ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 27-9-2016, the PKZ minutes of its meeting, on Tuesday 27 September 2016 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce Thursday, September 29, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1316/23-9-2016 of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the extension of the deadline for obtaining a doctoral degree for Apps Teachers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1311/21-9-2016 of the Congressman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the "inability to install the beneficiaries in the work houses located in the region of St. Ioannis Corfu’. 3. The Question No 1310/21-9-2016 by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the teaching of the lesson of religious. 4. The question by No. 1321/26-9-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about foreign-language school books that are on payment to all public high schools. 5. The 1313/22-9-2016 topical question of the reinstatement of the single book by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. 6. The question asked by the Member of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassiliou Kolkalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the urgent need to rescue the businesses and trades of the insured of the OAU who have chronic insurance debts, as well as the need to review the amount of the fine imposed on each undeclared worker. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 1309/21-9-2016, a topical question by Piratos II Pireos of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the treatment of interference in the municipalities of Piraeus, Perama, Korydalou, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Rentis. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1325/23-9-2016 by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the progress of the work of remote heating Florina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1323/26-9-2016 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the recognition of the sceptic passports called "Macedonia". 3. The question by No. 1314/22-9-2016 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on delays in the completion of three extremely important projects for the functioning of the IKA. 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the reopening of the Purification and Standardisation of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Argolis "Esperides". 5. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Commission of the European Communities, concerning passport visas with the words ‘Macedonia’. 6. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Health about the prospects for the more effective functioning of the Centre for Physics and Medical Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Karditsa. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Konstantinos Bargiotas, Member of the European Parliament, on the problems of mental health. 8. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Giokas under number 1284/19-9-2016 by Mr. Atticas of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Giokas, Minister for Health, concerning the enormous problems of the anti-drugs organizations. 9. The question, under number 1270/14-9-2016, is a topical question by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Health, on the staffing of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papagorgios". 10. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance about the scandalous sale of TRAINOSE against the incomplete price of EUR 45 million. 11. The question by No. 1300/20-9-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the flood protection of the Thessaloniki town complex. 12. The 1216/5-9-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on measures to absorb all children at the children's stations. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question under number 1250/12-9-2016 by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Union of Kentrons Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subscribing of the Technical Service of the Municipality of Arrianes of Rhodope Prefecture. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the decision of the Ambassador of Greece in Tehran to stop issuing any national travel visas for investors, corporate executives and financially independent individuals who want to engage in business. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 6379/438/23-6-2016 of the Greek Parliamentary of Athens, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the provision of mental health services by AMKE (Athens non-profit company) with the financing of the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that next Monday the Presidential Decree will be announced on the end of the session of the First Session of the Parliament. It will be followed at 11.00 a.m. sanctification for the start of the work of the Second Session by the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Jeronymou, and the members of the Continuous Sacred Synod. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that on Friday, October 7th at 13.30" at Parliament's plenary session, a special event will be held by the Permanent Committee on Morphic Affairs and the Subcommittee on Persons with Disabilities of the Special Permanent Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights for honor to members of the Greek National Mission who participated in the Rio Paralympic Games of 2016. The special event will enable athletes and their coaches to take the floor, just as we did for the Olympic Group, at the invitation of the two committees, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. His Excellency will be attended by the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, and, of course, we should all be present. I want to make a clarification. It was difficult to reach the date because it was not only the programme of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister at the same time, but mainly it was the reasonable and comprehensible difficulties in moving our athletes from the province, but also the difficulties in moving themselves. That's why we're on the ground floor and we're not going to the Senate Hall. Sportsmen from all over Greece should also come to this, and the House makes a donation for the expenses - which is why it is better for them to have in front of them this weekend. In any case, I would like to tell you that this is why we have delayed doing this honour after our very worthy athletes have returned from Rio. So next Friday, at 13:30, the event will take place. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on education. According to Rule 143(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and of the Chief of Staff, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of each hour. The length of speech by the Presidents of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Parliamentary Groups, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, the KE, the River, the Independent Greeks and the Central Association are twenty minutes of the time for each. That's the time for the first talk. The debate shall be held by up to two Ministers. The speaking time of the ministers is up to ten minutes of the hour. The time of the Minister's speech, which takes place at the stage of the main speeches or at the end of the speeches, shall be limited to half of the time allowed. In other words, if Mr Friend and Mrs Anagnostopoulou choose to intervene during the debate of the eight Heads of State or Government, their time will be half. Otherwise, it'll be ten minutes at the beginning, that is, the end of this cycle. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes of the hour and for 10 minutes of the hour the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. You know that in these debates there is a comfort in the debate and we will try to make sure that there is a set-aside in the seconds and, in any case, that there is a comfort in the opinion report. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate gives me a very good opportunity, before the issues of education, which are also the main theme of the meeting, to put a few things in place. It is, moreover, the first opportunity, after a long time, that we in Parliament should argue at the level of political leaders and take advantage of this opportunity, because unfortunately now the darkness of propaganda and the slander of the old political system and of the systemic means that it supports threatens to cover everything. And you know, the problem is, in the dark, as Hegel said, all cows look black. They look, but they're not. And ultimately we cannot allow some to cover the country in the dark because they want to give the impression that we are the same. We're not. We came to the government to put a definitive end to all the pathogens that brought us here. And you know, everything that has brought us so far has been self-government governments since post-population and then the catastrophic coexistence of the two parties for five years, from 2010 to 2015, during which we lost 25% of our national wealth, an insurmountable catastrophe. And we are here to finally get the country out of the crisis but with society upright and for the first time there are the conditions to do this. These days the cycle of the first assessment is finally closed and the green light will be given for the disbursement of EUR 2.8 billion which will be channelled to the real economy. All the evidence shows that not only are revenues going well and overpaid, but that we have already been at a positive growth rate since the third quarter of 2016, while in 2017 we expect positive growth, which will reach 3%. For the first time after years we have had a steady decline in unemployment, which, although unacceptably high, has been reduced by some four points since the day we took over from governance. The second assessment will be closed on time, and the debt issue for the first time is not a debate here, but it is debated at a pan-European and global level, and by the end of the year we are waiting for positive news from this front as well. Already yesterday, Commissioner Moscovici made it clear in his statement that by the end of the year we are awaiting an overall agreement with concrete measures for debt write-down. And these statements come only a few days after the Regling statements, which expressed the confidence that in 2017 Greece will be able to come out of credibility on the money markets. And that wasn't all on their own. It has been done hard, hard work, but at the same time with a constant concern for society and the weakest. We have managed to close the first and most difficult evaluation, effectively protecting the people with the protection of the first home, with the humanitarian crisis programme, which is constantly being renewed and concerns thousands of households, with the realisation of burdens, with constant care to support the social state. We also intend to do so in the context of the second evaluation. We will negotiate decisively so that the country has a modern institutional framework for protecting labour and workers, to restore collective bargaining, which the governments of the five-year period of the New Democracy and PASOK disaster have abolished in the previous period. We know, of course, that both in this battle, and not only in this battle, it will be across the street, as you have already come to support some of the most extreme positions among lenders. We remember your interview, Mr Mitsotakis, on American soil, I believe in spring and your recent speech in Thessaloniki, where you reiterated that you intend to renegotiate, to claim lower surpluses in exchange for sweeping structural reforms. And what it means in your language "reforms" I think all Greeks know it and remember it: redundancies, deregulation of the labour market, sale of public wealth and demolition of the social state. And that's exactly the difference between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u3	Please, restrain yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u4	And that's exactly the difference between us. For we are seeking the write-down of debt, which is, of course, entitled under an agreement, without providing creditors with the demolition of society, in contrast to the neoliberal New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis, who does not hide it from him that he has no problem with this demolition. And you know, it's not because creditors are asking for it, but it's mostly - and it's saying it clearly - because it's the core of your ideology. That is why you are once again against our negotiating effort to regain collective bargaining and broaden socially acquired assets. But first and foremost, you are across the internal front, in the great fight to finally break in this country the sinful triangle of interlocutory, a triangle that you have created for years now and that today you are entirely matched with it. For a month now, it has been played by the old political system and by systemic means the third act of a project that we have seen and have seen and been bored to see, the so-called 'left parenthesis'. You played your change in the period of credit suffocation, in the first period of governance that the country will be led to bankruptcy and you will end up with the SYRIZA and the popular mandate it had taken. You're disappointed. The referendum's here. The elections are here. The Greek people placed you in the position of counterpopulation and ordered us for four years to rule the place. You played the same bet last year in the first review. You played your change that you wouldn't close. You have again been defeated, unfortunately for you, but thankfully for the country. Now, try one more time. And you are of course trying to support and supported by them, who are for the first time called on to put their hand in the pocket, to pay, to pay, to be called, that is, to be equal to the laws, as all Greek citizens must be. But now, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Representation, you don't even have the pretexts. You've been out on the tiles to defend the darkest power network of the post-government period, the power network built by the canalarchs along with your banks and parties. You dare these days move the finger on the left, speaking of the moral advantage, of the parties who gave immunity to themselves to receive sea loans, of the parties themselves, and of the parties themselves, but also of the other half, of the parties - and I will remind you once again of the fact that we have no weak memory in this place - of the 'Siemens', of Christoforikos, of Chochazzopoulos, of the submarines, of CEDEFOP, of the intercepts, of the gang in Greek football and of all the other major scandals. You dare lift the finger. From the first second you did everything you could to cancel the competition for television licenses. You sabotaged the nomination of the National Broadcasting Council. You threatened ministers. You tried to manipulate justice. You are now threatening public officials who are conducting the tender procedure. You've reached the point where you can order the canalarchs, the ones who in the contest were declared successful and paid and paid for, that you'll turn the money back. 255 million euros were entered into the public funds at a time of crisis that Greek society and the Greek people need. And you not only do not have an apology to ask, which for twenty-seven years not only did you not get a penny from those who used public frequencies to protect yourself and you, but you have given them dedicated and air loans, as some in Parliament's committee confessed, not only do you have an apology to ask for, but you also want to return the money. And now that you see that the competition's on the move, you do what you can to redeem it. In the summer you were accusing us all of three months of having a set competition, so that Mr Alfouzouzou won't be allowed not to take leave of his "SKA" because he is projecting - and he is not the only one - anti-government news programs. That is what you said, and indeed your Vice-President had come out in a crescendo of self-determination and said: "I have information and information from ministerial offices that SKAI will not be allowed." And SKAI took first leave! Then he changed the trophy and you accused us that the contest was made not so that Mr. Alafuzos would not be allowed, but that Mr. Kalogris would be allowed to make SYRIZA TV. When Calogrits asked for a facilitation, he left the contest the next minute. He didn't get any permission. Because in this place - listen to it well - we'll all know first of all that the law applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u5	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u6	So there goes this candy. Now what do you have to say? Why did the contest take place?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u7	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u8	Is Mr. Sunday a SYRIZA? Did Mr. Marinakis or Mr. Savvidis become a SYRIZA too? Or is Mr. Alfouzo going to be a SYRIZA because he got permission? At some point, then, the arguments are over and at some point some answers have to be given. Because in your attempt to make black white, or rather white black, you also spoke of a allegedly big SYRIZA scandal in the banks. You have the courage to talk about SYRIZA scandal at the banks. You know, at the hanging house, it's good not to talk about rope, because no matter how much you look, you won't find SYRIZA and his government behind any loan. You will find yourself, the ones who kneeled down the country's banking system by sharing abundantly sea-loving right and left. And if you want to find loans without collateral, I would suggest you first look into your own books, for your own loans. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] New Democracy owes 200m euros and so much PASOK. And you want to believe that this is a loan and anguish! Soon, however, the conclusion of the committee of inquiry on loans to the media and political parties is coming. And then we'll see who's gonna laugh last. I'm telling you again: Whatever you do, your friends and protectors will go through the fund and pay! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I said and said again that this is for us a great intersection in the political system. After twenty-seven years, the broadcasting landscape is regulated in a way that is intact, transparent, where all documents are accessible, with a process of parallel checks, with lasting and continuous security controls, all of which have worked to ensure the public interest, because we have nothing to fear. After all, I said it ten days ago that any optimist can't respond and pay or justify his money will be cut off the next second, as it was. And do you know what our difference seems to be, ladies and gentlemen? We have nothing but to compare this procedure with a corresponding procedure carried out in the days of the New Democracy and the PASOK for television licences, with the digital spectrum contest. We secured 255 million, perhaps even more, for four television licenses, when you sold out the entire digital spectrum for 18 million euros, in a competition where 11 companies were not involved and finally nine, but a single company, in a competition where you made sure to exclude ERT, to give all of the digital spectrum to your friends and of course to a competition where not only were you asking for, but not even a responsible statement that they have the financial potential. I want to repeat something that bothers you very much and close. The 255 million are already being channelled to support our fellow citizens in need. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Already fifteen thousand more children will go to the nurseries this year. They've already started and it's a record number for the last few years. The process is beginning and will be completed by the end of the year to support hospitals with an additional four thousand nurses and a programme of support for young doctors is being drawn up. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I think, however, that I have dealt with the slandering, false and institutional aberrations of counter-population. I don't want to blame the debate. However, I would ask the President for a tolerance, because I had to make a reference. I shall be coming right to the debate on education, a debate of particular importance. Because it is a key role in the upgrading of education in the case of the recovery of the country and the definitive exit from the crisis. Because, as we have said many times, the crisis is not just economic. It is both a judgment of values and a judgment of spirituality. It is therefore necessary to compare data on education today. First of all, we need to talk about the orientation and quality of the education provided. The Greek society always appreciates the highest positions of its values of education. Do you know why this is happening? Because in our country the educational system was the most important mechanism for social mobility. It was the institution that allowed children of the worker, the farmer, the small craftsman to study, become scientists, to live better. It was public free education that broke social housing in our country. It upgraded the lives of millions of people and abolished in practice many privileges of the “purposemen”, of the heirs who had as basic provision not their skills, but the economic and social advantages of their family, their class position. Democrat access to knowledge - that is why we are talking - that is why it has fuelled the progress of the country and its development and not just economic development. Who can ignore the role of public education in involving masses in politics in the struggle for democracy? The reference to the polytechnic event alone would be enough. And we should always think that Greeks' mass access to education is a necessary condition for any change, because a good citizen is the fully informed citizen. And such a citizen of the 21st century now want to take off the Greek school, a citizen who, as Fernand Brodell told us, should understand not only what is going on next to him, but all the pages of the newspaper he reads, that is to say, he should be able to participate in all aspects of society. We say that students must be able to fully understand the reality that surrounds them, not to leave it themselves, but to want to change it, to bring it to the measures of their own dreams. I know that these positions may not be shared by all Parliament's wings or seem to be extremely idealistic by some of you. I think this is also empirically demonstrated, seeing the strategy implemented in recent years in our country in the field of education, a strategy - I will say it, despite the thick words - of degradation in the essence and reappointment of the public education system, as well as things that have been done by governments in recent years in the name of quality, reform, modernisation, merit and excellence. However, your works and your results say other things, because in my view you really are not with quality, but with specific interests in the field of education too. The huge reductions in funds have hit the quality of education, they have not upgraded it. The merges of schools have hit quality. The availability of PSA teachers, the abolition of popular guidelines has affected their quality and excluded children from the education who could not pay a private IEK, who too had to acquire customers. The availability of university employees has dismantled their administrative services and affected their quality. The poor working relationship between private schools and workers is affecting the quality of their work. The projects also tell you, but also on the issue of reforms. You're not really reformers. Your reforms, especially in tertiary education - and I am thinking in particular of those reforms that took place at the beginning of your co-operation - were reforms that concealed a specific peculiarism towards the public university and - to remember the homonymous theatrical work - a logic of 'Archduchoriat', because institutions councils at universities were bad copies of foreign structures, because they were not implemented in dialogue, but as an enforcement. That is not a reformist logic. We want education institutions and society with us, precisely because we want fundamental reforms that take root and not set up political careers on them. The works tell you, too, that you are not in creed, but in favor. The Foundation councils were rejected under political criteria and with questions of political opinion candidates' prerogatives. Even the Council of State has come to annul elections in universities due to irregularities. Is that your credentials? Your work also tells others, because you are not, as you have recently told us, the good public school, but in favour of general privatization, because your special relations with private schools owners have made you support the break-up of the work relationships of private schools teachers and together to deprive them of the guarantees they had to make their job unaffected. That is why we have restored these rights and the working framework of private teachers. Finally, you're not even with the excellence you're so projected, but you're with elitism. Another thing is excellence and elitism. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're with the expensive schools of a few. You are in favour of maintaining social discrimination. We are in favour of the quality education of equals - take care of the equals not of equal opportunities, which aim and define them as having the same effect. That is why we have made every effort and managed to keep funding for education, despite the fact that we had a budget of a softer, but adaptable, fiscal adjustment. While the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos had signed that in 2018, in other words, two years from now, the funds for education would fall to 1.8% of GDP, we kept them to 2.8%. Not that it's a high percentage, but at least we held it back. And, of course, I would remind you that everything you announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition - and you probably do not hide it - obviously, to be implemented, requires new cuts in education in total of 800 million. Where are you going to get them from? I would like to say something else on this point, ladies and gentlemen. You who are walking around the European costume, you who from Europe are leaving aside the enlightenment and struggles of the peoples of Europe and, above all, are referring to the regulatory framework of austerity and the rules in recent years, I want you to tell us which European country would give 1.8% of its GDP to education and would like to be called European? Ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen to move into a process of reform of education, in difficult conditions, but in the most correct way, not with the head down and feet above. That is why we have chosen to put pressure first on the educational system, on the educational system's feet, on the school, on the primary school, rather than on the practice of starting the changes from the upper level for the purpose of impression and communication. Our aim is to create a school for all and for all, which will provide equal opportunities and does not broaden class and cultural differences, a school of public, free, democratic, humanistic, highlighting children's talents and skills and does not level them, which will encourage the collective improvement and collective progress of students. We believe it to be deeply: no one is excelling themselves. Everyone is relying - whether they recognize it or not - on things that have emerged as collective work, on knowledge, on infrastructure, on culture. We don't ignore anyone's personal trouble. Alas. We want a school that gives everyone the chance to be excellent. And we have already made specific contributions. First and foremost, we restored normality in our schools after more than seven years. All schools this year for the first time opened without shortages in books and teachers. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It was the first time that so many recruitments were made, so early, even in the most humiliating villages, even in our most distant islands. The first time the schools started directly with an exotic program. And you know, no matter how much you want to hide these, society understands them, because it sends its children and sees what happens. It's the first time our books school started in place. Twenty-four million books from mid-summer are in all our schools. We didn't once again share photocopies this year. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] One more thing. This year the law giving priority to recruitment in the highly sensitive area of special education, totalling nine thousand teachers, was first implemented. We want these children, too, with special learning needs, to be proud of themselves. We want their own parents to be happy and watch them progress. That's why we make sure these kids can even make a professional high school so they can be creative and live a life of their own, not a life borrowed and dependent on others. We also apply the full-day kindergarten. We have more parts and even fewer toddlers in every department since last year. We've moved on to the generalization of the new type of full-day school. Now not only 1/3 of primary school, but all schools will be able to operate as full-time, enriched with new courses. Therefore, we are not simply abolishing the whole day, as the New Democracy accused us of, but expanding them and upgrading them. And speaking of school, let me refer to this point and to the issue that has been very wrong in the current situation, the issue of Religiouss. The lesson of Religiouss can no longer be of a confession. In no other European country is this happening. However, neither his hours of choice are reduced nor a basic reference to the Orthodox Christian doctrine is lost. And how could it, after it is the sovereign in our country and decisive in the formation of our modern cultural identity? However, the lesson of Religiouss in schools - especially in our time, which in our schools do not only teach children of a doctrine or religion - must make students first to understand religion as an aspect of social reality. I want to make it clear that the responsibility for the content of teaching lies with the Institute for Educational Policy, which must of course take into account all aspects of it, but above all it must take into account the principles of educational science and theology. This year, then, in our schools, the new analytics programmes will be launched, which the Institute for Education Policy concluded after a long dialogue. This does not mean that dialogue will not continue. At the end of the year, any observations and corrections will be evaluated and recorded, so that the writing of the appropriate schoolbook can begin. In this debate the views of the Church are obviously welcome, but the final crisis will be made - and I want to believe in a spirit of composition and understanding - by the Institute for Educational Policy. We respect the Church. We recognize its undeniable presence in the consciousness of our people in the course of his history. But we are talking with her in a spirit of respect and discreet roles. Today we especially recognise the majority of the hierarchs - in the majority, I repeat - the important role they have played in the refugee issue. Our understanding is based on us at the beginning of their religious neutrality, not of the people, but of the state as an institution. And we expect with interest to hear openly here today what position all the parties take, all the political wings, all the supporters of the liberal agenda on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the changes at the base of our educational system and with the changes we are planning in high school. We're changing school-centered character. We define that the promotional examinations will not take place in so many lessons anymore, so that the school will be a "examination wing", but will only take place in four lessons. And to what children don't succeed, we will immediately offer them additional reinforcement teaching and re-examinations in fifteen days. And that's not because we're in the sense of minor effort and populism, as we're accounted for by anti-population officials, but because for us, children are unthinkable at this delicate high school age, learning that the value of knowledge is to succeed in innumerable repressive tests. Perhaps your own ideal for school was that, that is, the school of children who are not happy, who do not learn to love learning, to love knowledge, of children who lose their adolescence in a school who wants to do it all the same. For us, however, this is not the ideal school. We continue the dialogue and have received the findings of the National Dialogue Committee. We have also taken those of the Parliament's Committee on Morphic Affairs, which have even achieved a broad consensus - which is rare today - and with the anti-population forces, something that we sincerely welcome. And we will continue the dialogue directly at the National Education Council. One of our main objectives is to reach a system that will lead students and students to the university, without the terrible and extremely stressful crisis of the pan-Hellenic exams, a system aimed at exempting high school from being a well-being for the pan-Hellenic exams and giving him an autonomous educational role. We know that this is not easy, but it must be an objective that we will strive to implement. The main objective is the new school to allow children to detect their real gradients and, in the final analysis, to study what they want to study and not what they need to study. I believe that then we will also be able to strike this phenomenon of eternal students, because you have been accusing us for years of this. It's not a question of cutting off eternal students. The question, in my view, is not to give birth to the university eternal students. And you know, this, first of all, we will be able to achieve it by changing the exam system, the "rule" system of the pan-Hellenic exams, which pushes students to become students in universities that do not love the knowledge that is being taught there. We will do something, of course, to eliminate this phenomenon and before the test system changes. Already two thousand undergraduate students will receive from this year's grants from between EUR 400 and EUR 520 per month for a four-year period, so that, at least for those who are extremely competent, they do not have the financial capacity and are forced to abandon their studies to work to live, to give the opportunity to study. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] At the same time, we are launching a program of accommodation for poor students in apartments belonging to the Greek State and we are planning competitions to build new student homes at last. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this government guarantees that in this country anyone who has the ability to study will now also have the opportunity to study. We'll be right next to him. The Greek state will be right next to him. It will be next to all children, because the Greek people and these sacrifices must not be lost. And for these children who, with the blood and sacrifices of the Greek people, are studying, who have the dream, the noble ambition to stay in this country and work here to get us all up a little higher, we are doing something else: we give this year 81 million euros for scholarships for doctoral and postdoctoral studies, so that young scientists can stay here. We founded the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Technology, which will be the new important tool for the scientific research and economic development of the site, as well as for the creation of the single area of education and research. And we give this year, in a time of crisis, EUR 240 million over the next three years, in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, in order to finance the plans and dreams of the scientists in that country, so that we can escape from the 'brain drain' logic and go to the 'brain gain' logic, that is to say not to lose mind, but to win minds, go back or stay in the country, not to leave other scientists highly qualified, the most important potential to rebuild the country on its feet. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In order to do this, there is also a need for a radical strengthening of the potential of higher education and research. That is why, for the first time in six years, there is finally the recruitment of members of the LAGs at universities and TEIs, five hundred last year and another five hundred this year. That's why we're giving a hundred new research posts to the research centres. I think it's an important start. At the same time we are taking all the necessary steps to strengthen the general budget of the HEIs, for the Greek universities, which in all measurements - even if there are many questions about the criteria for these measurements - are - be careful - at the top 5% globally. And this is done despite the cuts and thanks to the valuable and hard work of the people of the Greek public university, professors, researchers, administrative staff, even young doctors, who have so far taught some lessons free of charge, in order to obtain teaching experience and, since this year, we have also predicted for them to take a retreat. The public university is, for both Greece and Europe, the core of the production of knowledge and innovation. And they will do well to remember that those who are defenders of the view that private universities should be set up at all costs in the country. You know, the top universities, on a global scale, are public. The private universities - we tell you that because your Europeanism again proves to be partly hollow or unilateral - is not a European tradition. The large network of strong universities is public, where each state in Europe kept them as an eyewitness and invested in them. But you have not learned that. You have executives, you have Vice-Presidents running behind public events by private educational institutions and say that private - whatever form - are more than public universities in quality, discrimination and transparency. And when such private institutions are accused of huge debts, even of felony, like that of forgery, and the Ministry of Education suspends their operation, you can't say a single word. Those who promote private universities as a panacea have wondered why our graduates from the Greek public university, so enthusiastic, our graduates with doctoral, master or simply graduates, are so wanted everywhere in Europe? Why are so many scholarships received in European and American universities? Why do our own scientists manage and qualify for European competitive research programmes, bringing in their foundations, but also in their country, tens of millions of euros each year? Why are our own researchers active members of so many international research centres? So nothing good will have done this afflicting Greek public university, which you have slandered so much over the years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So we're moving on. We bring a law on postgraduate and doctorals, which is immediately filed and puts a definitive end to an anarchist landscape of merchandise in education. Here it is important to broaden the link between Greek public universities and foreign universities and to make Greece appealing to the large number of foreign students and researchers who follow postgraduate and doctoral studies. It is, of course, in our plans to strengthen such programmes from the Greek IOI and TEI, and the next period we will be able to identify the resources to be made available by an institution to support and create such programmes. And it is precisely this policy, the support of the public university and public research centres, which can be the driving lever of what we call 'fair growth'. Because - and let us not forget - the most fundamentally competitive advantage for the country is, after all, human capital, its people, its high qualifications. And this advantage must be cultivated in order to build a productive model based on high added value, innovation and quality, not on low wages and on the collapse of the social majority, as the neoliberal New Democracy envisions. We don't want the 1/3 society, the elite and the plenipotentiary. We want a society of universal prosperity, justice and equality. We support these principles in our efforts to make major educational reform, but an educational reform, which is not a moment or a bill, but will be a lasting process. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to close with only two references. One report is for the people of our educational system, teachers, teachers, researchers, workers. All of them and them today would like to thank you, because 'every kind of man's money'. And their measure is - we know - very high. In very difficult conditions, these six years and by meek means, with very low wages, do what they need to support the most important thing, our education, our culture. These people we want to work with. We recognize their struggle, it's our fight. The second reference is the most dynamic and sensitive factor in education, children, what education must fill primarily with joy and inspiration, with love for knowledge and not only with commitment and stress. For children, then, I will remind you, by closing a few words by a great writer, Halil Gibpran, that are equal words to our own ideal for education and that we want to accompany the work of teachers and parents. So Gibpran said: “Children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of the longing of life for herself. You can give them your love, but not your thought, because they have their own thoughts. You can try to look like them. But don't try to make them look like you, because life doesn't go back or stay in yesterday." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one visitor from the Foundation "TheotokOS" in Ilioon Attica. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is held by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Tsipras, you have spent twenty minutes of your speech to make general references to the current political situation. As I listened to you, I thought maybe your accountant must've got the speeches involved. He gave you a speech you had made three months ago. It seems that you have not taken note of what has happened in the last month in the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have heard nothing about Mr. Kalogritsa, about the Attica Bank, about the new triangles of interlocutory which are being built. You have passed all this, as if it were completely indifferent. Well, let's make it clear from the beginning: you don't come to this room as a prosecutor. You are apologising, Mr Tsipras, for the issues of transparency and transparency. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if you want to discuss these issues, don't take valuable time from a debate on education. Come in tomorrow morning on a pre-dated debate, talk about the issues of interlocutory. If I remember correctly, the last time you caused such a debate, it had not taken you very well. So here we are going to discuss this again, Mr Tsipras. But society, which listens to us today, is much more interested in how to get better schools and much less about how you control the landscape of the media. And that's what I'll talk to you about today. And I won't be tempted to disorient the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u11	Please be very quiet. No comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, education should be a field of national understanding, because - and I imagine you will all agree - the future of our children cannot be the subject of small-party conflicts. The last tragic anniversary of the murder of Paul Bakoyannis reminded us how necessary it is in public life that the possibility of opposing our differences is and serving national good. I have a very vivid picture of this House on that tragic day, a parliament that, as a whole, the political leadership has found the courage to raise an impediment to democracy. But, of course, then in the House and in the leadership of the Left was Charilaos Florakis and Leonidas Kourkos, today is Alexis Tsipras and Nikos Pappas. Then the Left had a credible political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u13	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u14	Wait, gentlemen. Except for the Communist Party. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I understand that these comparisons are annoying. Today he has a lead without values, with only a view to maintaining power at all costs. And, unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, and education has become a tool to serve only this purpose. My aim today, ladies and gentlemen, is to highlight the extent of the disaster that is taking place in the sensitive area of education by a deeply ideological government, but also to talk about the main axes of our own policy, about how we will finally have better public schools and universities. The aim of Mr Tsipras is to divide into education as well. Our aim is to unite the Greeks into a common vision of education, not with lies and ideas, but with truth and realism. Ladies and gentlemen, in the soft revolt of Greek society in the field of education, there is a very systematic strategy for erosion and degradation of all the important reforms that have been taken in recent years, a strategy that throws away the most important acquis that has been hard to achieve and through political excesses, often painful, the fact that we have managed to transform, Mr Tsipras, finally, education into a field of consensus rather than a retreat. When the New Democracy in August 2011, as opposition then, decided to vote for Law 4009-the so-called Diamantopoulou law - not just voted in favour of a bill, but decided to finalise the page of education as a micro-party confrontation area in Greece. And despite the individual disagreements - which existed within our party - and despite the experience of our party with the 'Giannakou law', which was then fought by the opposition, the New Democracy then sought wider consensus. I want to take this opportunity - it is not customary - to welcome to the Chamber this Marietta Giannakou, a great fighter of the party, a politician who has served with passion and braveness her ideas. [[Applause]] So the New Democracy in August 2011 made a very bold step, a great step, to support a framework of bold changes that modernised the way the universities operate - of course, the 'Law of Diamantopoulou', and I would like to stress this, was the continuation of the interventions and proposals made by Marietta Giannakus - and restored common sense to an area that was as afflicted as anyone else by ideologies and claws. In simple terms, the New Democracy then had the courage to do what was useful to the place and not necessarily beneficial to the party. Ladies and gentlemen, it took a few months to prove in practice that it is much easier to tear down than building. And in the global open knowledge society, you, Mr. Tsipras, respond with Greece of despair. People change at speed. Technology redefined the way economic and social relations are organised. Traditional professions disappear, new are created at an unprecedented speed, in the field of education, a revolution is taking place worldwide. Everyone now recognizes that knowledge and skills are the only supply that one can have to distinguish himself in a world that is changing rapidly. I have not heard anything about all this, Mr Tsipras, in your speech. Instead of looking forward, you with passion still look back. You mentioned Halil Gibpran and the future of the children. But you bring education back to the '80s. What future are we talking about here? What you're doing is a radical return to the past! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ignore the darkest practices of other times when education was a field of ideological conflict and microparticular exercise. And your past, Mr. Tsipras, is chasing you and you can't get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u15	Be quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u16	In addition, Mr Tsipras was distinguished as the leader of the conquests of academic institutions and public spaces. That's how he became acquainted! That's how he got the first political parchment! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I understand that we are all, Mr. Tsipras, to some extent, a product of our experiences. And honestly, I don't care about the choices you made as a student and as a student. But what I find really incomprehensible about a young man is that you have forgotten nothing of what you have done and have unfortunately not learned anything along the way. The same scratched vinyl of the 1980s we still hear, the same clichés of slogans that went beyond history, little effort, a downward equation, client-partism, anxiety, sprinkled with a few revolutionary gymnastics, occupations and all that. This is the ideological admiration on which you base your own policies. Of course, in other sectors of the economy, you may be forced, under pressure from the memoranda you signed yourself, to apply liberal policies. You obviously don't believe them, so you're just pretending you're implementing them. In education, however, you are neither pretending nor pretending. There is absolutely no suspension here. And, of course, you have also chosen the appropriate Minister for this purpose, because in fact Mr. Friends has all the qualifications required to level the concepts of excellence, philosophicalism and merit. Ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever the country needs an educational system at its core: everyone deserves their chances. Indeed, here I will agree with Mr Tsipras. Public education must be the main mechanism for social mobility, because in the field of public education they demand opportunities and children at a disadvantage, whether they are economically or socially. Be careful, opportunities, effort, excellence, Mr. Tsipras, three concepts simple, which must be at the core of every modern educational policy, three concepts that unfortunately do not exist in your vocabulary, because in your own deformed view of the world these concepts have a class mark. After all, your ideological guide, Mr Baltas, has warned us from the first days of your administration: excellence is a retreat. And when there is no excellence, natural development, ladies and gentlemen, is equality. And, of course, a society is falling far more easily in the hands of every passive demagogue. Undermining excellence is the safest energy of leveling education. And in that sense, the major faculty of promotion is student activism, not hard work and scientific adequacy. Once - I remember it in my own years - the Left advised its members to be first in the courses and first in the games. I guess you'll remember. But you think that the success of the former is at the expense of the latter and of the indifferent. To make it clear to you, therefore, once and for all, Mr Tsipras, a favoured state must offer its children equal opportunities at the start of the struggle of life. Where to get one depends on one’s talent, it depends on hard work, often on luck itself. Let's get this straight. Excellence is a attitude of life, ladies and gentlemen, which triggers the virtues of every human being with a view to its continued progress. He's not just the best student. He is excellent for every young man who is constantly trying to improve and constantly learn. And this excellence, the current government of mediocrity, half-heartedness and favorability cannot express it. And that is why, finally, through your interventions, you avenge Greece of knowledge, which is why you ultimately undermine public education, the public school, the public university, the only refuge of the least privileged, in order to escape their children from tolerance and poverty. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, your policy represents all the pathogens that Greece must finally leave behind to move forward. So to become a little more specific: Ladies and gentlemen, from January 2015 until today, the government unilaterally adopted more than a hundred regulations, which have dismantled all levels of education. And not according to our data, but with the report of the European Monitoring Centre for Education and Training of 2015, I read: "The Greek education system at all its levels has returned in the previous 2010 period, abolishing significant reforms in recent years." We don't. The European Observatory says so. I am tabling this report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I could really speak for hours, Mr Tsipras, highlighting the damage that is done daily in the sensitive area of education by our ideological and conflicting governors. For the economy of the debate, however, I shall refer to the eight most critical of your speeches. Those who have practically demonstrated that in the area of public education a very specific plan is being put in place for the degradation of all the positive reforms that have been carried out in recent years. I am starting from primary and secondary education, which: First, Mr Tsipras, you have abolished all the islands of excellence in public school, standards and experimental schools, essentially pilot schools. They were annulled once the Ministry abolished the import examinations. And I wonder: Did the talented, hard-working student not in this way lose an opportunity to strengthen his skills and pursue excellence through public education? How much left after all is it, Mr. Tsipras, to deny the possibility of a worthy young child going to a good public school? Because, indeed, the children of the middle-class or northern suburbs, yes, have the opportunity to go to a private school and have the opportunity to have access to both schools and private courses. The children of the poor family why did you deny them the opportunity to go to an excellent school and to distinguish themselves on the basis of their skills and excellence? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, in this way, you who are outraged, just talk to the teachers of the pilot schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u17	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u18	Let's talk to them a little, see how Mr. Philis and Mr. Tsipras canceled the excellent work that had been done in these schools, which, among other things, included the evaluation of educational staff, which was carried out without any difficulty. That's why you probably broke up. Because you have allergies in every sense of evaluation. At the same time, of course, you have also undermined the primary school through the abolition of the Single Reformed Educational Programme. You said, Mr. Tsipras, it was about 35% of schools. What you did not say was that it was about 65% of the school population and the hours of the compulsory timetable were finally reduced. And instead of saying that we're gonna come over here and upgrade the remaining 35%, what did you do? You also undermined this 65%. I had the opportunity, Mr Tsipras, to go and talk to such schools and discuss with the teachers and discuss with the children. Teachers, in fact, at first had difficulty embraced the concept of this Single Reformed Programme. However, in the course of the program, the program gained confidence. You talked about creation and about the possibility of expressing children in another way, but you have effectively abolished the most creative hours of the Single Reformed Programme, in a logic that children are suffering them, we are tiring them and we must have them less hours at school. This, unfortunately, is your modern understanding of primary education. However, you have not only confined yourself to primary education. You lowered both high school and high school. You did mention Mr Philly's speeches, but, Mr Tsipras, it was three days before the school year began. A little weird, isn't that? And it was done without any consultation, without any dialogue, by choosing on your own criteria four lessons with which the high school students will be examined from now on. Is that exactly how you understand, Mr Tsipras, the concept of educational reform? The substance is one. You turn high school into an automatic promotion school. No one wants a school of inquiries, but it is quite different to send the message of a minor effort to students and this general impression that "as bad as you are, you will automatically pass from one class to another". It is a mistake to send this message, and unfortunately you are sending it to high school in the same systematic and methodical way. You abolished the theme bank, abolished the calculation of the average for promotion and dismissal of all classes of high school for admission to the EMI. The theme bank was a prerequisite, so that there could be an equal treatment of all pupils, and at the same time, of course, you also restored the basis of '9.5' - an overall average - for promotion from one class to the other. As an experienced teacher has told me, the only way you don't have to go through class today is to apply yourself. Is that what you want, Mr. Tsipras, really? Is that the high school? Is that the message we need to send to our children? In a world that is changing rapidly, in a world that is most important to reward hard work, this message you want to send to our children? But, of course, the third very great damage you have done is to bring back partyism and trade unionism - not only communism but also unionism - in the choice of senior members of primary and secondary education. We have had a great deal of discussion on the criteria with which you have appointed regional training directors. I do not have to go back to this. But even worse is the fact that the criterion for the selection of school and primary and secondary school managers is the vote on the school club. This way, Mr Tsipras, is finally chosen as a director not the best, but the best. I don't know how you understand the concept of administration, but the idea of the existing ones voting for the supervisor is not at least in line with our adequacy system. Fourthly, you have also reached the level of private education. Because instead of trying, Mr Tsipras, to upgrade the public school, what you are doing - and you are doing so systematically and with a deep ideological empathy - it is to get private school short. 8% of pupils today attend private schools, a significant number. Several families choose from their misfortune to send their children to a private school, because they have this free right to choose, for which this party will always fight. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that's not all we do. A lot of people do it. And what are you doing, Mr. Tsipras? You practically psalmize all the advantages that a private school has. What are you doing? The possibility of a worthwhile response to educational staff. Don't you think it makes sense to me, Mr. Tsipras, that in a private school the address will not have any chance at all to replace a teacher who doesn't pay? Do you consider that reasonable? Is this work protection, or is it ultimately undermining the quality of services provided to the private school? And why are you finally excluding private schools from the possibility of implementing a more extended programme? Why is that bothering you? Why can't a private school who wants to offer more opportunities to his students to do so? So you have reached the standards of experimental schools and now you come to level private schools. Fifth, you've frozen every sense of evaluation. You remove all concepts of evaluation and worthyness throughout the education structure, in the name of a supposedly ideal equality. Because for you the retreat of excellence was not ultimately a verbal exaggeration, but it was the core of a established perception. But everywhere, in all the favoured states, the sovereignty and the evaluation of educational and educational systems is the basic tool for their own upgrading. Everything is evaluated and that's the only way they're improving. Because we cannot judge the value of an educational process or an educational system unless there are objective evaluation criteria. You did not mention in your speech once the word 'assessment'. Because that is the only way we can really compare, and that is the only way we can improve. But in Greece the minor effort of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Friends all this is obviously unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, where the government has overcome itself is in tertiary education. I only mention three examples. First, Mr. Tsipras, bring back the eternal students. The Government has allowed, even to those who had been deleted, the provisions of Law 4009 to acquire the right to re-registration. And here really, Mr. Tsipras, I raise my hands up. Why should a person who proves not interested in completing his studies should remain registered in a university? I think I have the explanation, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Friend, as an eternal student, he decided to get his degree! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] But that is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u19	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u20	It is not enough to send a message of ovulation to the students: "It's okay, take as much time as it takes to complete your studies." The right to free education, which is paid free of charge by the Greek taxpayer, must also be accompanied by the obligation to complete the studies within a reasonable period of time. And because I heard something from you about students working, I know too many students who are studying and working at the same time in difficult circumstances and finishing their studies, ladies and gentlemen. And they're finishing it on time. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Well, leave that argument because all over the world and in America students with large loans work and work at the same time to fulfil their obligations. Well, eternal students are students who are basically not interested in completing their studies. In a society that at the same time must respect rights, but also explain to the citizens that there are obligations and that this practice cannot be tolerated. Secondly, what you want to do in higher education: you have effectively abolished the institution councils. Mr. Tsipras, I had the opportunity a week ago to meet with some thirty presidents, vice presidents and members of the HEI and TEI Boards. I heard their stories. I have heard their complaint, because this effort has been discredited in a provocative way, which they themselves have done unselfishly, without being paid. The Foundation councils were formed by significant personalities from Greece and abroad, by well-known teachers, Greek and foreigners, an international reputation. Several people came from abroad. They came four times a year, at their own expense, to participate in these institution councils. You deceive them, too. Why do you deceive them, Mr. Tsipras? Are you so disturbed by the independent voices? Do we have the luxury at the Greek university of kicking out a Bertsima, a Nehama, a Jack Davis, who did the important excavations at Pylos? Are we being spared, Mr. Tsipras, at last, by those people whom you systematically devalued? At a time when the public university must be opened in the world, it must become international contacts, you close it in your own small world. The third example of what you want to do in public education is the launching through the unacceptable project which you have put into public consultation, the abolition of postgraduate programmes. You really did consult - and I studied it very carefully - a bill of abortion. Does the university authorities deny the possibility of setting up such programmes, do you transfer all the powers to the Ministry of Education - as if it has not already enough in a centralised system - to directly affect the autonomy and self-interest of universities and at the same time to put a very low ceiling on the tuition fees of postgraduate programmes, so that you lack valuable resources from whom, I wonder? From the public university itself. Postgraduate was a public university success story in the last 15 years. Do you know why it was a success story? Because in the postgraduate studies the public university was indeed released from the state's suffocating control. Can I also tell you something about the tuition fees, Mrs. Secretary, where are you stirring your head in contemptuously? You will understand at some point that the value of a postgraduate is judged by the market itself and not by you with Soviet-type approaches.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u21	You're very welcome. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u22	If a postgraduate charges too much, it just won't find students, Mr. Tsipras, and the program won't survive. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u23	Do you do sociology for everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u24	So enough, Mr Tsipras, with State intervention in an area in which the universities were distinguished. Didn't you hear the campus' reactions? Did you discuss with the managers about the postgraduate situation? What exactly do you want to achieve? The absolute level of downwards - unfortunately - in this area too. I will no longer go on listing examples of a government that has turned all of its ideologically repellent ideologically into education. I will only say this: In this blind course of conflict you have chosen, it would obviously not be possible for the Church of Greece to stay outside. Look, let's say things clearly, Mr. Tsipras. No one has any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u25	You're welcome. Why are you interfering? Objections and opinions are set out. Please. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u26	So no one has any objection to the need to develop the lesson of Religious and its adaptation to modern data, nor to the Church, Mr. Tsipras, but this must be done after a study, never in the face of the fact that Orthodoxy is part of our collective consciousness and identity. But the truth is another, Mr. Tsipras. The lesson of Religiouss was simply an opportunity to initiate another conflict, which, unfortunately, only concerns the small world of your components. I had the opportunity a few minutes before entering the Chamber to receive a 15-page letter from the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece. I don't know if you had a chance to read it. I guess she sent it to you, too. I want to read two passages from this letter, because I think it is very useful. "The Church of Greece, in the field of its religious mission, does not represent the religious majority of the inhabitants of that country? We therefore address the political leadership of the country as a social group, a unity of clergy and people on a matter of religious education, which concerns us." Another sentence: "In any case the Church is not behind the Constitution. The relationship between the Greek people and the Orthodox faith is an active collective experience with historical depth, for which the clergy are primarily responsible, and is not enforced by legal rules." I would like you to answer and tell me if you agree with what the Archbishop says, because the Archbishop also says something else in his letter, that no substantial dialogue was held here with the HR. A unique meeting claims the Archbishop was held on the issue of Religiouss. So you have chosen this to launch another blind conflict, which is completely meaningless, which divides the people and which ultimately offends the Church itself. You continue and support a minister who brutally offends the Church of Greece with his unscrupulous aggression. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the New Democracy reform is the first political priority. We will have the opportunity in the next few weeks to present our programming positions in detail. But today, I want to talk about the main lines of our policy. Our logic, our choice is summarized in the dual free school and autonomous university, schools and universities that will stop suffocating from the Ministry of Education, but will be supervised productively and with quality criteria that will put the citizen first, that is, the student and the student first and not the representative bureaucrat of the Ministry. We often speak as a space for the concepts of autonomy, evaluation and excellence, and these concepts have their own special meaning in our own philosophy of education. Autonomous. Because if both school units and universities are autonomous and institutionalised, the reality is that the educational system in our country is the most centralised in Europe. It is the strengthening of autonomy which ultimately increases the role of schools, the role of universities, the role of teachers and the role of administrative staff. But without evaluation, there cannot be autonomy, because decentralisation and autonomy in no way can be identified with immunity, anxieties and the absence of control. On the contrary, the evaluation must be carried out in an organised manner and using all the modern techniques available to us, ensuring the correct and efficient functioning and quality of the education provided. And, of course, the evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be voluntary nor can it be stripped of interventions to encourage and reward additional effort, but cannot be stripped of any corrective intervention through training, where delays are observed. And finally, I will return to the misunderstood concept of excellence. We have also been accused today by the Prime Minister of being fascinated by the concept of excellence in the logic of elitism, social davorism, of the few. But excellence is not about the few. It's about a lot of people. It concerns school, the university as real social mobility mechanisms, individual progress and advancement mechanisms, as has always been the case in our country. And when we talk about public education with the logic of excellence, that is what we mean: access, mobility, the creative momentum upwards, the family overruns that all families want to do for the future of their children. We, Mr Tsipras, do not want everyone to equate downwards. We want to climb up as much as possible and this is the basic ideological difference of a liberal centre-right party from your Left. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about reform in education, we automatically think about the public university. This is where the essence of public dialogue usually focuses. However, the heart of education strikes in public school, kindergarten, primary school, and of course all start with preschool education. Why am I particularly standing in pre-school education, ladies and gentlemen? Because all the studies show that children who do not have access to pre-school treatment, children who do not go to a nursery then have much more chance of developing learning difficulties. In other words, inequality shapes very early in a child’s life. And that's why I repeat my commitment that with a New Democracy government no child will be found out of child station. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We need schools other than what we have today. We need schools with dedicated teachers and teachers, with much greater freedom to manage their teaching work, with curricula that produce real skills and not sterile papaya. And all international studies show that the difference in the quality of education is not mainly made by infrastructures or by the size of the class - it is not minor data - but the real difference is made by the quality of teachers and teachers. And we have a duty today to show the role of the teacher and the professor, to honour their contribution to the public school, but at the same time to evaluate their work. Separate and reward the good. To train the least good, not by training seminars, but by practical exercise in the classroom. At the heart of our proposal for a genuinely qualitative revolution in primary and secondary education lies the concept of a new school, which should, in fact, reassess everything we know about the way schools operate in our country today. We will insist: a uniform formula for all schools, but based on the single reformed education programme. You know well that the full - time school has facilitated very important hardworking parents. But even more importantly, the upgraded program enabled children to become acquainted with very important cognitive objects such as computer and English, but also to become acquainted with new cognitive objects such as music, theatrical treatment and arts. The truth is, these free zones, which the Ministry restricts, for primary children themselves, were the most interesting part of school. And unfortunately, this is exactly what you are undermining and limiting their scope. We are committed, ladies and gentlemen, to immediately reintroducing pilot schools as islands of excellence, innovation and modern pedagogical approaches. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will impose absolute dignity on the selection of the thirteen regional directors and their selection will be made by the AACC, as will the AACC set out specific specifications for the selection process of school managers. Of course, the most important thing is that we will give the schools themselves more flexibility to get away from the tyranny of the suffocating timetable. It is time, of course, to finally discuss the possibility of teachers and teachers to choose the school book that suits them most from an approved list. Vocational guidance must be reintroduced in schools, but not as it has been done so far, a sterile formal process, but with the development of really specialized programmes - we have all the know-how to do so - which will identify gradients and skills but also take into account the students' real preferences. Yes, we believe that entrepreneurship should finally be taught in schools. Break that taboo, too. We will also set up model professional high-schools in representative areas of the country, professional high-schools working with public-private enterprises. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we agree at least on this - to change and break the social stereotypes, which are today around vocational education. In our country - and you know, I imagine - only 20% of pupils go to vocational education, when in other European countries this rate exceeds 50%. Unfortunately, vocational training is stigmatized today. It is not linked to professional advancement and progress, and it is usually the shelter of the less well-being students. And this stereotype must be broken. Of course, we must - and we will do so - free private education from the peculiar ties of stateism, but we will also ask private schools to provide more grants to poor and talented children by providing them with specific tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the matter of universities. No debate on higher education can be held unless it focuses on changing Article 16 of the Constitution. Article 16, you know that very well, has traditionally been the totem of the anti-reformists in our country and the reaction to any debate on Article 16 is revealing. It reveals too many hypocrisy because, as you well know, Greece already recognizes the diplomas of universities from other European Union countries. So it is acceptable today that someone should be a private university graduate, who has an annex to Greece, provided that this is not Greek interests. And when will we finally tolerate this hypocrisy? And why, ladies and gentlemen, should we not be able to turn our country into a regional higher education centre, attracting considerable investment and creating tens of thousands of jobs? Cyprus did it, Turkey did it. Why should we remain committed to these strangles? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And allow me to make a historical reference to this issue. You know, Greece has not always been the 'black sheep' of the international educational community. The new Greek state when it was created was not considered to create a state monopoly in higher education. It is worth reading to you what, Mr. Tsipras, the Constitution of 1864, Article 16 of the Constitution of 1864: "It is permitted for private individuals and legal persons to establish private training establishments operating under the Constitution and the laws of the State". One hundred and fifty-two years later, Mr. Tsipras, we are still talking about returning to self-evidently!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u27	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the Revision of the Constitution, there are many interventions which can be made directly and the role of the public university upgraded. Some of them concern the reintroduction of the provisions of Law 4009 with the necessary improvements. Others go far beyond the framework of the law, as it was passed in 2011. For example: Direct adoption of the bodies and internal regulations of the HEIs, including the legal persons of private law, so that Law 4009 operates in practice; the designs are in the drawers of your Ministry. Restoration of the functioning and strengthening of the institution boards as an essential step in the necessary accountability and internal supervision of the administration. Discussion on the possibility of setting the annual number of admissions - universities and TEIs - by the institutions themselves, which should finally have the first reason in the actual number of admitteds and should not be systematically circumvented by the Ministry. The promotion of Greece in an international educational service centre with the establishment of many foreign-language undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Greater connection between education and research and the production process - I have heard nothing about all this from Mr Tsipras - and finally reduce the real skills gap in the labour market. Incentives to the possibility of cooperation between universities and start-ups, concerning applied research and marketing of new ideas, things being done all over the advanced world. Organizing summer schools from the institutions themselves. Discussion about a new academic map with incentives for the creation of clubs and the creation, finally, of a climate economy in infrastructure. Of course, continuous periodic and systematic evaluation of all curricula by a strong independent authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with these remarks: these proposals I have presented today are just some indicative proposals from the whole programme that we will implement in the field of education as the future government of the country. They are proposals that we would be prepared to discuss today as an Opposition if the government could really understand their usefulness. But in order to do this, we need above all an open spirit and a willingness to learn from what is happening in other countries. Unfortunately, however, these conditions do not exist with the current government. And that is why we are committed that, especially in the area of education, what you have legislated will be abolished in the first few months of our administration and your bad parenthesis will only be a temporary return to a quality modern education in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u29	Connection, connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u30	With a law! Mr Tsipras, in fact, I am looking for your contributions, which I could agree with, but unfortunately I do not find much. I'm sorry to say that. We have a different perception and a different worldview on the issues of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u32	So I close with the following thought: The quality of education in our country delineates not only our prospect of the future, but also our own quality of democracy. The debt of every favoured state, every democratic state, is to form free and creative people who can make maximum use of their capabilities, but can also be adapted to a world that is changing rapidly. Nothing remains stable today, ladies and gentlemen. And the future comes boldly on us. And we don't have luxury as a country to stay still. However, we cannot and must not stir out out outdated ideological strangles, which, instead of taking us forward, turn us back to our darkest past. Greece must finally become the country of real merit and equal opportunities, the country that will allow a poor child from the western districts of Athens, a single-parent family to go to a good public school and know that if it works hard, it will expect a better tomorrow. That is our debt to the new generation, and that is our responsibility to the homeland! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament is organised and operated, forty-six members of the Tritecces Cardits Association. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor for twenty minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, everyone close to the doors and want to get out, hurry up, to hear the President. [[Challenges in the Chamber]] Please don't fight in there. Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Mitafidis, there is no interruption of proceedings. Please respect! Mr. Michalokou has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u34	We have listened carefully to the positions on education of both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility. As far as the government is concerned, the whole philosophy of education is summarised in the bill, which had been submitted days ago and which was entitled: "Agreements on Greek-language and intercultural education". "Greek-language education" and not Greek-language education. This is very important because those who today rule the country, in their understanding, have a false ethnicist view that there is no continuity among the Greeks, but that simply the inhabitants of this place are Greek-language, genuine descendants in this matter of Falmeryer. And for anyone who objects, let us see, as the Prime Minister himself said, who exclusively directs the education issues of the country. He directs them, as he said, the Institute of Educational Policy, whose head is Professor Liakos, who has been writing for many years in the media of "BAMAS" and said exactly what he teaches, that the national consciousness of the Greeks is the creation of the second half of the 19th century, that it is the result of European romance and there was no national continuity. To all these left-wing ethnicists, the late Svoron responds, but also the late professor Constantine Despotopoulos, who, when he had raised this issue and had become a matter of ideological and political controversy, had taken a public stand by writing and writing the following features: "The timeless continuity of the Greek Nation is diastomically witnessed by the historical reality and is not just an invention of the 19th-century Greek romance", to ideological support "national expansions", as it is written in a recent post. In the 19th century, the timeless continuation of the Greek Nation was simply discussed on account of its question by non-Greeks, not Greeks. The Greeks are now also questioned by Greeks as well, and that is also the case with educational policy. The late Constantine Despotopoulos concludes: “Before they were talking about it, as no one discusses self-evident and data.” [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We have already heard Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis speak of education and did not come into the essence of the subject 'what is Greek education'. They did not go into the substance of the matter, but they were consumed in various reforms that SYRIZA will do and which New Democracy will abolish. No one has wondered why we have two generations of Greek sands. At the moment, a Greek forty years old and underneath cannot read and understand Alexander Papadiamantis and we also give credit to all these teachers, most of whom make Marxist propaganda in schools and who did two generations of Greek amorphates! That's not a word! And how, of course, can Mr Mitsotakis say a word about it and compare with Mr Tsipras, when speaking perhaps influenced by his political adviser, the newest, former secretary of the CNE, Mr Theodorikos, reiterated the slogan "First in the courses, first in the race". Wasn't there anyone else to say from a slogan of the U.N.A.? But if something literally destroyed Greek education, it was the tiny dream of the postwar. That's why no one spoke. It was the mania, which took over the middle Greek family, in any case their children become engineers, become doctors, become lawyers, they definitely acquire a paper to take a place in the public and not really productive for the nation and society. Systemically, the client state and populism of both the Central Right and the Central Right are against education. And a characteristic example of this is the limit of '10', which had been set by a law quite right in our view, a law which foresaw that for someone to enter the HEIs and their equals now they should have taken the basis of '10'. And it was considered that this was strict, that it was a measure of authoritarianity and that they began to protest. Who? Provincial city restaurants, provincial town hoteliers and thus the state panicked this rule of merit, which was the limit of "10" and reached the point of entering higher education institutions, people who have not even written "10", that is, the basis. Walking on this line, Mr. Tsipras told us that he would abolish the pan-Hellenic exams. Will everyone get a university degree in this country? Don't we get the hundreds of thousands of unemployed graduates we have? And, in addition, did not anyone say a word about the four hundred thousand Greeks and Greeks - most graduates - who have migrated abroad because of this extermination of the Greek people's policy on memoranda? But Mr. Mitsotakis wants more universities. That's not enough. He wants us to do private universities, so that other unemployed scientists can come out, at the same time that, in fact, the economy of the country has been destroyed and Greece is going from bad to worse. There is, therefore, the Institute for Educational Policy. And in my hands I hold a book entitled "History of the Modern and Modern World - From 1815 to today", which is taught in the Third High School and on page 16 mentions: "The Revolution of 1821 was a product of a national movement, which developed in the last decades of the 18th century and the early 19th". That's a great lie. The Greek Revolution has been cultivated for four hundred years and tens of revolutions have become purely national. Below mentions characteristics: "The Greek national movement was also a political movement". Big liar! And in these lies Theodoros Kolokotronis himself, who clearly points out that: "Our revolution does not resemble anyone, from what is happening today in Europe" and is, of course, also mentioned in the French Revolution, while the revolutions against their administrations, are civil wars. Our war was the most righteous, the nation with another nation." In the Revolution of 1821 Greeks against the Turks stood up, who actually held us in a slavery regime. It was no revolutionary classic, Marxist, as did Cordatos himself. I would like to supplement from the historical speech by Theodoros Kolokotronis in Pineka, on all these ideological flares, which spread and want the various stars to become an official educational policy, and I respond with this as to whether or not the Revolution of 1821 was a class war. So Theodoros Kolokotronis said: "When we decided to make the Revolution, we were neither caught up with how many of us were nor have any chariots nor that the Turks were poured on the castles and towns, nor any caregiver told us "Where to go here to fight with a barbaric vachela," but as a rain the desire of our freedom fell in all of us, and all of us, and our clergy..." Mr. Philadelphia, "... and the captains and captains and the patrons, small and large merchants, we all agreed on this cause and made the Revolution." And the clergy say Theodore Kolokotronis, who had been wronged on many occasions, but that is not the subject of today’s meeting. There is a wide difference between education and vocational guidance. It's two completely different things. In Japan, more than 80% of them have higher education degrees, but do not work on these degrees. They may be working as industrial workers, but they are graduates. Education is a different thing from professional orientation. And, of course, we heard the Prime Minister say that in high school no students from class should be rejected, because they are at a sensitive age and thus their character, mentality, will be affected. But then, we don't want to do school. We would like to do so in this way. He said something else, which is really above the river, that if anyone fails in the written examinations, he will have the right after fifteen days to re-examination, so that it is not the school repressive. These things have nothing to do with the concept of education. Also, since I referred to historian's books and because Mr Mitsotakis attacked what the Prime Minister said, I would like to remind him that during the days of the New Democracy government, when he was a member of the New Democracy, we had Mrs Reposi's book, where the massacre in Smyrna had become aggregation in the waterfront of Smyrna. That is why the New Democracy is not talking about education, which, with Rallie's reform, literally dissolved everything. Education! Greek education! Greek education and not intercultural! What's intercultural? Here, I told you that we have become to the point that Greeks are not allowed today, the Greeks, forty years old, to read directly from Papadiamantis text and you want to teach them more cultures? Isn't Greek culture enough? The word "education" appeared in 6th BC. century for the first time in written text, at Theogni. And he declared from the outset the educational process of raising a child, his mental culture and an educational system. And it is a characteristic of Plato's definition of education: "Estin, where...", education, "whether on the body of gymnastics, or on the soul of gymnastics." Our Constitution also deals with Article 16(2), where it says that the state's mission is essential, where it aims to develop the Greeks' national and religious conscience. What growth? And it is certain that when the Constitution was written and talked about the development of religious conscience, it was clear that the legislature meant the religious consciousness of the vast majority of the people of Thrace at that time, that is, the Orthodox people, and a small minority of Muslims, which exists in Thrace. How now, in violating the Constitution, does the Prime Minister tell us how this will be done and will the teaching of religion change into a lesson in religion? And Mr Mitsotakis also agrees, who said attributes that he has no objection to the changes that will take place in the Religious Class. This is contrary to both the Constitution and also to the will of the Greek people in general. The government wanted to do revolutionary exercise with the Religious class. She wanted to flatter her left-wing clientele, trying to be pleasing in that she abolishes the Religious class. We also have the big issue of refugees and immigrants, illegal immigrants and 'identifiers', as you tell them. What an irregularity this is, I do not know exactly. We have the answer from the Association of Parents and Premiers of the 2nd Primary School of Philippiada, an answer which begins to spread to other regions of Greece and the Greeks refuse the presence of foreigners in schools, the way in which the government wants to place them. From the Association of Parents and Premiers of the 2nd Primary School of Philippiada: "The Board of Parents and Premiers of the 2nd Primary School of Philippiada expressly and unequivocally declares that it will not accept under any circumstances and without any compromise the intensification of the children of so-called "parallel" migrants. And it explains the reasons why, unenforceeded, you have demonized and no one has examined. Medical reasons: They come from another continent, with quite a different background of illnesses and hygiene conditions. Educational reasons: They cannot coexist with children of migrants, who have a huge educational gap because of their long abstention from any form of education, different perceptions of the role of the family, the position of the woman, religion. How can a child of so-called 'circuit' immigrants, of thirteen and fifteen years old, be incorporated in the same class as younger children, since he does not know the basic words of the Greek language? That, really, how can it be done? Without even knowing a single word of Greek, you'll put them in classes with Greeks to do lessons. It is, in fact, unreasonable. "In the total, these children are sometimes much more than the Greeks who attend our schools," the Filipida Parents Association says. Therefore, the inclusion of the applicants will alter the Greek nature of the schools on the one hand. Yes, we, the Golden Dawn, want Greek schools! Is that a crime? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And the Parents' Association completes: "The icons of Christ and Panagia, the saints and our heroes will continue to decorate our classes and we expect all the students to respect them." What do you intend to do? You aim, in the name of multicultural society and the presence of foreign students in classes, to download images from school halls. This Golden Dawn will not tolerate it and along with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people will fight it, in order to stay in Greek schools, to keep the schools, in fact, sources of Greek education and the Greek culture and not a multicultural funnel. In this multicultural society, which you are evangelizing, the Prime Minister, referring to religious lessons, said that it should not be exclusively dedicated to Orthodox Christian faith, because there will be other children. This multicultural society, didn't you see what community monsters it has created? Do you know of the crime that exists and the social breakdown, literally, which exists in the major states of the United States, Brazil and now also in England, London, Paris and Berlin? What do you want us to do, also in Athens, a Muslim mayor, as he got out in London? Hey, no! This policy will not pass and the Greek people will resist! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] But while you are so interested in the education of refugees and paramilitary immigrants, as we say - we have the question of Greek education - of Greek education and not Greek language - in the villages of Northern Epirus. I inform you that in areas where the Albanian state does not recognise as minority, despite the compact Greek populations living there, such as Saints Saranta, Delvinos, Argyrokastro, Himara, but also in villages with a mixed population, such as Emilia and Metohi, Greek schools are experiencing serious problems. Noteworthy, in Hoxha, we had three hundred Greek schools in Northern Epirus, and today we only have fifty. In the case of St. Saranda's school, the Albanian state is blocking the operation of the school in a separate building that is currently home to the Albanian-speaking school. It is a great responsibility for the Greek state in the field of books. This year the First Class at Saints Forty stayed without books. The "prototypes" in Greek school in Saints Foranda, ladies and gentlemen, do not have readers! And they are only eighteen, just as many as the Members of the Golden Dawn! Mr. Philie, if you can't send eighteen books to the North Continent, to the Saints, for the Greeks, we'll pay them. Do your duty, as the law imposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u35	They went, they went.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. [[The end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michaliakos is ringing at this point.]] [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u37	Gentlemen of the Democratic Alliance, if possible, a little quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u38	Another major issue is the teaching of ancient Greeks, where, of course, it was considered by some to be rather than nature, that they are paramount, that they tire of children, that they are troubled. I will respond again with the words of the late patriot, left-wing professor, a distinguished fighter of the spirit, of Constantine Despotopoulos. It was re-scheduled when this issue was raised on 22 September 2013. It is worth the effort to hear his words, because you are intended to limit the teaching of ancient Greeks. He wrote: "Communication with the texts of the ancient Greek writers in their own language is an excellent spiritual delight, with deep educational energy. To a lesser extent, communication through translations has a similar effect, where the unparalleled form of these classic texts is largely lost, the effect of the inextricably good and their signicant density, as well as their intrinsic and profoundness. We also believe that the Greek people are the guardian of the works of the classical Greek secretariat, with special responsibility for the whole humanity." "We propose, therefore, today...", said the late Constantine Despotopoulos, "...to supplement what was introduced by educational reform, students of the last grades of primary school to learn, intervening in some of their lessons, excavations in an ancient Greek language, such as "no insane", "medium of excellent" or historical phrases with avoidive value in the same language, such as "mole read", "attached, listen." But this Left, represented by the government, does not seem to have anything to do with Constantine Despotopoulos, but with some other circles that are outside the country, such as Carl Popper's open society, with all those who have been wholeheartedly placed in the service of globalisation and want to make the Greek people a consumer herd, a pulp. Against all of them the Golden Dawn resists. And I'm reading you a characteristic quote from the Golden Dawn program. Because the Golden Dawn has a schedule, despite what the canal parrots say, who want to deceive our movement. National education - Golden Dawn: Separation by departments of Greek and foreign students in primary and secondary education, in order not to reduce the level of teaching of Greeks due to the linguistic weaknesses of foreigners. Reproduction of historical books and emphasis on the course of Greek history. Teaching the ancient Greeks and the works of the classical period at all levels of education. And because there was a lot of talk of excellence, both by Prime Minister Tsipras and by Officer Mitsotakis, none of them bothered to say something. Excellence is the result of the educational system and education. But, gentlemen, respect nature: excellence is born, not done. And so we often see doctors' children becoming doctors, lawyers' children and prime minister children - in Greece - and prime ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen visitors from the 4th Municipal Session of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For 20 minutes, the President of the Democratic Group of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Genomes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I will ask in advance for the tolerance you have shown to all the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u41	You don't have to ask for it. It's a given, we don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I hope you're watching us from your office because, once again, you're not in this Chamber when the rest of the Chiefs of Antipopulation speak. Best defense, they say, is the attack, mostly when you're in panic. And that's obvious. We repeat once again: in the areas of transparency we are first. We raised and lifted the flag and challenge you. We have nothing to fear at all. That is why we voted for the committee of inquiry and we are waiting for its findings. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Now, as for the rest of the things you have told us, I will not be tempted to respond to all that you have disguised as great successes of your government. Where do you live, Prime Minister, in a parallel universe? The best answer to all this is one: The due debts of Greek citizens are over 100 billion. Are you satisfied, gentlemen of the government, by this? Apparently not. You know them very well. That's why the Prime Minister wasn't in the Chamber yesterday, so he's hiding. Because in this Chamber yesterday, a crime was completed. Public property has been delivered, public wealth has been delivered to lenders for ninety years. And, well, the Prime Minister is moving on hiding, because he thinks he can hide that he was subjected to the lenders. The strange thing is, however, that the Chief of Officer Response was also hidden yesterday, who had nothing to say about everything that happened. Obviously, why does he think it suits him to let the Prime Minister apply these policies to a extreme extent, which are what they are? It's at the core of the neoliberal right-wing agenda. I am really sorry about what is happening at the place and on the quality of counter-population and, of course, about the way this government is going. Education and education for our children, ladies and gentlemen, is an extremely crucial issue and is related to the causes of the crisis, but also to how we will overcome them and how the future of our country and of the new generation is eradicated. It is a crucial issue and we will talk about all this in substance. But, let me do a little parentheses, because by listening to the Prime Minister, I really didn't believe in my ears. You're coming now and you're selling us legality, and you're pulling our fingers on the irregularities and illegality your government does? But the bubble of supposedly legality for the first time in this place in the television scenery dug your hands. The world has a tombstone and you're the ones who hide out! What are you coming to tell us now? Yes, he fell black on "SYRIZA-channel", but the design has come to the forum, it's all revealed. How do you talk to us about a triangle of interlocutors? But the triangle is the government, the Attica Bank and your favourite contractor, who has been challengingly funded, just so he can build the channel. That's why you fought for the control of the Attica Bank, because you want to check the briefing. That's the target. We have fought in this House to find the competent authorities in the committee and to discuss and know what happened. And we will continue this effort to the end, because this contest is perforated. It is perforated because the role of the Independent Authority of the National Broadcasting Council has been "mutualized". It is perforated because the number of licences with fixed reports has been reduced. He is perforated, because the committee appointed by you has given false assurances and has not asked for a check on the documents. I said it and repeat it, it's time for the D.A. to intervene. And I wonder once again: is there a prosecutor in this place? There is a big deal about the contest itself, especially when other candidates declared outside the ministry publicly, in front of the cameras, that they fulfilled their mission. What did that mean? In Greek simply, what the Greek people understand is that there were also "fuckers" in this competition. I'm closing this parentheses and I'm coming to the point. For us, education is a national issue. Today we are addressing the Step of the Greek Parliament to students, teachers and parents. We are addressing students who, in really unprecedented circumstances, try to respond to the needs of a system, who very often feel that children do not understand their agony and problems. Will someone finally speak in the language of the children? Are we going to listen to their concerns? We are addressing the teachers, who have been truly 'plate' over the past time, in order to keep the system, without the support they should have given because of the crisis. We are particularly addressing parents and personally to every Greek mother, who I know very well how much weight they are lifting their backs under the conditions of the crisis we have been experiencing in recent years. And I know how much it hurts a Greek mother when her child is forced to leave abroad. Because the kids are leaving, not because they want it, but why they can't stay. In this debate, then, one would expect the government to come and tell us how, through education, we will be able to escape from the dawn, face the crisis, turn a page. Because we believe that in order for the country to change, education must be changed. We, as a party, as a party, have always moved by supporting, changing, upgrading public education. I am very surprised to hear the Prime Minister say today how the state has managed to secure democratic access to knowledge in previous years. But who did all this, Prime Minister? Who was it that ensured democratisation, national reconciliation, great redistribution, which gave access to knowledge, regardless of where each child came from, to each student? The great democratic party and the PASOK! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I also heard Mr Mitsotakis say: 'You returned the training in the 1980s'. I wish they'd returned to the age of the '80s! Because then there were major divisions, changes and reforms. Why all major sectors and reforms in this place have been sealed by the great democratic party, by Eleftherios Venizelos, George Papandreou, Andreas and all the governments of PASOK since 1981, that is, they have our own seal. No one can change history, no matter how struggling, with words of air in this Chamber. Can we see what the situation is today? Equivalent to everything. War of merit, excellence and evaluation, populism that really takes us many decades back. This foreign policy of yours has nothing to do with the left's mind. However, I must admit that you have the exclusiveity of "extracted" with no identities, no philosophy, no imagination, only with "victims" that turn education very back, tearing down what was built in the years of post-multipleism. I must admit here that you've exceeded that fountain and the predatory right. The damage, which you have brought to the country by your policy and the education sector, is incalculable. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on six points of criticism and seven proposals from the Democratic Alliance for education. I'm starting at the level of public school. You charge the Greek household, you deprive children of the opportunity to progress, regardless of their family's financial situation. The model of redistribution of knowledge today is questioned by your own political choices. Essentially abolish the full - time schools with a reformed program. You devour innovations and creative activities. Decrease the program in high school and remove the projects and beat the professional orientation. You say, supposedly - we've heard that too! - that you're building a school of equality. Yes, Prime Minister. Equality in lost opportunities. Everybody at the worst. Who will find it more difficult than these changes? It's simple. The Greek families, the new couples, who were beaten most by all during the crisis. These are the victims of your policy. You detested excellence. You undermine schools standards with a perception that fits other regimes. I would like to focus on the issue of excellence, because I regard it as a knot. For Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, excellence is a relic. For Mr. Mitsotakis and New Democracy, excellence is the means of reproducing the elite. For us, socialists, excellence is a priority in education, because in this way we can diffuse all benefits and excellent practices just in schools and children, who are most in need. Tall letters! At the same time as in Finland, Japan, the United States of America, the individualization of training programmes for the needs of each student is the rule, what are you doing? You're adjusting the school to the possibilities you have today. In short, Minister, education in the bed of the Protestor. Second point. Retreat from any conquest of quality. You made the choice to incorporate education into the third memorandum. You did this. That's the reality. And now you're returning the teacher in the '50s, when the teacher had to teach all classes, even gymnastics. In kindergartens, you are increasing the number of infants to reduce, apparently, the need for kindergartens. Even in special treatment, for which you are tired, you will - he says - special professional schools. First open the special treatment grades, which you can't work and, if you do it there, we talk about the next steps that you won't be here to do. In special treatment you brought law to allow any teacher to enter the class without pre-service, without any specialization. All down. You're taking her back to establish the special treatment. Be careful, your moto is: Lower the teachers and make them all ashes. You deserve tertiary education. We are listening to promises of import without examinations at the HEIs, with an abstract promise, as always, of a so-called Greek Bakalorea, you who fought rabies the national sanitation centre and I think you should finally make it clear what you mean and stop playing with the anxiety of young children. Restore eternal students, rosphets and biscuits within the university and otherwise you are interested in the quality and role of the public university. You are prosecuting and desecrating brilliant scientists with international recognition, who have really come to help and upgrade our universities, and now tell us that the law on councils has had problems. Why didn't you improve him? Why do you abolish them? You had a chance to improve him. I wonder now how public universities will respond to the need for extroversion, innovation, mobility, new ideas and practices. They need oxygen from the universities. As for technical vocational education, SYRIZA used to stone us: "Not in connection with the labour market. Not in youth entrepreneurship. Not in apprenticeship and in practice'. He blamed us for giving the new children to the employers. Now he says he's gonna do it all. And these. I wonder how and when. Mutated? The third point is partisanism, anxiocracy and co-decoration. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL - the Independent Greeks, really, are not here today - everywhere you are trying to create your own status and, unfortunately, you have shown the same understanding in education. You chose the thirteen regional training directors on the sole basis of their faith in the party. You evaluated them on the basis of how much they fought the evaluation. You turned the selection of school directors into a trade union race. In short, deregulation everywhere. Fourthly, the national dialogue on education has become a travesty. We have really tried to participate in this dialogue, but it has been impossible. The only thing you were interested in was the legalisation of the Minister's decisions, which were unilateral. At the same time as he was sitting - it was supposed - and continued the dialogue, you were bringing amendments to irrelevant bills and legislative acts, even on issues that were not urgent. I wonder why you are bypassing and not forming the National Education Council, which is the main institution of consensus in education. Obviously because you avoid any agreement. You are undermining the acquis of all broad consensus, just as you have done with the tertiary education law. We know, Mr. Tsipras, that you have used Mr. Friends many times to change the agenda. Today we have learned how easily you hang him in the handkerchiefs. You opened the front with the Church, because you saw the hard stuff. If you were really interested in changes, there were ways. There are very serious, progressive, modern proposals from scientific committees set up by the PASOK - these proposals have been closed in your drawers very deeply - and they are about changing the curriculum to all lessons and religions. At last, make use of them! It's too simple! Fifth point. The education's finances. One point I will mention: you have wasted most of the NSRP, which concerns the recruitment of alternates. Of the EUR 400,000 for the years 2015-2021 only this year you spent EUR 140,000, i.e. 35%. What are you going to do for the rest of the years? How are you gonna move? Neither five-year planning are you able to do unless your opinion is "Let's get it out now and load the burdens on the next". Sixth point. The educational policy of refugees. A lot of talk to the refugee workers finally six hours lessons English and four hours English a week, either in the schools or in the miserable camps, as you have said. Our policy was a political European country, with host classes and educational tools. In the refugee region you are following Turkey's policy: a little state, an exclusion from the official education system and an increased role for NGOs and international organisations. And precisely because of your own omissions, today one needs to explain to local communities self-evidently. However, all children have the right to school and - if you like - only in this way ensures social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the efforts of the New Democracy and its Chief as supposedly the great reformer. Look, with loan reforms from others, this profile is not built. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is the PASOK governments who have studied, implemented, strived for all major areas and changes in education. And, finally, make that a decision! On the other hand, it was the New Democracy that stopped the legalization of the technical training we had prepared. It was New Democracy at the same time as the "ATHENA" project for higher education, so as not to take the political cost. It was the New Democracy that chose to dismantle the vocational training system, when it left unpaid teachers and structures and strengthened the private training system against the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government, instead of investing in education to overcome the crisis, is bringing the crisis to education. We will not get away from this stagnation unless we decide in the field of education to go to overthrows. And for us, the first big overthrow in education is that it takes a decade's plan. No more sewing, no more plan and no more orientation! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We set four objectives: first, education outside memoranda and it is not impossible, because we have done so. Secondly, decentralisation of the educational system at regional level. Thirdly, an evaluation framework function at all levels. And, fourthly, strengthening experiential practices and not abolishing them, regarding the environment, politics, human rights, health and culture. And on the basis of these objectives, we are presenting our proposals today, which we will put directly into dialogue with the whole educational community and which are the following: First, the bag, finally, at school. This means generalizing the full-day school with a single reformed educational program and, of course, implementing the group of activities in high school, new breathing in special education and in the actions of the social school, a certificate of language and information immediately after graduation from the 3rd grade. Secondly, no inequalities, exploiting modern technologies that help us cope with the inequalities in school, so that every child, whether on a remote island or in a mountainous area, can receive exactly the same modern education as a child in the center of Athens. Thirdly, the release of high school from admission to higher education. We can remove the stress of the examinations, the psycho-corruption processes and give value to the public school, with modern curriculum and a national dismissal internationally recognised. Fourthly, strong vocational training with the recognition of rights. So only we will motivate the young children to choose this way. Fifthly, a new map of higher education with rationalization of institutions, departments, schools and also a real matching of studies at the various levels of education. Restore with improvements to the 2011 Reform Act to upgrade institutions, strengthen the extrovert, link them, finally, to society and production, because that is where the future lies. So we'll get away from the crisis and the tide. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Create foreign language courses of undergraduate and postgraduate studies with tuition for the reception of foreign students at the public university. I would like to make a comment here. Our priority is strengthening the public university, not substituting it from private. But we know the reality about us. We know what is being shaped both within the country and in neighbouring countries. That is why we say that the debate now needs to be opened on the strict framework for the operation of non-state universities before they substitute the state, which we want to be in the lead. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Sixth, a strong system of training and retraining through lifelong learning. Cooperation between the State, institutions, local actors and private sector bodies in innovation and research. Procedure for the certification of professional qualifications and skills acquired through non-formal and informal education. Seventh, educators with dignity, with objective recruitment, new modern practice, establish a stable framework of continuing training and creativity in the selection of training managers, with an evaluation system linked to the upgrading of their economic earnings. We want teachers with dignity and in their social lives. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece can. Greece can overcome the problems, develop and take the lead in European developments, as long as we decide to invest in the future, that is to say in our children. In short, education, investment in education, where each euro is a place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member, Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, seeks permission from abroad from the work of Parliament and the committees from 28 September to 3 October. It will be located in Los Angeles, guest of Harvard Professor Ferguson and will participate as speaker at a conference entitled 'Global developments at social, economic and political level'. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u44	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would ask the Secretary-General and President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u45	Finally, 'the hand washes both faces'. You have tried again, Mr Mitsotakis, to give Mr Tsipras the left hand, as much as he is approaching the positions of the New Democracy on the central and educational issues, of course, with the flexibility, as always, of mockery, disorientation and propaganda with some krone. Although you, Mr. Mitsotakis, have provoked this debate on education and since you have been "fast" for this infamous evaluation, we are telling you that you have probably been re-electioned, but about the same degree it takes, on the basis of today's sitting, and Mr. Tsipras. For us in politics, the 'between the blind and the one-eyed' should not apply. This seemed better than the time the Prime Minister gave the Ministry of Education an excellent 20 for success, as he says, to open up public schools without problems. The hypocrisy becomes even more outrageous when the oral Prime Minister states that "our judge is the everyday life of parents and students", while the Minister formulated the return to regularity in schools. Mercy! We really don't all live in this country? Every day's life for the people's family and its children are very different. So let's see what regularity the public school returns. When the school starts, the already carved by HIS and other folk family taxes has this picture in front of it. Costs for tutoring, for foreign languages, for some activity - anyone who can - culture or sport, as well as the school bag that, regardless of its new one, must fill with a number of materials the famous school list. It says the government: "This is a certain situation that is difficult to change. We have made sure that the schools open without gaps. This is the bet we won." Speaking of which, the bet you've earned so far has a name. It is called the third memorandum, the one you voted together with the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami. Was it not the third memorandum, which specifically raised the question of rationalising expenditure on education? That bet you won. You literally implement the memorandum in education and to do this even more effectively, you are using the whole old, reactive ideological arsenal of the governments taking anti-grass measures. It has not been 15 days since the Minister of Education has provoked provocatively in his meeting with the ILO, the teaching federation that in previous years there have been more recruitment of substitutes than needs, that we have had a waste of power and credit. We have heard this, too, that expenditure on vacancies - which means an unsatisfactory popular need for education - is a waste. This is the rationalisation of expenditure on education that you have agreed to, voting on the third memorandum. For you it's a waste when the kids have a stable school teacher in the full-day grade. This is why the full-day kindergarten is transformed exclusively into a storage area. That is why it is lacking in the disabled, the structures and the teachers it needs. That's why school hours are being reduced to basic high school lessons. This is why limitations are placed on the setting up and operation of specialties in the PESA and students are forced to leave the specialty they want or to be transferred to another school. That's why you're blocking the formation of high school guidance groups, you're sending students to change. That is why you have not implemented both in time and in good time the reinforcement of teaching and additional teaching support in high school and high school to date. You have reached the point where you are saying that the gaps and shortcomings of the unions of teachers and teachers are false, that these are not trade union practices. So what do you want? Cemetery silence to applaud you already? So the gaps and shortcomings are simple numbers? No, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Behind every gap and lack of teachers there is a student who loses contact with a number of cognitive objects, a student who has no musician, gymnast and a number of other skills that can contribute to the education of the young man. You're cutting out that you've covered the gaps. You have proceeded to a series of surgical interventions so that fewer teachers are needed. You made a school that literally works with what you have left over from kindergarten to high school. The entire day's kindergartens are in the air, the primary schools with ninety teaching hours less per week, the schools with teachers who learn no matter what their scientific object. Even with this school’s cut - off program, the gaps continue to exist. The "You'll get the kids sooner tomorrow" told by the headmasters of primary schools to parents, is nothing but a tranquil proof that the treatment of supposedly waste continues. Is that what you're talking about? That's what we're giving you. Nor does it respond to the people's needs, nor does it respond to the wealth that the worker currently produces, the opportunities available, so that education can be provided exclusively for the public and free of charge for all and at a high level. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a particular area in education, which is literally very sensitive. This is the area of special treatment. You should not even dare to speak here because, unfortunately, this multi-faceted area of education began this year with its own timeless 'normality'. This year, special schools did not open on September 12th, as the necessary training and special assistant staff lacked. This year, no part-sessions were opened, and even the parents of parallel support are waiting for credits and special teachers to go to school. Literally, your government's legislative work is coming to finish the "sheep" left by the previous governments. Because it is further downgrading your special treatment to close one of the two branches of integration in merged schools, when there is a need for them to be established everywhere in all schools, and at the same time when in the large schools where children are more than two hundred, there is also a need for a second section of integration. Because it is a downgrading of special education, putting unskilled teachers with a single educational seminar, to respond to the complex needs of this special education. At the same time, when there are thousands of scientific teachers who, while they could offer, are left to unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, overall changes in school are on the same line as previous governments. You have organised a dialogue on education. You have sought to extract the consent of the people, and this is why the New Democracy unfairly accuses you that you are not supposed to want a consensus. But you didn't. The people are right to keep and keep a small basket. Of course, the dialogue and the whole debate that has taken place and which is still taking place has enabled the common strategic objectives of the SYRIZA Government to be seen once again with New Democracy and other parties. So that we do not forget you: For the autonomy of the school he spoke about the conclusion of the dialogue that you organized. School autonomy has also been demanded by the New Democracy. For the assessment of the school, obviously, the measures and the market stations and not the needs of the people's family mentioned your conclusion. The same is true of New Democracy. Reinforcement of entrepreneurship is also proposed by SYRIZA. Enhanced entrepreneurship is also proposed by the New Democracy. Is the educational coupon that literally stimulates public and free education in the air and where it has been applied, leading to even greater inequalities, for example, the proposal of BSE or New Democracy alone? No, of course not. Your government is implementing this with pre-school education today. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to convince the people that you have moved into a world of progressive changes in education. You talk about returning high school to the educational process and declaring high school from the pan-Hellenic exams. The main problem with high school, though, is the exam? Its content, in our view, is the main problem. This content, which you keep intact, has been determined since 2006 still in PASOK, has been kept by the New Democracy and you continue it. So do not throw crocodile tears for youths with no knowledge and no such. So where's the government doing it? In our opinion, it simply wants to create reduced educational requirements for its children, to lead to logic, to finish high school and then we see it. But then it's about the most famous changes in high school. That's where the iron fly and the steel mosquito will eat! A high school exam, that's what you want. Your proposal looks like that infamous Arsenis law, and that's why she'll eat her face from the students and then. A high school inquisition center! In this high school, then, an endless examination marathon, which will deter the choice of general high school, will be generalized, thus bringing the dream of the government and all other urban parties, of course, for a more massive turn in early training to the downgraded and lacking ESDP infrastructures closer to reality. Free access you're advertising is a fraud. The claim that it is not possible for a moment in the examinations to determine the future of the younger forever is hypocritical. If the Government were, in fact, interested in the pain and anxiety of the children of the people's families in front of the Greek examinations, then it could satisfy the demands for the right to reopen the procedure as many times as the candidates wish, for the possibility of obtaining a rating. Speaking of PSAs, you are once again hypocritically talking about equal opportunities between PSA students and general high schools on access to PAIs. The specialities are already being abolished. Move children from one end of Attica to the other. This morning we had PSA students mobilisations. The children of the PESA want them to be taken into account from the very young age, so you keep the provision of the New Democracy law for the definition of skills on the basis of the proposals made by the social partners. That is why we insist that the children of the ESDP should also have theoretical and technical training, that the degree they are getting can get them to work on the subject, without any certification, as is now being done. Ladies and gentlemen, another very serious issue is this: you and the New Democracy are saying that you are supposed to stop leaving new scientists abroad. How are you supposed to pursue this? With programs and university scholars recycled gaps in university teaching staff? With any new programs operated with a blocked staff, which did not reach them what this unacceptable regime entails, but which are more burdened by the new insurance policy, which does not give the right to a leave for pregnancy and preservatives to young female researchers? With the only thirty-one post-doctoral research posts in so-called humanitarian sciences throughout Greece for those who took their doctorate in the last seven years? With the thousands of doctors throughout Greece who cannot complete their dissertations, because they are forced to work on projects that are not related to the subject of their thesis and their responsible consciously delay them, in order to get them the work they receive for them and others. All of this, therefore, is an attempt to halt the evacuation of new scientists abroad. Efforts to strengthen the commercialisation of research are. Speaking of excellence which has been said here, we should also bring the example of Great Britain where, according to the research bill, the achievement of the objectives of excellence in teaching is linked to assessments and to the possibility of increasing tuition in line with inflation. Institutions that catch the targets will be able to raise tuition fees for their students, while for those institutions that fail to catch the targets, a higher tuition threshold of £9.000 per year is established. In addition, as expressly acknowledged by official communications, the bill is intended to provide a net economic benefit to providers of higher education of £1.1 billion a year. Ladies and gentlemen, this reality does not want SYRIZA-ANEL to be changed in the field of education as a whole. Besides, the OECD's directions are also being made by the current government. These are guidelines which say that there must be limited non-state funding and cost-sharing for state subsidies. They are guidelines which speak directly about differentiating the funding of study programmes on the basis of their assessment, whether they meet the needs of the labour market. This evolution opens Haelo's hold to close sections, especially for TEIs, but also for depreciating sections left to their fate, because they do not meet the existing conditions. The Government therefore agrees and promotes the university - a public limited company which was literally promoted by the previous governments and which is, moreover, the main feature of the university in capitalism. It is, therefore, the university which is highly differentiated by the establishments, but also by the colleges of all kinds, which itself provides various levels of diplomas, courses, diplomas and graduates of first, second and third grades. It is the university that has handed over to contractors every aspect of student care, which closes the string of state funding, which "pays" the institutions' reserves, so that it can give tax relief and warm money to large companies. It is the university that has literally been dehumidated by staff, infrastructure, modern equipment. Instead, SYRIZA - ANEL co-government chooses to have a minimum potential, which runs from position to institution and from institution to institution, to literally "holes" in teaching, laboratories, research. They are the universities and the TEIs, where the outbreaks are not even sufficient for 10% of applications. In some areas, in fact, there are not at all. The clubs are privatising and dropping food quality at the same time as raising so-called symbolic prices and rejecting students and students. Books and consumables are many times expensive, while coexistence has already announced that it will also cut this one free book, for allegedly accessing more books per lesson. Teachers do not have much of a course, especially at TEIs, so full courses, theories and workshops come out without much suffering from curricula, since there is no one to teach them. In short, we have a postmortem of technological institutions in terms of scientific knowledge either of some sections of the subject matter, such as nursing, or of other application, such as graphics, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in our proposal we are starting from what all the other parties are denying that education is not a commodity, that it must be provided under the responsibility of the State, that it must be exclusively public and free of charge for everyone by abolishing business activity in all the structures of education and provision in line with the needs of young people. We start from the position that literally no child can be considered to be powerless in the face of knowledge. No young people and young people can leave themselves to the demands of unemployment, heterogeneous employment, the reaping of their qualifications. No teacher can spare it. We are clearly saying that wealth and knowledge exist so that all young people and young people can form a whole and work in what they have studied. From this position we are struggling to ensure that all pre-school education and childcare facilities are located in kindergartens, which will have all the necessary permanent staff - teaching staff, special teaching staff and assistant staff - in modern buildings, classes where there will be no stacking of twenty, twenty-five, twenty-seven infants. We know particularly about the issue of special treatment, because there is a need for positive unequal treatment, which must face up to the strife of natural weaknesses. Positively unequal treatment, of course, means establishing and operating all the necessary structures for special education and training. From this point of view, we separate our position from the propaganda of inclusion, without all the essential conditions which, in fact, can be positive in the integration of children into the normal schools. That is why we are also striving for a permanent scientific, pedagogical, assistant staff in all structures. The issue of early diagnosis and intervention from childbirth is crucial. We fight for a school that will provide the same education to all students, without separating children and schools at a lot of speeds, depending on each's area and pocket, a school that will be safe and with all the auxiliary spaces that their students need, such as workshops, sports facilities, gyms, library, theatre, music, etc., a school that will help all children with disabilities and learning difficulties. One, really, single modern school is what has an extended time function to complete all, inexceptively, children at school their educational program - study, jobs, sports activities, foreign languages - while free feeding and resting, while being able to make use of their structures and their free time for activities that will provide free of charge. To the question that one - many will already have put in you without saying it - it is possible in the current Greek crisis to speak of modern infrastructure, public infrastructure, and free of charge for all children when there is no euro for photocopying?', we will answer the following: Modern schools with modern logistics, sports, culture, are now also there, but they are enjoying few, are the prerogatives of those who have them. Take a walk to the northern suburbs and see some state-of-the-art private schools with stadiums, swimming pools, places of creation, work, something like what Mr. Mitsotakis described before. Think that all this is the sweat of the worker, but that the private capitalist is plunged and invests in education to earn only profits. So here's what the solution is. Get all of them out of the way, so stop the profit being the purpose of production, the economy, and therefore the educational process. When this is done, then modern schools will be made and all children will have access to it. Vocational training in the conception of the JRC starts after the single 12-year-old either as a maximum or through vocational schools, which will be oriented into the educational system, not as the current undiminished IEK, KEK etc. They will offer diplomas with professional competence, qualifications for an integrated profession, that is to say. Their graduate will not have to pass through any other certification, which questiones and devaluates his degree and studies. Evidently, for us higher education is a vocational training at scientific level. From this position we are talking about a single higher education system, because in order to fulfil its social mission higher education must have the highest scientific level as a whole. In other words, it also needs to be single, with equal institutions, which do not compete in order to ensure financing and privileged relations with monopolistic groups, but work together to understand, deal with and use the laws of natural and social reality. On this basis, undergraduate studies provide high-level university education for all students, ensuring full scientific competence and professional competence in the respective scientific subjects, creating deep cultivated scientists, capable of thinking and acting scientifically at all levels and not just in their objects. The right to practice of the profession is automatically guaranteed by the acquisition of the diploma. In addition, postgraduate studies will be designed to promote the production of new knowledge and complete with the award of the doctoral degree. I conclude with the following: Mr Tsipras, the House held other meetings in September, where other political leaders spoke almost all of them. You were gone. We have said here about television licences and the famous competition, as well as about the religious and the position of everyone. Last week we talked about the sale you made in Greek, and only yesterday we talked about the privatisations and the TIADED, and of all the other things, of course, the Greek people heard about them. Of course, all of this confirms that most of these are also used for disorientation, to ash the eyes of the people with various leftover crowns. Eventually all of this confirms that you have indeed been chosen - as the JRC has repeatedly said - to do the dirty work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The President of the River Parliamentary Group Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u47	I'll start where Mr. Koutsubas ended. Mr. Tsipras, the House did not start today. Indeed, the party speech you made us at the beginning of the meeting, you could have taken it out yesterday and last week, when we discussed various political issues. I won't follow you. I will only tell you this, for all the things you have said: The crimes of the past do not justify the fresh crimes of the present. Let me consider education as a bigger case than debt. Hence the tie I've been wearing since the morning! [[Applause from the river wing]] The damage we do to the economy - I imagine you know - can once be corrected. The damage we do to education is not corrected by laws and ministerial decisions. None of the parties - except the river that existed, for that reason alone - is innocent of blood in education. I am not only talking about the parties that have ruled, about New Democracy and the PASOK. I'm talking about you, too. Schools and, in particular, universities have always been at the hands of parties sometimes in opposition. So the responsibility for the anticipation of education is cross-party. What kind of public education are we talking about? Are we proud that our children are getting more educated than children around the world, when Greek parents are paying most of the money? And all this to have one of the worst educational systems in Europe. But let me start from the lesson in which we all get twenty-seven Religiouss. In High School I we have one hour a week Physics, one hour a week IT, one hour a week Biology and two hours a week Religious. Do we need this school? Do we have to dare? We say yes. The Church must dare. Graduate school also insults Orthodoxy. Religious clocks must come in 2016. The river invites all of us to dare a little more. We must open up, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the separation of States - Church. But as the constitutionalist Stavros Tsakakis wrote, the separation of the State - Church requires seriousness, requires alliance with the believers, who realize that separation will be beneficial not only to the state but also to their own religion and, of course, to the assurance of absolute respect for everyone's faith and the right to his worship. The revision of the constitution - which I hope will not be done in the same way as electoral law - is a great opportunity for a dialogue without fear and passion. In the Church there are several hierarchs of earthlings and moderates - first of all, I would like to believe Archbishop Jerony - who should not be afraid of this dialogue. Children of immigrants and refugees will have a different structure from the rest of the debates. I have seven chapters that I will develop. Immigrant children and refugees, then. In titles and fine words, I think we all agree. ‘The applicants shall have the right to education.’ "The chauffeurs are our children too." But we need to see how we achieve this. Step one: To agree that those children who have a familiarity with learning, with the learning process, must join the schools of their neighborhood. Incidentally a small symbolic, even a burden, should also be borne by private schools in the framework of corporate social responsibility. Local societies have no reason to be afraid. Instead, deformation and ghettos are our enemy. I would like here to applaud the position of Archbishop of Crete at a difficult time when some people tried to build walls between the Cretans and the refugees or immigrants. But that is not enough, Mr Philly. It's not enough to say that children from the camps can go to the schools in their area. He hasn't given up anywhere. Let me have a personal story. In the early years of my journalism, in the early 1980s, I was involved in the training of Roma, gypsies or gypsies. Roma is the official. So I've tried what I'll tell you in real life. In Saint Barbara we made it and the walls fell. Today Roma children are many times illiterate and no one is curious anymore. But we didn't make it everywhere. In Sopho, Aspropyrgos, Treropotamos in Thessaloniki, Nea Ionia Volos and other closed Roma communities we failed. Despite efforts, despite the molding, despite the coaches, despite the benefits to parents, children did not leave the camps. They leave, as you know, in the first few days and then the first couple return to the scenes without their books. Here, then, we need to act differently. It is a concrete proposal and a study. They've tried it both in France and Spain. Road schools, schools within the camps, Roma and immigrants and refugees for children without school experience and will never go to neighborhood schools. Why do we want to? We don't want five kids in school. We want all the children of the camp to learn letters, to come in contact with Greek culture, with European culture. This will be our victory. Allow me, we should be strict with parents and immigrants and refugees. Their stay in our country must also depend on respect for the right of children to be educated. Admiral behaviors that girls want not to learn letters or boys to stop school, whenever the patriarch of the family decides, do not pass here. This must be made clear. Human rights for women, children are not negotiable in the name of any tradition or custom. Children's Stations: Research shows that preschool education determines at least one third of human success or failure. Substantial reforms in education do not begin with universities, but kindergartens and primary schools. Because it has now been shown that the most effective way of reducing inequality is by investing in pre-school age. It must be the European Union's concern to ensure pre-school education and food for all the children of the continent, for all the children of the unemployed, for all the children of the socially excluded families. This year, however, ladies and gentlemen, despite your celebrations, thirty-seven thousand children will be left out of childcare facilities. That's the reality. We don't read in evidence how many added. How many didn't succeed. So 1/3 of the kids who applied didn't get into a juvenile station. Until we see what Europe will do, with 50 million we could take all the children into childcare facilities. It is 57 million actually, a little, that is, more than 1 million per ministry. The priority, however, today and today and always, is the al-House ministerial advisers and not the needs of the poor families. Vocational training: We continuously increase the number of admissions to universities. We've reached seventy thousand. Universities break down - and you know the reasons - but families may be satisfied that their child tomorrow will be not a mere unemployed person, but a graduate unemployed person, because we have the highest percentage of unemployed graduates in the world. Vocational and technological education is our dismissal, whether we talk about TEIs or about professional high school. In other words, there is no professional orientation and children choose on the basis of stereotypes, on the basis of parental repellents and on the basis of television modalities. But it's a mistake that we'll pay dearly. Modern vocational education is the pride of education in many other countries. 51% of German students choose this education. 30% of French people choose this education. And students don't just learn something at school, but they practice real work. Technical specialties, manual work is not a second option. And this should be understood by our children and parents. Here, we usually find out after our children finish legal or public relations. We are pushing our children into the wrong choices, wasting money, mainly wasting their years, and ultimately we have the majority of graduates who do not love what they have studied. Upgrade, therefore, vocational technical education with the potential of practical training and association with production. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] So now we are going to conflict with the government: non-State universities. Be in the country of the irrationality, the absolute irrationality. The President of the Republic a few days ago, at the beginning of the month, opened with his presence the new wing of a college in Maroussi. And he did well, of course. The Prime Minister in the spring - if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Tsipras - was an honorary doctor of economic sciences. One might raise some objections to the subject, but that is not what we are talking about. After all, you became a doctor at a private university in Izmir. Not to say about your dean, who is now in some ECHO, as I remember, commander, who, when in Thessaloniki, was protesting against non-state universities and weekends, took the plane and went to Cyprus to teach private universities. [[Applause from the river wing]] And, of course, the constant irrationality of many of us, politicians, their children in private schools and praise only public schools and fight private ones. How hypocritical now! So this irrationality has to end. Non-State universities now, we say, and we're not afraid. This is a modern request. We have already wasted a lot of time, a lot of money, and we have lost tens of thousands of children leaving abroad in good, but also in bad universities, in America and Albania. Turkey has more than fifty thousand foreign children, students, in its own private universities. And do not think, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - because I have heard some comments before - that the refusal of non-State universities is left. The junta caught you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u48	Aren't you ashamed to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u49	They first declared in an absolute way - there are the texts - that we are against private universities because they will destroy education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u50	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u51	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u52	I don't understand the reason for your reaction. So I tell you again that the position, not the private universities, should not make you proud. Before you two have been told juntas, they have called her ministers of the junta...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u53	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u54	Aren't you ashamed to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u55	...which say to prevent private individuals from being controlled at universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u56	It's embarrassing of you to say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u57	Please, Mr President, you cannot avoid this parallelism...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u58	Look out, you're coming back to something I don't understand. Where do I insult you? In your hypocrisy, am I insulting you? You have your children abroad and you're against private universities? [[Applause from the river wing]] Is Mr. Tsipras a doctor at private universities and is it forbidden for our children to study in Greece and send them to Albania?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u59	Continue the exam on Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u60	Because you're causing me, you have your children in private schools in Athens...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Tsipras has his children in private schools and attacks private schools? Where do I insult you? I don't understand. Tell me about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u62	Give Mr. Mitsotakis an exam! Continue the exam on Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u63	Your hypocrisy cannot be tolerated! Your hypocrisy cannot be tolerated! And I will say it again: before you the pigs had banned private universities!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u64	You're a sucker!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u65	Councils: Let's go to the very unpleasant ones. Another president...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u66	Because you insult us, I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u67	Yeah, the cafeteria's waiting for you. Go on. Another Foundation President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u68	You're a sucker!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u69	If you can't stand it, stay out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u70	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u71	I thought we could have a debate today with arguments. I heard the Prime Minister, at least forty-eight minutes ago, without any interruption from our group, saying his own worldview about private universities and private schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u72	Did he insult you once?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u73	But that's your feeling of dialogue. Your people can talk too, but we can't talk, and when we talk, you leave the Chamber for a cigarette. You should go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u74	You compare different things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u75	I'm talking about councils.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u76	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u77	Another Foundation President Yiannis Tsitsiklis of MIT, who came to help his country, resigned from Charokopeo and had just resigned Dimitris Bertsimas - and he from MIT - from the University of Athens. So did Gregory Sifakis of the University of New York, resigned from the University of Crete. In other words, we're kicking out the distinguished Greeks from the university boards, but we're bringing back eternal students. And just...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u78	Why did they quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u79	I'll tell you why. I talked to them and they told me why they quit. They resigned for Mr. Friend. I'll tell you now. Don't rush, don't get ahead of yourself. And just that the government has Mr. Peglerin, who, by the way, wants to rewrite the Holocaust's history - but this is another matter -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u80	What a man you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u81	So just that Mr. Peglerin is in front, the anniversator of the boards, that shows your intentions. So I spoke, after you're fighting, with the three of you. I also spoke to Mr. Sifakis, and I also spoke to Mr. Bertsima, and to Mr. Chichiklis. Let me tell you what they said: "We came to help. However, everyone was suspicious, among the cozy teachers, student party parties, syndicated interests and, of course, a hostile government. We have come to propose solutions to deal with mismanagement, to make institutions extrovert, innovatively, to interconnect them with production and they only want us decorative. Well, we've never been decorative in our lives, so we're leaving." It would be more honorable to abolish them with a law and an article, to make a little joke. Instead, you deceive them in practice and force them to leave. Why? So let's go to the answer that's the big wound. Partyism, party youths, party teachers. Universities are treated as a field of party action, as barracks to find fighters, to find applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u82	From us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u83	Madda, she doesn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u84	In order to avoid them, we have a proposal to all of you, namely to SYRIZA, to New Democracy, to PASOK: to abolish your party youths within the universities. [[Applause from the river wing]] Let the universities breathe, let the students consult, participate and claim. But not by a command from Koumoundouros, by order of Theodorakis, by order of Charilaos Trikoupis, by order of Piraeus. To claim, to participate in their own decisions. In the student elections, that is, not to vote for party groups, but to vote for people, ideas and efforts. Do you dare do this? Do you dare take this step forward? Do we have to abolish party orders? Oh, no. But it would be a new beginning, because academic and party interests are not converging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u85	Please, be quiet. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u86	It's all annoying. Even the abolition of student parties into universities. You should understand, ladies and gentlemen, that party student groups are addicting the student from early in client cultures, customer practices and tactics, known to all of us. They teach young people that you can proceed only with party identity and not with your own power, not with your ideas. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Detachments of teachers and teachers. Last year, Mr. Friend had given evidence of teachers' secondments. It's over a thousand. Three hundred and seventy-seven in the central agency of the Ministry of Education, three hundred twenty-seven in the MP offices, sixty-two in the parties, two hundred in the local government, one eighty in the Church. Mr. Friend asked us, I imagine, of all the parties, to say how many posted teachers are in each party. The river responds. We have a seconded teacher, too. I don't have the answer of SYRIZA and ANEL. Apparently it's given. We are proposing a limit on the secondments to parties and Members. To return as many teachers as possible to schools, because teachers will change schools and school must be this main field of action rather than the parties. We need to evaluate them. Those who are not capable of an evaluation that will not have a party stamp and all others to build a modern, fair, productive, open school in society, as has happened in many regions of the country by attempts by heroic teachers and teachers, who have resurrected their schools, along with some parents who take the curtains home to wash them, who are painted by the schools themselves, who pay from their pocket the cleaner this afternoon. So to strengthen the positive examples. Those who inspire our children, those who say "we will change school". That is what we should say here today. But we are confined to generalism, to extremism, and we should set high targets. I'll tell you two-three. Twice next year, the next year, the standards and experimental schools, with the priority of the degraded areas. To put as a national objective many universities at the best of the world, four hundred and two hundred. Not to be content with lies, like what the Prime Minister said, that we have enough universities on the lists of the best universities in the world. We are constantly falling and we will have to admit it and do something. To say again, the state that has no basis for education is built upon the sand, as Korais said, to stay only in the Greeks today. Ladies and gentlemen, no country has ever come out of the crisis without giving absolute priority to education and education alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u88	Minister, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, you have referred to the Holocaust and raised an issue that was not. When I spoke here in the House, you were all present and nobody reacted, only after five days, to some malicious articles. Yesterday I was in Israel and met with the Minister of Education of Israel about the possibility of convening a three-member Committee of Cyprus, Greece and Israel. Nothing has been mentioned. I spoke with the Israeli Ambassador to Greece. I asked her: 'Did you read my text?' It says to me: 'Yes'. 'What is your opinion?'. 'The same as yours.' How does such a matter arise from the non-institutional? Secondly, on the Councils, you referred to Mr Bertsima. You asked him? You asked me to give you my opinion and say I'm also an exterminator? I have to tell you that I have received a series of complaints from the boards and intervened with the prosecutor. All complaints went to the file. Newspapers that were achieved at the time the issue was reopened, 'THEA' and 'KATHMERINA', were forced to revoke and come here in a completely irresponsible way and you refer to issues, having stated that your intention is to discuss? Do you blame without checking your words? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u91	You have reached Israel. I came to Ioannina and went to the synagogue and spoke to the representatives of the Community. They ask for explanations from you - you know - and they have sent you an open letter. Give them, then, to these men, and then answer us for what they have told you in Israel. As far as the boards are concerned, it would be simpler and fairer, Mr Secretary, to accept your responsibility for the inactivation of the university board you used to run. Mr. Bertsimas is not alone. All the people on the board testify that, with your stand, you have made the council work stronger. They all say so. You used to be proud of it in your party and now that the wind changes a little bit you say 'I don't have the blame'. It's not bold.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u93	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u94	I responded to the council you say, and of course they are people who live in Greece and obviously may have other motives mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u96	As far as Mr Bertsima is concerned, the reason he was quoted in writing is because he was abducted to specific responsibilities which were handed over to the Senate. These are prophecies in sins.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u97	The President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to inform the House that I have just met with the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr Jeronymou, who very gladly accepted the Prime Minister's proposal from the Step of the House to enter into a dialogue with the Church from the outset, in order to make a joint decision on the writing of the new books and possible changes to the Religious texts. I believe that this is a very important development, and indeed the Prime Minister and the government have demonstrated, but also the Makariot - as I believe it will be a decision of the Hierarchy - that in dialogue everything can be solved. There was a misunderstanding. I heard the speech of the Chief of Staff Response. Mr President, the letter you mentioned was sent to all of us. I got her, too. I'm presenting it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u99	Sure. I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u100	All right, all right. I am saying this because, as has been said, it appeared to be a personal letter. It was a letter that came to all parties and I certainly think we should all discuss with the Church. We, of course, consider that the Greek Constitution is specific. It refers to the indiscriminate ties of Orthodoxy to the state. Since the Constitution remains this, there is no reason to start any debate on separation of Church and State. Orthodoxy and Hellenism have gone hundreds of years together and such changes are changes that are not provided for by the Greek Constitution and changes with which the feeling of the Greek people does not agree. In addition to that, various original ideas have been heard today. I have already heard Mr Theodorakis say that we should have schools in the camps. This is forbidden by the law on non-getification of the European Union. European legislation only provides for this in a very specific case, when a natural disaster is being carried out and subject to special permission, so that there is no ghettoisation. So this kind of strange proposals I think the parties should study them before they put them to a debate in the House. Also, opinions such as the more general reference to whether the junta abolished private universities - I am in favour of private universities - I think that in 2016 they do not help in the public debate. In that sense, we could say that the junta also wanted to abolish the political youth that abolished them. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a discussion on education with a proposal from the New Democracy since 1 August 2016. It is indeed a debate which is due on a permanent basis to Parliament, because the question of education is a national issue. However, the Greek people must know the views of all parties clearly and not only in the debate on education but also in the debate on the resources of education. What was the programme of the Samara conflict - Venizelos, New Democracy - PASOK? The programme was the public commitment and signature of Mr. Samaras, the Head of the New Democracy, and Mr. Venizelos, the Head of the PASOK, that in 2018 the budget for education will reach 1.9% of GDP. The current government maintained the budget for education at 2.8% of GDP, almost 1% more than it promised to reach the PASOK and the New Democracy three years later. Secondly, with Mr Philly, you know that we have differences with regard to Religious Affairs, and we disagree publicly at some time, because that is the case with democracy. However, you cannot recognise that this year schools for the first time after too many years have been properly opened. I heard it was announced by the Acclaimed Opposition that the New Democracy - Mr. Mitsotakis - is probably not, because the New Democracy is not exactly, it has LAS officials inside, it is Mr. Samaras' staff with the extensions to the extreme right - will take all the children to kindergartens and nurseries. This year alone, twenty - thousands of young people entered the nurseries and kindergartens, by decision of this government. The money came from the TV licenses for the fifteen thousand. The five thousand were before. How will you take all the children when you, Mr President, announce to Thessaloniki at the IGC - and I have listened very carefully to your speech - that you will cut the EUR 800 million from education and health to reduce taxation? How is that possible? Instead of announcing increases in the budget, are you following the budget reduction programme of 1.9% of GDP, will you reduce further EUR 800 million from education and health to tax reduction, while all children will go to kindergarten? Unless we're only going to maintenance kindergartens and we're closing down all the other training. Close both primary and high school and college and stay in kindergarten. That's an interesting point of view. The debate on education needs to be held on many things. Of course, we must discuss proposals that have been tabled at times and to which this government is open to debate, such as linking production and education. Because indeed, the scientific staff we have in the country, despite the very hostile attitude of the Greek state, ranks worldwide in the fourteenth place. It's a very high position for what the state has done against educational staff. Nevertheless, the state in previous years, along with the funding of the European Fund, has only 0.5% of GDP in its programmes of excellence, while the average of the European Union is 2%, which is four times higher. Educational institutions with scientific staff, with teachers and students, can produce new scientific innovations which should be linked to production, i.e. existing Greek enterprises or to new job exchanges from students participating in the research programme, as well as teachers. That is why we have proposed, as Greeks, linking education to production. Incentives to new firms which have given rise to production the results of research and research centres and to research groups from higher education institutions and from the country's TEs, with employment in these scientists who have worked to achieve the result. Incentives, such as the deferral of a 50% tax on their entire obligation for a five-year period and their facilitation of access to low-interest lending up to 3% of the Development Bank we have proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u101	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u102	Because until now, Mr Bourras, unfortunately, the low-priced loans have been taken by the parties to avoid paying. They were calling from the Attica Bank...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u103	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u104	Now let me tell you what's going to happen. Now, Mr. Davakis, because you're asking me, the 14 million present you received from Mrs. Ziegolis, the director of Mr. Stakoura, from the Attica Bank, you will come to pay for them. Once you pay it, I'd be happy to take that money and pay the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u105	A classic Kammenos response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u106	You're gonna pay for it? I ask you, Mr. Davaki. Mrs. Couple do you know her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u107	I know her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u108	You've given Mr. Stoura some ruffles, I imagine. So this lady, without having a degree - because you are in favour of excellence - was appointed head of the Attica Bank's financial institution, who gave the 14 million in PASOK and the New Democracy. To see how the system was working at the Bank of Attica, we asked for an election in 2012 for 30,000 to issue our voting cards, because we had not yet taken state aid. And the answer was that it was rejected by the financing board. After you had taken the 14 million low-priced ones and paid nothing, now you come and talk about the Attica Bank. After you have appointed Mr. Stakouras' director to the loan benefits, now you come and say that there will be money for education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u109	You must be red when you talk about the Attica Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u110	When Psycharis took the tonsils 150 million and guaranteed the three underground in Kallithea, there was no money to go to education, neither should business incentives to promote research nor should young scientists be able to work. That's what this government does. This Interface of Postmultition strikes. Because there has been a talk here of complexion, I expect you to answer us about the results of the famous television competition. The government's best friends didn't get permission. And they didn't get permission. Your best friends have been cleared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u111	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u112	Don't you know that Mr. Marinakis is Mrs. Bakoyannis' best man? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We'll have a conversation, and I'll present you with photographs of marriages and baptisms. I came out clearly for my best man, and I said he shouldn't take the first time. And I fought it all the way. And he really didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u113	But he almost got.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u114	Your best man called. And he didn't just get the best man. He's taken, too, whoever fought the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u115	He first called.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u116	Who you mean. What's he got? It's cut. Did you see? Your best friends have endurance. Our people don't. Because they don't have any support. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, such a debate on the problem must be held. The word "SIEMENS" and "Christmas" has just been heard. Bluestone fell. We need to have this conversation sometime and we need to talk. We should testify for bars, photographs. Let's see who took the business, see who was treated friendlyly and who didn't. Let's see what this has to do, see who's doing it abroad. Let's see who's on the Lagard list. Let's see who they weren't collected and who we're collecting today. Because that's the difference with that government. And this debate, of course, must be held before the Greek people, because it is the money that is missing from education and health. And each one take responsibility for it. Of course, he will take responsibility for it when he makes specific proposals which can be applied to our country. This government in the midst of the economic crisis, and as you have handed over finances to education, has done much more than the governments have achieved over the past fifteen years. It stopped the gymnastics of the primary school with the multiple specialties of 33% of the timeline. The students' hours were reduced from seven hours to six hours, and the small students are more restful. The full-day school operates institutionally from 13.15" to 16.00" with a clear schedule. There has been streamlining of a curriculum with a quarterly design by the relevant committees. For the first time, permanent teachers and books waited for students in schools. The first time I saw a teacher appear before the beginning of the school year. Usually the teacher went near Christmas or had to go to the Furnus. That's the truth. And I told you, we're not doing opposition here, nor are we going to split up and find our political differences. In the differences we will be killed, but in education we have to agree, as in defence we have to agree. Ladies and gentlemen, I still want to see the question of higher education. Because, in fact, there is a problem and there is a problem, because the truth is that it is not just partisanism, it is a bad culture which has prevailed in higher education in recent years. And here I will tell you that there has been a lot of discussion about the great special wages and some proposals have come by saying that, for example, university professors should - it was the view of lenders - take more money and reduce the money from the Armed Forces and the Security Body. And the answer was, for university teachers, to look for in recent years which of them had participated in committees, who had taken money from European funds. Some have never received and indeed have low incomes, but some have become rich, chosen by the government. We need to see and measure how everyone works, because the Armed Forces are working 24 hours a day, just like the Security Bodies, are at risk of life, they have dead heroes in peacetime, and, of course, the battle that the Ministry of National Defence - and I want to make this clear, because yesterday I saw an attack on the Ministry of National Defence - they are also giving it to the Security Body, even to the Port Authority, and the Fire Force and the Police. And there's no point in mobilising your personal security to make demonstrations because yesterday I saw Mr. Tragakis' officer outside the Department of National Defence. For the first time I saw Mr. Vulgarakis wearing a uniform, shaved out of the Ministry of National Defence. We received an invitation to speak, and I even accepted it not as Minister of National Defence, but as Chief of the Independent Greeks with all joy, and I asked the officials of the Armed Forces, because there was no programming from the Ministry of Citizen Protection and from the Ministry of Shipping on the Equivalents, to help them and say what the lenders are proposing and we sat down and did a whole study. And instead of saying a thank you for the effort we are making and conflicting with other ministries, which are asking for increases in their own budgets, we have seen an attack on the Ministry of National Defence, because I am a political leader there. So I would ask you to leave micro-political games with national defence, to be able together, as in education, health, to have a common national policy, to be able to improve the legislative framework by means of a parliamentary dialogue, to modernise it and to leave the political confrontation for where we can do it. But where we can do it, you usually leave. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in this debate on education, we should at some point also include the question of military schools, because in military schools too, there must be a great deal of change. I would also like to raise, for the start of discussion, even the issue of introducing into the schools of the Armed Forces, in relation to those who want to take the career in the Armed Forces, about how they should get in. Of course, with pan-Hellenic tests, but in some direction that should be pre-selected. Because children who have the potential and want to follow this course, with the Armed Forces, do not have this possibility because others take their place, who put the schools of the Armed Forces as a requester along with other schools. And, of course, that is where we can reconnect research and the higher schools of the Armed Forces should give them the opportunity to have postgraduate studies. And those of the Armed Forces, who follow postgraduate schools, who are currently in the ranks of officers to be able to promote. All these issues will come within the next period of debate in Parliament. I would therefore ask the parties to come to the Ministry of National Defence or to come to the Committee of Parliament - whenever the President chooses - and discuss all these issues. So let us leave education outside the controversy. Let us recognize the work that this government has done. Let us say that the result following the Prime Minister's proposal and the acceptance of Makariot's side was a good development for everyone and let us all look at the future of our children not through party glasses, but through the national interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. He made a specific false reference to my face today, the President of the Independent Greeks following the leakage of SYRIZA cycles, and I would like the floor please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u118	Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days no one has been watching, especially today by cycles in the SYRIZA since the morning and by the President of the Independent Greeks, obviously all of those who have been in a ring, making certain false references to persons associated with me. It is obvious that they are beneath the environment of rot that they themselves have created and throwing rods to distract society's attention. I therefore explain, in relation to the Bank of Attica, which has made a specific, nominal reference to a person who has been my partner. First of all, Mrs. Ziggoli was and she's a bank executive. He resigned from the Office of the Deputy Minister of Finance on 2 January 2014 and returned to Piraeus Bank, where he came from. Other information: Head of the Internal Audit Unit at Attica Bank, Deputy Director General and Head of the Internal Audit Unit on 1 July 2014. From Piraeus Bank to Attica Bank. Therefore, when he took up an administrative position in the bank he was not a partner of the Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u120	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u121	Therefore, what is written "circles of SYRIZA" today and of Maximos is not valid, that at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u122	No "circles of SYRIZA", in the newspaper there is. You can sue the newspapers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u123	You should also read the leaks made, official leaks from Maximos. It is not therefore the case that it was also serving as a poster and executive in the bank as a position of increased responsibility. In addition, I note that Mrs Ziggoli remains in the same position as we are talking about today. If, therefore, there was any question of its functioning, as you mentioned, Mr President, why have you not replaced it with an administration that you have changed since last year? Having done what you say - if she has - why have you not replaced her from her position, since you changed her from last year to the board of directors very close to the current government? Secondly, because you have also involved the question of administration, Mrs Ziegoli, was an independent non-executive member of the board of directors of the Bank of Attica, as one of the representatives of the Greek State between 30-10 and 7-02-2014, by decision of the general meeting of shareholders, which is happening today. The general shareholders’ meeting, and today it is a decision. Most of the shares are held by CSMEDA. I would remind you that the President of the TEE from September '10 to January '15 was Minister Spirtz. Did he raise any objections? Was there any problem we didn't hear? Third point. We now go to the qualifications you mentioned. According to the a.d.63/2005 - which you should know - the appointment of a political director of a political office of a member of the Government or of a State Secretary, as well as to a special adviser or partner post suspends the exercise of their function or profession. In fact, therefore, this lady resigned from the bank, where she was working to take over the head of a political office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u124	From the board of directors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u125	Participation in a board of directors shall not constitute a function or profession.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u126	They admit it! He was on the board and the minister's office at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u127	It is therefore not forbidden for a person holding a post as Director of a political office, a special adviser or a partner to participate in the board of directors. [[Noise from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Before laughing, you should know that the public has been detained by such persons who are close to ministers. The public is now being blocked by such persons. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Fourthly and lastly, as far as the formal qualifications of this lady are concerned. According to e.g. 63/2005 in order to hold a post in a political office, there is a need for a school degree or a department of HEI in the country or an equivalent foreign higher school, or for a high school or special high school. Therefore, there was no problem of formal qualifications for the appointment of a posted official. As regards the FEK of its appointment, its ranking and payroll was made on the basis of the Staff Code and the existing provisions of the laws of 2011 and 2012. In other words, answers can be found in the services of the bodies in which he served and serves. In conclusion, I call on the Government to stop approaching the issues of the public sphere by means of a communication targeting and lightly against the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u128	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u129	And I will close with what the Prime Minister started his prototype: 'You represent the darkness'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, please allow me to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u131	You have the floor for a short time not to shade this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u132	Just a few seconds, Mr. President. First of all, the answer you gave is confirmation of the newspaper's report, with an effort to praise the lady who took the stand on the board. I also answer you with the simple question. Don't answer that, will everyone understand that: Who are qualified bank employees, would they take board seats if they weren't your principal? Let's go tomorrow morning to file the application. [[Laughers from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Now, when it comes to not being replaced enough executives, I will tell you that this government at least has not shown any intention to prosecute anyone who served in another office. Maybe we should see some people who've put key positions on what they're still doing. That's what you're right about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u134	But don't extend it, Mr. Stakoura. You have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u135	Not a minute, Mr. President. On my arguments, no answer! And with regard to what you said about the boards of directors, please refer to the last board of directors of the Attica Bank in your government, see the members. That's where you'll find very interesting evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has the floor. Please, until the President comes, despite the fact that it is not customary for anyone to take the floor on the substance, just to revise a historical truth - Mr Theodorakis will be listening, he may be younger, and that is why he does not know it - because he said that the juntas have interrupted the trend towards private universities, I would like to say that one of the legends of '72 and '73 of the development of the anti-diplomatic student movement was the revelation, on behalf of the students, of the beginning of two foreign-language universities to exist in Athens. In other words, this is a historic event and it is right. It has nothing to do with it. Perhaps Mr Theodorakis does not know well. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your absence, Mr Mitsotakis, for leaving first and foremost Mr Tsipras, who left second. Perhaps the burden of arguments is dissatisfied. We'll see. Of course, I'm sure they'll hear from the halls and listen well. Because, as someone had said to me, "some people are rushing to listen to you, Mr. Leventis, and those who are selfish and do not want to hear you, listen to you from the charms and with the end of sound." I would like to say to Mr Mitsotakis that his relative was the forgiven Bakoyannis. I said it yesterday. And the announcement made by Kyriakos and Dora that it was a monument of consensus and composition that was forgiven. Is the image of today's New Democracy an image of consensus? I leave the Members who are listening, to judge whether it is a picture of consensus. One journalist asked one of our Members: 'As soon as you are in favour of privatization as the Union of Centres, why didn't you vote yesterday on the prerequisites?' And is the New Democracy not also in favour of privatisation? Why didn't he vote yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u138	May the gentleman answer there...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u139	Not you, sir. I'm not addressing you. I look at you, but I'm not addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u140	Please, Mr Papadopoulos, today be a press and signatory when the President speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u141	Let's not start the dialogue. It must be my glance somewhere. Let us talk a little about education and we shall then make a reference to other issues, which are still in progress. As far as education is concerned, Mr Mitsotakis, whom I have listened carefully, made a very nice speech about one another. All those years in the government, didn't they know that? So, when did they think of this in the New Democracy? And they'll make - he says - and a program. A party like New Democracy, of course, will make a revised programme sooner. But it was supposed to be a party that ruled a few months ago. Shouldn't he have a curriculum for education? Mr. Arvanitopoulos did well with his obsessions? Because the universities have told me he was obsessed with some things. Did he do well? If he did well, why don't you say "we're going to do what Arvanitopoulos did, they were wonderful and you bad guys changed them"? To say that it needs a new education plan, it means that what you did by December 2015 that you were in the government was, not to say what it was. You confess yourself. That's how I feel it. Education is an object, which does not pick up every time, a Minister to tear down the previous ones, because if we keep going, we are afflicting youth. If the National Broadcasting Council wants 4/5, did education want 4.5/5? Because it's an area where every minister can't come and what his head cuts out to do. He had to respect the rest of Parliament's wings, social institutions, universities, students, students, parents. So here we have a situation, every government thinks that it is wrong for the previous ones and that it builds up others and every opposition to promise that it will break down what the government does to do other things. I believe that, if we ever change the Constitution - which I see no change this time, we will not have time to make progress - on issues such as foreign policy and education, we must make conditions for Parliament to want 4/5 to change something, so that we can get serious and not play with society. Some talked about private universities and that they have been delayed in becoming private universities. First, he has to leave, get rid of the party from the state universities and then go to the private. Because if the party cultures are maintained in universities and we license privately, it will happen as with the ERT, when the ERT was the only channel. When we gave private permits, ERT was a party. And what did the private channels do? They gave three-fold, four-fold wages to the ERT executives, and the ERT joined them. And now one thing was maintained only by PPC accounts of Greek citizens. The transition to private universities is very important. We need to exalt the state first. Otherwise, we'll destroy both state and private. Today I was sent a piece of paper for the ERT. Here's what's wrong with ERT. They sent me a document and asked for fifty-three people, because the administration cannot work. In particular, they have no journalist correspondent in Paris, Moscow and Rome. I mean, if anything happens in Moscow, ERT doesn't have a reporter. They don't have a reporter. They don't have any presenters. The ones they have are few and they put all of them all in all the papers. He doesn't have a skilled editor, so that in all the news and live emissions he immediately puts the inscription underneath. So they ask for fifty-three people, but they cannot take them if the Minister responsible does not approve. And so, ERT's all-engineering and sickening. He cannot broadcast news from Paris and copy from others. That's ERT. It has an excess in other sectors and a lack of qualified personnel. And they begged me to recommend it to the government. I propose it responsibly because I have seen that a channel cannot be so large as to have no correspondents. They also told me from abroad that they want to see ERT. In America, Canada and Australia, they haven't seen ERT for two years since Samaras closed it. They don't have a picture of ERT in Australia and America. And it's like people are prisoners. To hear news, they call their relatives. And they are insisting that the subject of satellite transmission of the ERT programme, at least one channel, for example, should be resolved quickly. I would like to put it to the Minutes, with the official request of Mr Papapa, that you cannot have for all two and a half thousands of employees and staff, have all the managers you want and do not have specialists. [[At this point, the President of the Union of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The subject of private universities I think we've solved it. The Centro Association agrees that private universities should be licensed, but after leaving the parties from the universities and that state universities can operate on such criteria as they can be competitive. No, I don't know who we're going to leave if we start now private universities - permission from a Caloris. As in private TVs, I always understood, to put a businessman on every channel, but to have inside the blog and the church and the Municipality of Athens or other municipalities of the country, the Niarchus Foundation. Not to do what he wants - let's say - Marinakis. Being on the blog and institutions that are vigilant of one's immunity. The government did not understand that and Mr. Pappas made some mistakes. I hope - in order to close this issue - that Mr Tsipras should correct it - that he thinks it should be corrected - not to close the channel, in my opinion, but to get the same money from everyone. In other words, these 60 million, which on average everyone gave, to take from the rest to work, but to set hard conditions, to see who will stand. That's my opinion. Let the Prime Minister consider it, because the canals case is also concerned with the homosexuals. They're asking me, in a suspicious style, why they're closing channels, where the government is looking. Well, since the government claims to be innocent of blood, I say my view, since it is for a decade 60 million - so it is 6 per year - to have an annual rental of 6 million and let it continue to work. But to get in conditions to work on the PSE. I ask for repeated announcements from Mr. Voutsi to take an initiative to reconstitute the PSE and not put SYRIZA people into the composition, but put people of prestige who cannot question them. And so we will all vote, there will be an PSE, so that these licences, which will be issued through the tender, will also be legally issued by the PSE, as laid down in the Constitution. That is my view. Mr Tsipras, here he has arrived, has come to Europe - because before he comes to Europe, remember what Tsipras was, would beat Merkel, etc. - and saw some things. In these things he saw, he must have seen that consensus and composition are the first. They were yelling at me and told me "why is Mitsotakis and Tsipras not accepting a government for three years, putting technocrats in the finance ministries, in order to solve the finances?" Foreigners are being disfellowshiped with the poverty and misery that exists in Greece. I said to them: ‘There are two egos here, the ego of Mr. Tsipras, who must claim that we are going to a larger government, and the ego of Mitsotakis, which says: ‘Now I have, by the vote that Fofi gave, fifty bonus seats, now why should I consent? I'll let Tsipras be demolished, so I can come." So we have the Mitsotakis hoisting self-resistance and preventing composition. I explained the difficulties, namely, that there are egos. But now we're going to ego the egos over the country? Do you expect investment - and I am addressing Mr Tsipras - to come in - with the hundred and fifty-three votes that are also being tabled and the ones which are threatening? I don't know how they calm down at the end. To a certain point they calm down, but I don't know until they calm down and for how long. Maybe the government lives, has the declared one, but did you see any investor coming? How are we going to solve the country's economic problem? Taking VAT on the islands and taking from heating oil or taxing on pay-TV? Is that how we solve the financial problem? Would not all Parliament's wings be happier if there were a climate-change government and gave an image of political stability and we entered a development period? Or would all the wings of the House be more proud? I think that Members should not feel disadvantaged if there is a better government. It is a sacrifice, which society will appreciate, in my humble opinion. Mrs Fotou said here - I was now brought before I came to a statement - that most civil servants in the ministries are doing nothing. I don't know if it's true or if the words were forsaken. I have asked the nine points to check how many slow-wages are in the public sector. That's what I've asked. Mr. Mitsotakis at the time who was about to throw away five to ten thousand - how many he pushed away - instead of looking at who the conscientious and who the slow-walkers are and dismissing the slow-walkers, banished people, right and unfairly, and travelled in the museums, because everyone had another four years, another five years until his pension, and smoked cigarettes and read newspapers where they were taken from OSE and from there. Some of them were working. Some might not have worked. But he removed conscientious ones. That's not a clearance. Clearance is to track down the unconscious, the slow pay. This is what foreigners are asking for, reducing spending, not kicking out the conscientious, on which we will base the country's change. I would like to quote this in the Minutes, because if these statements are true, it is the government's duty to examine one of the nine articles of the Centro Association, which says 'the identification of slow-win companies and the closure of ghost companies that are still in existence'. Why pay them? Why should we pay? [[At this point the President of the Association of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Mitsotakis went to Thessaloniki, claiming he has a new financial programme. In his financial programme it is to cut HISPHA by 30% and reduce taxes. We all want taxes to be reduced. But when does a government increase taxes? When he doesn't have sources from elsewhere, he puts taxes. Because the Minister of Finance waits every month to close the month without unpleasant surprises. This is the task of the Finance Minister, looking at the result of every month and much more every quarter. So if Mr Mitsotakis also cuts HISH - receipts - he also cuts taxes, where will he get money? He'll bring investments, he'll answer. If we ask him now, "Why the New Democracy, which was two years old, did not bring any investment?", he will tell us from now on, the others were incompetent, Mitsotakis is capable. The well-known, everyone's capable. However, it is also the fact that it participated in a government that did not bring up a single investment. I have nothing with Mitsotakis. Honestly, I have absolutely nothing. But yesterday I saw a hate against the government. A hate that said "cut it off, cut it off, while you adopted four months ago something, remove it now". They're right. And what do you suggest? Shall we go to Grexit? Well, you guys get in there. If Tsipras is awake, to hold elections right now, to come and see how you'll cut HIS and reduce taxes and stay in the euro. If he is stupid - let me say so - he will sit at his Golgotha and collapse, because the problems are so great that not Tsipras, but I fear that not even a hundred Chippers will be able to lift the burden. I'm telling you. You may have an opposite view. But I'm warning Mr. Tsipras, because I'm going out and talking to people, that the world is uncooperative anymore. People swear on politicians. It does not cooperate, to say ‘However, this measure is good, if it is time-consuming’. People have come to their conclusion that in this Chamber they do not share their problems. And you know, if such a conclusion is reached, we will find it very difficult to bring the people back to policy again. You should know that. In his speech yesterday, Mr. Theodorakis of Potamio said that I was a frequency misinterpretation, that I sold the channel, and then I had neither a tax nor a IKA. First, I would like to ask why he remembered it seventeen years later? Why didn't he remember for seventeen years? Secondly, why didn't he look at others who sold channels? Since you want me to tell the room because I sold the channel, I'll say it. I haven't revealed it another time. They sent me three papers from PASOK to shut me down. He had made an effort, and Mitsotakis tried to shut me down, because I said to one last - as I thought it was - a show of those curses that I apologized for. They sent me papers that frequency is for the Army, and I shouldn't be using it. This is because I did various broadcasts on the "distance" at the time, on Mitsotakis. Reppas, I don't know why he was sending me cards. On my despair, because I didn't have any support at that time, and my party was very small, I found a man who was fighting, and that's why I gave the channel. I would never give it to me, because it was my passion, it was the only way I had to communicate with the world. When I founded the channel, I founded it because I wasn't accepted by any intertwiners. They didn't accept me anywhere in my opinion, while Mr. Theodorakis was through the luxury channels. I respect him. I don't have anything with him, but this retarded attack on me is bad. Why so badly? It's my fault that it's politely demolished? It's my fault? I give my race 4% to do it - I know - 8%, 10%, as the world says, to raise the Central Association. I always speak politically, and if I turned against the River and Mrs Fofi Gennimata, I turned because I think it was a crime that they did not vote on simply proportionally. Because if the appetite for self-reliance from New Democracy continues, it is due to the vote of Mrs Gennamas. I speak politically. I didn't go to hit the genome or theodorakis under the belt. I, too, accept them and respect them tomorrow, and I do not exclude them, if the Treaties allow them to do so and the situation is reviewed, that there should also be any form of cooperation. Why do I take that attack? In any case, I am sorry for some people whom I appreciate and of whom I would expect superiority. I didn't attack. I speak politically. The simple analogue I supported, I said, and Tsipras, because forty years I grew up with it, for her I live, and because Alexander Papastassiou in his conquest said that a state without just analogy is not a democratic state. I also explained it in Izmir, where I was, to Mr Athanasios - I do not know if he is here - of the New Democracy. He told me that I, too, accept that the mere analogy is the most honest thing, he just says, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it. I said that when Karamanlis returned from Paris in 1974, he brought sixty-five bonus seats into his backpack. Mitsotakis can now, if there's a review, just like I've told you. That is why I will not let Mr Tsipras - as far as I can - make a review. I will not participate, because Mr Tsipras can review, if we put an article in the form of a review, the simple bonus article, and pass it with a hundred and fifty one, the enhanced one. If the next House becomes a review, the next House with a hundred and fifty one can pass the enhanced one, and while here in the House we talked about the possibility of adopting simple ones, be in front of eighty bonus seats. And then, let me see in how many decades there will be a debate on just proportional! I'm talking politically, and I want you to understand that. I appreciate you, I don't have anything with anyone. I just walked into the House to get some new ideas and they're the ones that I'm trying to multiply and reproduce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. The Minister of Education, Mr. Nikos Friends, has the floor. Minister, you will have ten minutes now and ten minutes later in dentistry, but there will be flexibility in all the debate either way. But you, too, should restrain yourself. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed come here today, not with the intention of dispute, but with the intention of tabling our programme and our work, to formulate our disagreements, but above all to seek consensus and understanding. Through disagreements, what we call the common good, the common place for education, may arise. Unfortunately, it is difficult to reach such a consensus when we are in front of a front of a risk, disaster - all SYRIZA destroyed it in a year and a half, everything has been well in previous years - when Mr Mitsotakis' basic programme announcement is that if the people make the mistake and bring it to the government, they will cancel it all. So everyone understands how hypocritical and insinuating the search for a consensus on education is from the point of view of Officer Responsibility. We are, however, judged by our work, first of all. We've been government for a year and a half. Opening schools is the first step towards returning to normality. After many years, schools opened up with teachers and books on time. Twenty - four million school books had been sent to schools since July. By September 24th, about 12 thousand alternates were hired, for the first time via ASP, when on the corresponding date of 2012-2013 only a thousand four hundred thirty alternates were recruited. In view of the fact that the government has now obtained some twenty-one thousand credits for substitutes, we will continue the necessary appointments until the needs are fully met in the next year. For the first time, we prioritised the recruitment for Special Education. For the 2016-2017 school year we set up five hundred and thirty-eight new departments of integration in primary and secondary schools and twenty-three new school units of Special Education and Education. I present to Parliament a table showing in the years of the Memorandum, from 2010 until today, what is the relationship between recruitment of assistant teachers to this day that we are talking about. This year, compared to 2010-2011, we have more recruitment by 34.96%. Compared to 2011-2012, we have more recruitment this year by 61.76%. Compared to 2012-2013, we have 89.51% more recruitments. Compared to 2013-2014 we have 712% more recruitments. Compared to 2014-2015 we have 38% more recruitments. And last year, of course, there was the decision of the Council of State which prevented the recruitment from taking place earlier. This year, then, the figures are inconsistent, the schools have started with their teachers, and these are the elements I submit for the Minutes of Parliament, compared with the previous years. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that in 2011 the schools operated without books and only with photocopies, because this is how the Minister of Education of PASOK understood modernisation and excellence at the time. It also worked with thousands of teachers ’ gaps, and they merged, often violently, hundreds of schools. In the next few years, by hand, Mr Mitsotakis, two and a half thousand teachers have been made available, in the form of a semi-dismissal regime, so that many parts of the ESDP are closed down and private IEK is scandalously favoured. In September 2014, the year began with the call of the then Minister of Education and the executive of PASOK to work for voluntary retired teachers to fill gaps. If, then, one thinks about what has happened in these schools over the past few years, one can appreciate this year's result of the organized effort to reorganise and upgrade education. If there was one gap, it would be a central issue in the news reports. And I have to say that this very situation explains why, after eleven years, the MRB's barometer shows that there is an increase in public appreciation and interest in public education. Since the 55% that was in December 2014, 68.5% has been up in June 2016. The necessary response to chronic operational problems is a prerequisite for democratic educational reform. Our goal is a school of quality and equality, and these two quality elements of the school were even more tested during the time of the crisis. Without equality, however, there is no quality and without quality there is no equality. In the context of Parliament's Committee on Morphic Affairs, as well as the Committee on the National Social Dialogue, an important task was carried out in the past few months. People from all over the political spectrum participated, political, fighting teachers, but also technocrats, as they are called. The difference was considered to be wealth and the reason and the dialogue did not start and, as was the case before, did not end in a dispute over universities. On the other hand, the dialogue at both committees' meetings provided concerns about primary, secondary, general, technical, special and tertiary education. I am presenting to you the findings of the Committee of the National and Social Dialogue chaired by Professor Antonis Liakou, as well as the conclusions of the Committee on Morphotic Affairs of the Parliament under the chairmanship of our colleague, Mr Kostas Gavroglou. These are the conclusions of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and that is the conclusion of the committee under Mr Liako. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The reforms set out in these conclusions aim to modernise the operation of the school, but mainly to transform it into a place that offers the joy of knowledge and discovery to students by preparing students and not competitors, preparing pupils as democratic citizens, to reaffirm the priority of public education in the course of national reconstruction. We are working on a comprehensive three-year plan for education reform. We note its three priorities: first, a ten-year compulsory education and a change in high school, to provide circular education for all children. We have already abolished the body of examinations, which turned high school into an examination centre and undermined the educational process. Parenthesis: Which country has been praised for its educational system? Finland. Do you know when Finland's children are taking tests for the first time? Sixteen of them. Desperate effort! The tests increased the anxiety of children and shrinked the useful teaching time. We support collaborative and experiential teaching and alternative ways of assessing children's progress. The Institute for Educational Policy has the responsibility for this change, which has been reorganised and operates effectively under the chairmanship of Professor Gerasios Kouzelis. The second axis of the three-year period: the abolition of the pan-Hellenic examinations for HEIs. This involves a change in at least the last two grades of high school, as well as changes in tertiary education. While in high school children will be taught courses in range, in high school they will focus and they will be taught in depth. We are also studying the proposal to be introduced into schools and not in classes in higher education. The current way of accessing universities has exhausted its potential and unscrupulously unleashed popular families. This House can and must end up in the new way of accessing children to universities with broad consensus, because changes in education and, in particular, the way of access to higher education are not a matter of four years' time. I have heard it from other speakers, and I am pleased to note that. I propose - and I hope that I have the agreement of all the parties here - that this crucial issue should be entrusted to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which, taking advantage of the conclusion of the Dialogue Committee, should reach definitive conclusions on how to enter universities in a reasonable period of time so that children in high school should know which system they are going to enter the universities. The third axis is the single area for research and training, to which Mrs Anagnostopoulou will be referred in detail. As far as private HEIs are concerned, the panacea of private universities is projected by some. They consider that the wrong texts will be corrected in public HEIs and a market for educational opportunities will be developed. We heard them here today. Those who support this show a deep ignorance of European reality, where private universities are not part of their educational culture. Their number is very small and most of them are downgraded. On the contrary, public universities both in Europe and in our country, with mixed financial systems, are far ahead of their level. What else does it indicate that graduates of public universities are so wanted in Europe? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do not deceive the public university! Don't slander it! Do not present it as a lamb of violence and lawlessness! The public university, which the state has ignored, is trying to support it in many ways. We believe that we should not be subjected to neoliberal dogmatism and populism, according to which all public is problematic and inferior, while all private is superior. It is a populism that often hides selfishness, even if we still have an anachronism, back in 1864. But then, if you read, the Constitution did not talk about private universities. He was talking about primary and secondary schools. As regards the overall plan, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed and renegotiated with the OECD to draw up a new report, which will contribute to the implementation of our new political priorities. The 2011 report, also known as Diamantopoulou report, is a report that was based on pre-crisis data and has essentially been working out extreme neoliberal choices of past governments. This report is a past. This is persuasive of many domestic dogmatic neoliberals. It has been accepted by the institutions, with whom we are in an overall debate, which includes new appointments and increased funding for education. The three-year plan can be combined with the gradual release of education by the monitoring of institutions. After all, education policy in accordance with European legislation is the subject of national policies. I listened with interest to what Mrs Gennimata said, that she too wants education not to be in the Memorandum and that in their time - in the days of the PASOK and the New Democracy governments - it was not. Look, the Diamantopoulou Report 2011, which I mentioned earlier, is the personalisation of the memorandum. We have submitted to the institutions an integrated study on the necessity of twenty-thousand appointments in the next three years, starting from time to time, with a new appointing system. Since this year the appointing regime has been broken by the appointment of four hundred seventy instructors of the 2008 AACC tender. The gradual increase in public funds for education is necessary in order for Greece to converging with the average of the euro area. The increase in expenditure will follow the general trend in GDP growth. What does Mr. Mitsotakis say to us today? That it is easy to go beyond the objectives of the memorandum, that is without the institutions asking it to make cuts in health and education 700 to 800 million euros? This is a challenge of enormous proportions, a direct confession that the New Democracy under the leadership of Mr Mitsotakis now has as a central political objective the collapse of the social state. I would like to present to the Minutes of the House the relevant statement by Mr Mitsotakis in his interview with SKAI, as well as what he said in Thessaloniki on the same subject. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reform is based on confidence in teachers. Those aren't words. It's an act. With the SYRIZA Government, a climate of freedom and democracy has returned to education. The punishing assessment has been abolished. The available dismissals were reintroduced and with them over eight thousand students and particularly students in technical education. Teachers were given the opportunity to participate in the selection of school directors. The previous ones were elected by 85%, which confirms that we did not create a statute, but trusted teachers' vote. Religious education reform seeks to strengthen the association of teachers in order to demonstrate the autonomy of school units and to limit state centralisation. The training of teachers is also being reintroduced this year, their continuing training for both content and teaching issues. We plan for schools to be open to society, to be cultural reference points for the neighbourhood. We look forward to cooperation with the Local Government. Finally, we have made progress in guaranteeing the basic rights of private teachers, which is a precondition for the credibility of private education, because threatened and feared teacher, a teacher who questioned dignity, cannot be an example for children. We have also moved on to the recognition of insurance rights for tens of thousands of educators in schools. Previously I saw here in the Chamber - she has left - Mrs Giannakou and I wished her a good recovery. I take the occasion from her presence to say that the Ministry of Education, after several years, is ready to implement the Giannakou law on irregular degrees. It is another practical proof that our Ministry does not, for the sake of other purposes, postpone the resolution of outstanding issues. I would also like to tell you what has been said about private schools, that we do not let them have jobs and activities this afternoon. Yesterday, two days ago, the East Attica Department approved the request of 15 private schools to have parallel activities this afternoon. That's not forbidden. What we want to be clean is that those who work outside the school framework should also be declared at the Private Education Department and the other relevant Ministries and of course those who work outside will be paid out. We do not want to see private schools in the private sector, for reasons that the care owners themselves have mentioned, for unbelievable competition, as they have said. Refugee. We face with social sensitivity, democratic solidarity and a plan for the education of children of refugees. Every child has the right to education while staying in our country. The state has responsibility and not bad representatives of local groups. Society has responded to refugees, has reacted to marginal xenophobic behaviour. He doesn't want kids in a ghetto, but kids in schools, at first in the afternoon reception classes. With the funding of the International Organisation for Migration and the European Union, as well as of Greek resources, because it is an obligation of the Greek state, we are starting from October 10 the training programme of two thousand students in reception classes in the afternoon from seven hosting centres in neighbouring schools in Attica, Macedonia and Epirus. Ladies and gentlemen, today's eventuality has, in a way, ignored the subject of the religious lesson, the new programs of the religious lesson that have been implemented since this year in primary and secondary education. I stress that this is not a state-Church conflict. I say this again, it is not a conflict of state - Church, because from such a conflict - we know it from the past on other occasions - it does not win any side, it does not win the people themselves. The new religious programs have been prepared by a committee of the Institute for Educational Policy, involving distinguished theologians and in dialogue with representatives of the Church. They have been taught pilots in specific schools for three years, namely New Democracy and PASOK. The time has come, as agreed, to be assessed and implemented. Religious in confession, religious instruction becomes a lesson in religion, of course with priority in orthodoxism, with what is a broader subject. It's the Orthodox civilization. The programs will be implemented this year and will be evaluated by the Institute of Education Policy, as is the case with all the courses, so that new books can be released from time. Religiouss are a lesson, such as everything else in the context of the reforms, and we promote modernisation and improvement, namely the targeted change of all lessons. The Church is provoking a disgusting reason. This isn't the first time. And for the existing books, it had disagreed, but the then PASOK government did not take it into account and proceeded to implement them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u144	You're short, Minister, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u145	The state has responsibility for education. School is cosmic, it's inexhaustible, it's neutral. It is not just the constitutional requirement or the decisions of the Council of Europe that stress such a lesson about religious in schools. It is the reality of today’s school class, multi-religious and multi-ethnic in many cases, which requires a lesson in knowledge of all religions. It is the modern world, where religions play a strong role. We have designed a lesson that will also be attractive, because it will be taught by modern teaching methods and not by turning the room into some kind of lamb. I heard the political leaders who spoke. I don't understand what Mr. Mitsotakis proposes. It is the responsibility and responsibility of the state to decide when and what lesson it will learn at school or is the responsibility of other institutions, for example. The Church? I would like a clear answer to that. I have also not heard any other suggestions. Mrs. Gennimata said there are other suggestions. We appreciated them all, not me, but the LPD. And the program that was selected was primarily formulated in the era of PASOK governance. That's clear. The truth is I didn't hear anything from the Secretary-General of the JRC. I'm just pointing it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u146	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling on the Minutes of the House with democratic responsibility, but also pride as Minister of Education, the new religious programmes. Also, I present the Memorial of the Theological School of the University of Thessaloniki, which advocates changing religious programs. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question. Why does the Church react? I have not read the letter that the Archbishop sent today, but there is this question. Why does the Church react? I understand. This isn't the first time. When there are mature social changes, the Church wants to have its own role and reason and reaction. This isn't the first time. The changes, however, because they are mature, also go on because the Church knows that it must work positively and constructively, with the aim of unity, does not insist on its reaction. Some madmen may insist, but not the large majority represented by the Church. I'll remind you of some cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u148	Please include them in your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u149	I'm not done, I'm sorry. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u150	No, wait a minute, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u151	I can talk, because everyone spoke a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u152	Don't tell me what others did. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u153	But let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u154	Finish this, but in the second floor you will speak for two minutes. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u155	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u156	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u157	I want to remind you of the ID adventure. I want to remind you of the reaction to the new family law with abortion and civil marriage. And to remind even earlier the Church's reaction to the decision of the then Minister of National Defence Evangelos Averov to recognise rights of conscience dissenting to Jehovah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u158	Chief of State at the moment, there's no consciousness of the situation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. All our efforts are to make the public school even better, a school of quality and equality. In the years of the crisis, education and social inequalities have deteriorated. Based on the theory of excellence, the percentage of children was limited by the popular and middle classes who went to higher education and increased the percentage of children from the classes of wealthy and educated. These conclusions are based on an investigation by ELSTAT, as well as on a European research 'PISA'. We do not want a few schools for excellence and a large majority of schools to be degraded. We want all the public schools to be perfect. We do not want students to be treated as customers, as Mr Mitsotakis has described them. We don't want schools running on coupons. We do not want the state to leave schools and give coupons for parents - having - the public or private school of their children, thus creating schools I, II and III class, making the right to knowledge merchandise, degrading teachers, sowing discrimination against children, often xenophobia. This is the international experience of the coupons discussed by Mr Mitsotakis. We are defending the public school in the neighborhood, this conquest of the social state and democracy. We do not want the market to be the education assessor. Therefore, any evaluation should be based on educational criteria, to assess the state's response to educational needs. The collective form of self-assessment of school units is essential. We know that the democratic reform based on education, which seeks education equality and quality for pupils, is on the reverse of the neoliberal dogmatisms that our society has paid so much in recent years. And yes, we don't hide it, we unleashed these certainties, those abscessions that existed in the body of education. We continue on the long path of the education reform which has not been carried out, as was the melancholy shown by the infamous Alexis Diaras, of the reform that has to continue, because otherwise it does not go any further and falls. The Left Government is inspired by the work and vision of the great reformists, internationally and in our country, inspired by the democratic school and the social issue. We are inspired by Dimitris Glinos, Alexandros Delmouzos, Manolis Triantafylides, Rosa Impriotis, Costas Sotirios, Michael Papamavros, Evangelos Papanoutsos and many other pioneer priests of education. The old objectives are today being presented and renewed within a horizon of innovative democratic actions, for which the role of education and education remains central. The democratic educational reform reintroduces our country into a Europe of knowledge, research, innovation, ultimately in a Europe of democracy and solidarity. We have demonstrated that we can step by step and lead the country there, combining operational management with change and vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Deputy Minister for Education, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, also has the floor for ten minutes, which will be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u161	Can I keep them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u162	That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today one of the most important debates is taking place in this House, which concerns education, which the New Democracy seeks to show in a context of confrontation between modernization forces and reform - as it claims to be itself and its partners - and the forces of regression and counter-reformism, as it seeks to demonstrate that it is the government and especially SYRIZA. But let us also see what Mr Mitsotakis said today, here in Parliament, what he means by the terms'reform' and'modernisation'. Does it mean the public free good that a democratic state must guarantee as a right to all citizens, or does it mean the education - a commodity with which the state ensures the law of the customer and the owner? Does he mean a neoliberal turn, which turns education structures into businesses? I will try a little to analyse his speech, showing what the reform plan of the New Democracy is and what is ours, as has been implemented for almost two years, not two years. Firstly, Mr Mitsotakis mentioned Mr. Mitsotakis as a major reformist part of the n. 409, which he said he would bring back, for our Reform government took him back or ripped him out. I would like to say three things, three comments on this law, because we seem to be forgetting in this country very easily. Firstly, the law was an ideological platform and was not of a regulatory nature. I'm not saying it. It is called a professor of law, Mr. Klamaris, in his opinion of 10-06/2012. It was published in the "Legal Step", Volume 60, issue 4, p. 2624-30. Mr. Clamaris is not an imaginable Syrian. I guess for the people they know, they're on the rival camp from SYRIZA. Secondly, these own parliamentary groups who voted by a overwhelming majority for this law, within a minimum period of time, have started to pour it out. Just to remind and testify to the House as a sample of Mr Arvanitopoulos's L. 4076/2012, with which the eruption of this law was also inaugurated to solve various problems. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Third point. Even where this law was considered to be innovative, provisions for rules of procedure and for institutions came the same neoliberal reformists to show their limits. Mr. Mitsotakis told us that these were the law innovations and the presidential decrees are awaiting the Ministry of Education. I would remind you that Mr Mitsotakis, as Minister of Administrative Reform at the time, was returning with a date of 22-12-2014, unwritten draft Presidential Decrees on the approval of university organizations, because the procedure that had to be observed only one year after the publication of n. 4009, it was a process that abolished it, making it the void of regulation content. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If that is the case, if today's Qualifying Opposition itself - then government - ripped off this law, where is the reform of this law? And while we shouldn't be dealing with him today, he comes back and comes back as a great reformist incision. We are well aware that the great reform incision, as New Democracy claims, but also the PASOK, etc., was the Foundation Councils, as planned at the time. I stress that. I am not going to refer to the Foundation Councils itself. I shall refer to what and why they have provoked such a conflict and why they are today appearing as a reformist incision. What did they inaugurate in the HEIs and what did they intend for the very political and social reality? This is what people, members of the Foundation Councils, have nothing to do with this. It was the perception and inspiration of the institutions' councils and the responsibilities given to them at the time. Self-employed under the Constitution - Article 16(5) - was implemented by the 1982 Act. For what it means, 'individual', I will be back in a little while and I will tell you. Of course, a lot has happened between 1982 and 2011. And party rule has been in universities and conflicts of interest and violence and what one wants to say. But can anyone say here today, in this Chamber and with the extreme right, a neo-nazi formula here, that the crisis we have in the political system must lead us to a shrinking of democracy? Do we have to say that, because there is a crisis in the political system, we also need less democracy? This is what Law 4009 did with the councils and with the responsibilities he predicted to give them. It was the abolition of the self-employed of universities and analogous to that time a reminder that democracy must shrink. Does anyone think in this Chamber today that the Prime Minister should be pre-selected? Is there any idea today that the House, in proportion to the Senate, should be supervised and controlled by a Chamber of Experts and Excellence outside the community itself? Mr Mitsotakis told us - or someone else, I don't remember, I'm sorry, if I'm mistaken - that the governors can't run. Imagine this by analogy in democracy if we said that the people cannot vote because it is not the one who can elect those who will rule and those who are elected will not come from them. I will simply close - and I will end with the councils, because we could have another fruitful debate - by recalling that at the time the councils are planning with these responsibilities, we are at a time when the idea of university being a business, the hospital being a business, and the state - if possible - is diffuse. Remember the government of Papademos. In Greek and European tradition the course of the political system was never unrelated to the course of the administration of universities. This is why the self-employed enters the Constitution of Greece, which is why it seals the great change of page towards democracy. It is not our fault, therefore, that the councils as members of people who came from abroad unselfishly and all of this, but the undermining and role given to these management boards. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I am sorry, Mr President, that no one can speak when this whole mob is done. I'm sorry! It's a question of democracy. We're not in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u164	Please be quiet. There's a tiredness, too, maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u165	I get it, but we're tired, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u166	We have two hours in front of us, at least, a procedure. Please be calm. Madam Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u167	I will end with this by saying only that the inauguration of the university model - a company hostile to the principle of academic freedom, so toward academic freedom itself, to democracy itself, is no coincidence that - no matter how reformative the law was - it brought back or did not drive away, it did not repeal Article 120 not of the 1982 Act, but of Law No 5343/1932 and kept it in the freezer Article 81 of 400. This article, in the 120th of 1932, is this article that limited the freedom of students, of those who were substitutes, and prepared a university that should be mobile. This is how the phrase of the then Minister understands: 'I will change the DNA of universities'. Mr Mitsotakis referred to the three 'a' fold: autonomy, evaluation, excellence. Autonomousism because we need to restore the conditions in this country again and its importance. Autonomousism for Mr Mitsotakis means abolishing the self-employed, instead of self-employed. There's a huge difference. Self-employed means public good under the supervision of the State. Autonomy means we have quasi-private institutions with free public money. The difference is great.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u168	Oh, Babinio, you poor bastard!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u169	I know more than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u170	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u171	Second, rating, equals redundancies. Mr. Mitsotakis did it, he knows it very well. For us, evaluation is exploited, not redundancies. Excellence equals exclusion and elitism. For us excellence means solidarity, equality of opportunity for all. And I wonder, are we backwards talking about all this? Are we the ones who do not understand how the new higher institutions should be? I'll say one thing. Europe is right now, having spent twenty years of neoliberalism, where it has also tried in higher education to pass skills, training, entrepreneurship, linking to the market, rests with some fundamental values of European culture. I read and submit to the Minutes of Parliament all the debate that has taken place, firstly, since the 2015 Paris Declaration - and this is not from SYRIZA's propaganda material, it is from the Paris Declaration - where it says there is a need for attachment to the French and European values of freedom, equality and solidarity, while continuing to say that education, education must become a body of democracy and education for citizens. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Why does he say all this? What is Europe threatening today? Europe is today threatened by terrorist attacks, by an extremist radicalism, by marginalisation, by a crisis of democracy itself due to the rise of the extreme right. You are a step back on these issues. You need to watch a little more what the reality is right now to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u172	Madam Secretary, do you have two minutes to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u173	No, Mr President, I want a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u174	But that's not easy. Please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u175	Yes, Mr. President. For these reasons, we are striving for the principles rather than for the declining value of the public good by invoking a reason for excellence, that is, excellence that marginalises the large masses of the population and restores an unprecedented nepotism. I will say one thing: Mr Mitsotakis has mentioned too many times in individual progress. He never once spoke of access to the social good of education under the obligation of education. Secondly, there is a great deal of talk: the private universities and the tome of Article 16. I will not go too far, but I will say that it is good - and I put it in the Minutes of the House - to see a huge piece of art - from Portugal, Turkey, Albania and what the private universities have done to education and education in these countries. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] I shall just remind you - and I shall also present the relevant documents on the Minutes of the House - which countries of mainland Europe have private universities. You'll see that almost no one has worthwhile private universities. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Mr. Mitsotakis, France is forbidden...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u176	I don't imagine America either. That's all you know, that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u177	Wait a minute! Nor does France allow the use of the term university to anyone other than public universities. We're not giving the term universities to anyone. Albania has twenty-four private universities, Bosnia-Herzegovina twenty, Kosovo eight, Croatia seven and twenty-seven colleges, Macedonia seventeen, Slovenia twenty-nine, Romania thirty-three, Turkey - some closed this year - eight etc. Private universities, in other words, are blooming where public education or public education, public education has been severely affected - former Eastern countries - or where there was no tradition. Even in the United States, with infinite private, good universities, what we know, they are peculiar and are not private, as we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u178	Is it public?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u179	It's not public the way we say it, because it's another tradition. I close, Mr President, by saying what it means to us in public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u180	Please, in a minute, have closed and organized your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u181	Public education means that we very much support the good of public education. Mr. Mitsotakis, where are you in favour of excellence, what did you do when 2010-2013 left - a hundred and thirty-five thousand young scientists abroad? The answer is one: absolutely nothing! We, for the benefit of scientists, gave more than two thousand posts to universities and TEIs, gave more than two thousand scholarships to draw up doctoral thesis for postdoctoral research and postgraduate research programmes. For us,'reform' is equal opportunities and equality in the prospect of becoming excellent. Excellence shall not be repurchased or declared in advance. What we did was start to inaugurate the single area of higher education and research. There you can see - we will have the room for discussion on the draft ELIDEK that Mr Fotakis brings - what innovation means, what healthy entrepreneurship - against which we are not - but which preserves public character. I would like to say that a public university, public education, cannot exist unless it gives this equality of opportunity. We inaugurated scholarships for socially weak students 51 million and something, 21 million in HEIs to strengthen student care structures, legislative changes to improve the operation of HEIs. For us reform is not a fireplace to change DNA. It is the work that is done at the base to keep public universities and TEI upright. You will allow me one last word, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis mentioned postgraduate studies. You didn't read the bill. You said what you were dictated. They're wrong. It's not about the abolition of postgraduate. It is barely for postgraduate development. And he doesn't have the supervision of the Ministry, but the institutions of the institutions, the Assembly and the Senate. I would like to ask the following question, though: is the abolition of tuition disturbing? Germany because during a crisis, Mrs. Merkel, who's your partner, cut off the tuition fees? Why did the Netherlands put the 1,800 euro cap on? Why does France have no tuition fees? Why all these countries, in their public universities, even where they have, have set a strict cap that controls the state? Is that what's bothering you? Let's talk about it when the bill comes. Mr Mitsotakis, you have, in my opinion, done something that must not be done when serious discussions are held on education. You said about the Minister of Education if he's an eternal student. It could have been Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Loverdos is the first not to abolish eternal students, not us. I had the relevant documents, but unfortunately I don't have them with me. You told the Minister of Education that we did not abolish eternal students to study. I could take it back to you and say: do you not know the Greek public universities, why didn't you study here? We know this very well and the Europeans and the Americans, because we have returned to all of this, Mr Mitsotakis. I would therefore like to tell you that for our own government, for the Left, this country's society has paid with love and democratic responsibility for its public institutions. We cannot be suspicious - as you are - with all of us, in equality, because you are looking for a few. For us excellence is an objective and perspective for everyone, for those who want, not those who can. That's why the Greeks and Greeks paid and paid. And one final point: this House, the parties in this House, must speak with clear words. As far as the lessons of Religiouss and courses in general of the educational system are concerned, the parties must have the courage, instead of escaping, and say: 'Who is this case? The State or the Church?’ And that's what we have to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u182	Please organise your abbreviations better, much more briefly. And thank you very much for the excellent suggestions. Prime Minister Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis was given the opportunity today to address issues of topical and urgent importance. After all, I have asked the Bureau for permission to speak on the topical and urgent subject, because for a month now the country has been at the forefront of a storming bombing. There is nothing but permits. And all of a sudden, after the competition, a storming orchestra was opened from all the means that they were unable to license, but also from others who suddenly realize that they should pay or even from third parties who have long been aware that they cannot take other maritime loans, that the country is falling apart, the government is falling apart. But Mr Mitsotakis has decided, once again, to escape, to silence. He may have been advised by his communicators that it is best not to talk about these matters, because the hanged man’s house is not talking about rope. Perhaps he will not want to put his hands in his hands and take care of them, because others are doing the dirty work: all those who have been so fiercely defending himself for over six months, since the first day he was elected. Canalarchs, media owners. They're doing the dirty work. But Mr. Mitsotakis said to me: "Here we have to discuss education. If you want, ask for another prior agenda discussion on the matter.' You know, Mr Mitsotakis, do not often submit requests, because sometimes they are accepted. They're accepted! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I am therefore making a request, Mr President, for a prior-day debate in this House on complexity and corruption. Don't think you'll escape. You will come to speak here with names and addresses, in front of the Greek people, in front of the Greek people. In front of the Greek people! We're not leaving this mud in the fan unanswered. Names and addresses!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the quieter Mr Mitsotakis was in the field of interactivity, the clearer he was in matters relating to his ideological position - and I say this frankly, because this creates a level of crystallised confrontation, ideological and political - so clear he was in issues relating to the ideological perspective on education issues. He defended his well-known neoliberal agenda, which, as we appreciate, is also class-based. It is an agenda that, of course, is clear, but it has limits to its appeal to the Greek society because, even though it dresses on the cloak of liberalism, freedom, it actually defends the rights of a minority, of the few. And, of course, it defended training for the rights of the few, as it defends on other issues, I must also confess - to deregulation of the labour market, to issues relating to the demolition of the social state, redundancies, cutbacks in the social state - the interests and rights of a minority. And I would say that the main feature of his position on education is that he defends an education that is cut and sewn to the measures of an aristocracy. Watch out, not an elite education, but an elite training. These are the ideas the multi-speed society promotes. In the end, however, it is a society fragmented, divided, where everyone is for themselves and everyone is against everyone. And of course, Mr Mitsotakis, like all the neoliberals, believes that, thanks to some invisible market provision, people can progress and not that the market must enter under the control of the state that has laws and rules and that progress is the result of this generalised conflict of everything with everyone. How truly, destructive this idea has been proved over the centuries! So it wants an educational system in terms of the image and the uniformity of the market. And that becomes even clearer when he talks about the public university, where there is also a prejudice negative for his role. I would say in a few words that your problem, Mr Mitsotakis, is not that you are defending a legitimate view otherwise, the view that there should be private universities. Your problem is that you share in favour of private universities and schools against public schools and universities. We are doing everything in our power to lay the foundations of a public, universal, democratic, participatory and humanitarian educational system to build up the education of equality and love for knowledge. Because what we are going to do postgraduately at universities, Mr Mitsotakis, cannot be determined solely by the market. We must also take into account the needs of society, but also the educational process, the questions of scientists and scientists. For example, Greece is the country that could indeed have the most important postgraduate studies in philosophy, the country of Plato and Aristotle. Can the market define the needs for postgraduate programmes in philosophy? So, by definition, they couldn't do that. So this is a extreme view of you. Apart from defending the market, however, you have also served in the sport of misleading and inaccurate. And I want in one by one to give some answers as soon as I can. Firstly, you told us that - and we agree on this - education needs a national consensus. What's your attitude? You have finished your speech, saying you will abolish everything that SYRIZA has brought. This is inconsistent with the tradition of your resignation. Your party is a conservative party, but, in any case, it always had a reasoned attitude. You're following an extremist opposition. We've all done it wrong. And you talk about consensus when we had a year of dialogue and you left the debate in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, whose conclusion was signed by a number of opposition parties. So what consensus? Who doesn't want a consensus? You told us we wanted to take you back to the past, not to the future, and you made a special reference in the 1980s. I don't know what residues you might have had from these years, how you spent the 1980s, but I think the 1980s didn't set the country back. Anyway, if you're telling us that we want to go to the 1980s, then why did you refer to 1864 to defend private universities through the Constitution? Indeed, for European tradition, private universities are a past, so distant, 1864! You told us you wanted a school that students had the opportunity to track their talents. What did you guys do for this opportunity? You built the school that wants to make them all the same. You avoided personnel education, you stopped giving scholarships, and then you tell us that you want to give opportunities. You told us about model schools. You know, historical school patterns continue to work. We want to give the weight to the experiments. It's true. But I do not know anywhere in the world, in any educational methodology, about matching the model with the Experimental, something that Mrs Diamantopoulou did, which you dried up a moment ago. There are the standards. Historical school patterns continue to work. However, we want to weigh on experimental - as has been the success of Greece in the 1980s, where new methods of education are being tested for students with various and different skills, in order to then apply to all education. And that's why in experimental schools they shouldn't just go to his 20 students, but from the whole spectrum. You're telling us we've degraded this whole day's school. But how did we do that? Since now - and for the first time - all primary schools can work as a full day and all children can go to them. You know that until last year there were schools that didn't do English and Informatics from the first grade and how do all children in the public primary schools in our country from the first primary English and Informatics? That's exactly what you're going to do when you say you're going to come and do away with all we've done in education? In the hours we have reduced them not because we are in the sense of a minor effort, as you have argued, but because it is pedagogical, scientific opinion that primary children can't afford such a serious programme, so many hours. And that's not our place. It's a well-established place for teachers. You're telling us that high school changes took place without dialogue. Of course, if you had remained in the Morphics Committee, you would have known whether or not there was any dialogue. That's probably what you're saying. But tell us about the content. Let it go if there was a dialogue. Tell us, do you disagree with the high school changes? Tell the Greek family clearly that you're satisfied with the junior high school exam and you want it to stay and whatever changes are made to abolish this high school-examination center, you'll change them and we'll come back again. You're telling us about the changes we made last year in high school. Yes, sir. You didn't get the whole Greek exams and the damage they've done at school, but you voted to give the children pan-Hellenic and even to pay the parents for the care and eliminate the adolescence of children and children to act like robots that give tests. Well, that's what we abolished, and that's why we're proud of it. You also told us that we legislated that no dismissal could be made in private schools, so that the schoolmaster cannot choose the staff and someone who is not doing his job well, is not a good teacher, cannot be replaced. It's not accurate, Mr. Mitsotakis. You shouldn't be well informed. We, what we did was to reinstate what the New Democracy Government had voted for at the beginning of post-population. No dismissal can be made without documentation on a board. And you know why? Just because teachers perform a public service. They are giving disinfectants and therefore they must be guaranteed that they are unaffected by pressure. They're not just working teachers. They're both workers and employees. The late Rallys, as Minister of Education, who had introduced this, was Soviet as we are now accused of? He'll feed his bones. You told us about the evaluation. We are preparing a comprehensive law on evaluation in public. But to see what you mean when you talk about evaluation and see if you mean the same thing in schools, in schools, in teachers, because what you brought as Minister wasn't exactly an evaluation, but a law to facilitate redundancies, because you legally define that only 10% can be excelled. You just told us that he's perfect whoever's trying. Can't they try and do more than 10%? In the law you have designated, you told us that 15% necessarily ranked at the lowest, on the lowest scale, obviously to get fired. Well, you didn't want an evaluation, you wanted an excuse for redundancies. The evaluation is another thing that you mean. No one is opposed to the concept of evaluation, but we need to see on what terms and under what conditions, and in particular with regard to teachers, because I repeat that they are not just workers, but are workers and at the same time employees. For postgraduate students, you expressed displeasure because the tuition fees would be low. There are graduates of ten and fifteen thousand euros. The only way one can see these is to say there's a demand that keeps them running, so fine. The other is to say that the vast majority of the Greek people, especially in our days of crisis, are excluded because of these high tuition fees from services offered by the educational system itself for which they pay taxes. Well, no, Mr. Mitsotakis. It is not just the market that decides what is going to happen to postgraduate students. We have tried to put a class in the landscape of postgraduate programs and they can well decide what postgraduate courses they will do. I don't know if you've been properly informed, or if you've read the law. We simply say that at the end the Ministry will do legality check to see if the sums asked by students for postgraduate programmes are actually justified. What's wrong with that? Are you against transparency, or perhaps from what we have done, are some great professors who were getting rich in postgraduate programs and on their behalf now you want to talk here? For the Religious Affairs I have heard your criticism of the procedures. I hope it is because you did not know that for the past three years there has been a process of substantial dialogue at the Institute of Education in the EIT, and at the same time, these programmes have been tested in a number of schools. The dialogue, of course, as I said in my speech, will continue and the last one to do is a conflict with the Church. On the contrary, we are open to hear the views and to compose them. Any comments made at the end of the process this year to be evaluated will be incorporated before writing. But I did not hear you speak very clearly about something. In all other things, in education, you were very firm, I confess. Not so much on that. You can tell us about the "tampshire". Do you agree or disagree that there must be a change in the detailed programs so that we can leave the confession class and go to a lesson that will have a wider perspective? You told us you wanted high school to work with business for vocational training. But you - I mean your party - have broken up vocational training as a government. You've made teachers available, you've done away with the popular PSA specialities. And all this because? To have the IKUs, Mr. Mitsotakis. We've brought this back. We have established a framework for guaranteeing the working rights of children who practice. And we want children to turn to vocational training as well, but not defeated, that they cannot be perfect, and that is why they are going there, but because they will have a choice to go there. And we want, if they decide later, after they finish the professional high school, to be able to test for the university. That is why we introduced this possibility, while you had abolished it. Finally, you said that you wanted to link education to the market and that there is a skills gap, that is, that the market wants skills that universities do not offer. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis, what country do you live in? Is that the problem of unemployment today? Is that the problem, and not that the children go with their hand degree and postgraduate, overtrained, get a job and tell them that "you're overqualified and we can't give as much as you suit your degrees"? Is that the problem that they're forced to hide their degrees to find a job? And if that were the problem, why do Greek universities graduates find work abroad? If there is a resilience of skills and of the market, this is not due to the poor situation of universities, it is due to the poor state of the market. And to change this, we must work with emphasis on strengthening research and innovation, which we are now strengthening as never before, which you have never done. In 2015, in the year of the major crisis, we reached 1% of GDP for research and we make a special fund to support knowledge-intensive enterprises, things that you have never implemented, you never wished, you did not even think about implementing and speaking to all tons of new technologies, innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with a comment and this comment is about what Mr Mitsotakis said about personal experiences. Indeed, we are all the product of our experiences, our course, our personal history and origin. I, Mr. Mitsotakis, am proud of my own course. Because it was an honor to be involved in some of the outrages, the important glimpses of the student and student movement in our country. Because the student movement, the neo-liberal movement in our country, played an important role in shaping modern political history. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I had the opportunity to participate in the school struggles of 1990-91 against an authoritarian and backward, anti-educational law at the time of your father's government, as it was my honour to participate in the student movement, of course, in a time of decline of the movement and the role of the student clubs. But these struggles, social struggles, collective struggles are struggles that have taken society forward, ensured and safeguarded rights, defended public education, free education, and democracy itself. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know what? Your basic problem, when you're talking about education, even though you blame me for my personal experiences, it's probably your own experiences. Because until you've dealt with politics you haven't even been outside a public school and a public university and you can't defend them. You can only defend public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u185	Thank you to the Prime Minister. The floor is held by the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis for 10 minutes. Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Tsipras, I want to return the clock of time back six months, in March 2016, when with the same nerve that you showed and today you were calling for a debate on corruption and complication before the day. This debate was held on 29 March. It is a general confession that you have suffered a debacle. So you're coming back to the crime scene now. I'm glad you dragged into accepting our proposal. But there is a big difference. In relation to what we knew in March 2016 a number of data have been added to the public dialogue. Mr Kalogeritsa, the Bank of Attica, the outshore of Dawn. So I am very pleased, Mr Tsipras, that we will come to discuss everything. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will look forward to the President of Parliament setting the relevant date. I want to make a reference to your final comment on everyone's experiences, yours, mine. You declared proud of the participation in the student and student movement. It is your right to do so. I must point out, of course, that this student movement has often been offended to events of extreme violence, which has unfortunately highlighted the social and political life of this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u187	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u188	I want to remind you that you do not know something that is perhaps symbolic. I'm surprised you didn't mention it, Mr. Tsipras. Do you remember what the name of the student party Mr. Tsipras was headed for in his students years? 'Engladus'. That brain you've caused in the country. You've broken down everything there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u189	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Tsipras, you don't have to talk to colleagues. You can look this way. Since we're talking about experiences, I didn't really intend to mention it, but you accused me of not having been out of public school and out of public university. I did have the opportunity to study at a leading American non-state university. I imagine that you too, Mr. Tsipras, would like to take the same route, you wouldn't have any difficulty in doing so. You know, hard work needs. The financial comfort, I think, you had it. You could go to a university like that. I made that choice. But don't give up on me that I haven't been out of public school when you're sending the kids to a private school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u191	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u192	That is the ultimate hypocrisy, Mr. Tsipras. Absolute hypocrisy. You yourself don't trust the educational system. You yourself recognize the privileges of private education. So do not refer to personal experiences when your own route highlights the degree of hypocrisy. I now come to the question of the issues you have raised. Let me begin with a historical reference. In 1991-1992 Finland went through a very heavy economic crisis, which almost destroyed its economy and forced it to rebuild its productive tissue. The political forces, Mr Tsipras, of Finland have managed at this difficult time to consult each other, to promote education as an absolute priority and to agree on a national action plan and the results have been visible after ten years. Finland today has one of the best public education systems. The fifteen-year-olds of Finland are in the first triad of PISA's competition exams. I really wonder why we cannot do the same in our country. I fear that we cannot do the same in our country because we cannot agree on some obvious and self-evident. Because, indeed, it separates us, Mr Tsipras, an ideological abyss in how we understand education, the concept of excellence, the concept of evaluation. And it really is very difficult for me to understand why you are still dealing with education in terms of the past. You mentioned the 1980s and indeed the educational reform that you are actually promoting is a copy of the 1982 framework law. That's exactly these concepts you're reinstated. But just think about the fact that a child who will enter primary school this year, in 2016, Mr. Tsipras, will finish school in 2028 and finish the university in 2032-2033. Is there a serious discussion in the country today about what the world will be like then? What skills will these children need? What are the professions that will exist at that time? That is why I tell you how necessary the link between the labour market and the universities is, and you respond with a general devotion "a joy is the graduates of the Greek universities, the problem is in the labour market". You have such a narrow understanding of how education is linked to the market and to the professional rehabilitation of young children. Let us see, then, whether or not we can agree today, even late, on some self-evident. Should we or should we not, Mr Tsipras, give more autonomy to school units? Yes or no? I would like a clear answer. Should we or should we not recognise the work of many excellent public professors and teachers who in extremely difficult circumstances keep the public school upright? Should or should the teaching work not ultimately be assessed? Mr Tsipras, you referred again falsely to the assessment that I had proposed and had, saying something that you know is a lie, that 15% of the lowest score would lead to redundancies, when you know that there was clear legislation that excluded this. So continue and repeat the same candy. So I ask you: What kind of evaluation do you want? Because twenty months later you have not brought a single proposal for a law on the concept of evaluation. But there can't be an assessment in your mind, because Mr. Friends has spoken to us about the concept of equality. When everyone is equal, then, the evaluation goes a long way. That's why you're not bringing any evaluations, Mr. Tsipras. That is why you are so concerned about this. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And you know very well - I imagine Mr Katrugalos will have informed you - that when I handed over the Ministry, I had a draft law on the evaluation of civil servants, which was out of line with the quota. So why didn't you implement it? But, as we speak of quota, Mr. Tsipras, do you consider the statements made recently by your Minister, Mr. Fotio? Can I remind you of them? "15% of employees only deserve and work." Fifteen percent! Mrs. Fotou said that! So do you not stop putting hypocrisy aside, on the one hand, saying that everyone is equal and, on the other, your ministers point to the obvious inequalities that exist in public administration itself? Come on, then, to agree on an evaluation framework which really rewards the worthwhile teachers - not even wages - but can give advice to those who do not do their work well. I will not get tired of saying this, ladies and gentlemen: evaluation is primarily the reward of worthy, not the instrument of punishment for the least good. And when everyone gets "10", Mr. Tsipras, then the worthy professor, the worthy public minister feels foolish. Well, we don't accept that because we want everyone to be rewarded and rewarded according to their work. You are obviously still rejecting this concept today. Another question: Do we need or do we not need experimental public schools, Mr. Tsipras, for excellencers? Well, to explain it to understand, because you probably haven't understood it: All the school models are experimental. All experimental schools are not standards. So let us agree on that. Of course we need experimental schools, which will have an indicative, random sample of students so that we can try out new methods. The question is not that, the question is whether we need school models of excellence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u193	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u194	There aren't any. There are all nine and all, the rest you have done away with, because you have done away with the tests, Mr. Tsipras. Get informed by your Minister at last! Well, the question is if we need schools of excellence in every county, in every district, where a good student, poor man, who doesn't have the possibility that you and I have to send our children to private school, go and study at such a school. That's the question. So answer with a yes or no: do we need or do we not need such schools? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Should the university or shouldn't it be linked to the labour market? We have to be honest here. The Greek universities, Mr Tsipras, produce too many graduates, many in specialties that cannot be absorbed by the Greek labour market. I ask you: Does it make sense to train doctors to four times what we really need to export them to Sweden or France and pay the Greek taxpayer? Or vice versa. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why are you upset about something that's so self-evident?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u195	Please don't answer for yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u196	I'm asking you some specific questions. Perhaps you have a chance in your tritology to answer. So should or should universities themselves not themselves have a greater role if not the final role in identifying the number of importers? Yes or no? I expect a clear answer, if we really want to honour the constitutionally guaranteed self-employed and not to have a super-interventional Ministry of Education, which comes all the time and adds to the number of children who are already in the pan-Hellenic so that we can finally have a lot more students than we need or those who can actually absorb this labour market. Do we need or do we not need, Mr Tsipras, mergers in the field of higher education? What is the ideal number of universities and TEIs for a country of 10 million? Should or should there be economies of scale? Are there or are there any departments and schools that may be in these circumstances not viable? Should we have this conversation, yes or no? Do you agree or do you not agree that this dialogue should be opened? I have not heard you say anything about all this, nor about you, nor about your other Minister. Of course, the most important thing in my opinion, to which the Minister referred: should Greece or should it not become an international training centre? Do you want, Mr. Tsipras, or do you want foreign language departments in the Greek universities? Answer me a yes or a not at last. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as non-State universities are concerned, I should like to correct Mrs. Deputy Minister. All the top universities Americans - with an exception perhaps Berkeley - are non-state universities. I guess you know that. They're non-State, they're not profitable, but they're non-State universities. This is a reality that you need to know. As you should know, there are also many ratings in private higher education. There are good private universities, fewer well-being private universities, perhaps some which do not meet the necessary standards. But the question is simple, Mr Tsipras. Why should we export sixty thousand Greek students every year abroad when they can study here? And why should we not be able to attract significant investments in an area that is growing rapidly internationally and making this amazing place an international training centre? Answer me! Why not? The private university, the non-profit and the private university will continue to be supervised by the Greek State. Nobody's talking about unaccompanied operation. And obviously, the Ministry of Education will set up the supervision framework and there are certification procedures to ensure the quality of these universities. But why don't you, for example, want a large charity institution to come and make a very important donation and build a leading non-profit university? What bothers you in that? Because it runs counter to your concept of excellence. I really want to understand, because it is very difficult for me to hear, today, in Greece of 2016, someone who so fanatically defends the state monopoly in higher education. One final comment on the issue of religious ones. Here, really, I have to tell you I'm in trouble. I was involved, because I have heard Mr Kammenos - I do not see him - to announce with great satisfaction that all the initiatives taken to change the religious lessons are canceled by your own personal agreement and that dialogue starts at zero. That's what Mr. Kammenos told us. Can you confirm or deny it? Just to know, if there is even the elementary synchronization between the two governmental partners. Because I understand Mr Kammenos's attempt to be pleasurable to the Church, but the truth, Mr Tsipras, is not questioned. And in His Majesty's letter, things are called by their name. I'm telling you again, you talked about dialogue with the Church. A unique meeting took place with the EPA. So I ask you directly and would like your answer: The necessary reform of the religious lesson - I stress it - the necessary reform of the religious lesson must or must not be done in consultation with the Church of Greece? And I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u197	I said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u198	I'm finishing up with something I can't leave in business. The Minister said so, telling us that your government is taking advantage of the new scientists. Are you serious? Yesterday in this Chamber, did you not vote to increase the contributions for young scientists? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, stop, Mr. Tsipras, so stubbornly mocking Greek society and especially young scientists! I should like to conclude by saying, Mr Tsipras, that I have noted, with satisfaction, that tones in secondary education have been lower than in prototypes, and I think this is the way in which it is appropriate for such a debate - at least in some, at least, of what I consider to be self-evident to agree. I really hope so. I do not think it will be easy because, in fact, as I have pointed out many times, we see the world through a different look. What you now call neoliberal is that, Mr Tsipras, which most European countries have adopted as common sense. That's the reality. Open your eyes a little. Read the OECD report, in comparison, to see what other countries are doing in the field of education and may, if you do so, manage to escape your ideological contagion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u199	The Chairman of the PASOK Democratic Group - DIMAR Mr. Fotini Gennamata has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u200	He has now become the Prime Minister's custom when the Democratic Compact talks to withdraw from the Chamber. I think we all draw useful conclusions from this attitude. This is the second time that it has brought to Parliament a debate on the subject of interlocutory. The first time he made a hole in the water in relation to his pursuits. He managed to be apologetic. So we, Mr. Tsipras, raise the glove. Yes, let's talk about the complex here in this Chamber, to prove and document what the triangle of the interlocutory you have talked about is. Because this time in the conversation you'll be the defendant and not just apologizing. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You know, history teaches us that when you lose the support of the people, when the people feel that you betrayed him, you deceived him, you put him in danger, you insulted him, that you are responsible for the even greater deterioration of his everyday life and the retreat of his standard of living, then he turns your back. And the last road you have to follow is to open the debate on the hunting of interlocutory warfare. In words, Mr. Tsipras. In fact, what is happening is that one begins to function as a statute, which attempts to fade every other voice. And what a coincidence, Prime Minister: At the very time that SYRIZA's so-called moral advantage is being degraded, at an inconsistent rate, at the time you bounce on the measurements of public opinion, while the so-called titanic battle with the conflict has collapsed both politically and morally and legally, it is precisely the moment when you lose your temper, move on the basis of panic and try to set up a own regime, controlling the media. The same, of course, you have also done in the field of education, with the choices of executives and in too many areas of state. But that is what we are all aware of. It's a common secret in Greece. And I come to the conclusions reached on this subject in our debate today. Conclusion first: Poverty of ideas and nakedness have been revealed in political choices and actions. Equalisation and lost opportunities. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government will stay in history because it has put education in the memorandum. That'll be on your ass and you'll be stigmatized. What you mentioned today as future political initiatives in the field of education are fragmentary proposals from what PASOK has announced throughout this period and in previous years. In other words, with loan proposals you are trying to make a policy, like, a little while ago, with loan reforms, New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis are trying to present a new profile of reform. But listen to this: I want to make it quite clear that the proposals, which were made by the government officials and the reforms that Mr Mitsotakis referred to, are PASOK, are his wealth, because they are the result of a collective effort of hundreds of executives and teachers and people as a whole in the educational community. Neither our proposals nor our reforms are translated. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I come to the second conclusion on lies. You have spoken to us too much about consensus and dialogue. How much more pretext? But we've lived it for a year and a half. You are against any understanding, you are triggering polarization and division, you have not allowed the dialogue to develop in the field of education. And the simplest example is that it is only today that Mr Tsipras has come to announce that he will set up the National Education Council. On the other hand, what we live around us every day is that you are trying to put one social group to the other, so that one does not deal with your failure and the deadlocks you create in the country. A characteristic example today is that we have heard that the Security Body must be across from university professors. These divisions have been overcome for many years after very hard work of the Democratic Partnership. And we will not allow you to create new trenches and new divisions in Greek society. The last thing the Greek people need today is a new division. And I come to the whole day. In my prototype, I referred to all levels of education. But I think that the whole day is the heart of today's problem, because they show what prospects are for the new generation and because I believe that all reforms in education must start from the bottom up. The reality is, you're canceling the whole day's schools. The reality of the entire school - which you often say has been implemented only at 33% for today and why we are making such a fuss about this work - is that they have been implemented in 65% of the school population and should be strengthened and extended. And you are now cutting off all creative hours, leaving hundreds of educational unemployed. And if you celebrate it, why didn't you create the problems that you created last year at the opening of schools, I would like to inform you that the problem of most families is at the moment that their children are 12.30' or 13.00' at the latest - from your entire day you're not going away - they're at home. And this is a huge problem in both parents working homes. And because I have heard a lot about who went to the public and who went to private, I want to tell you this: The biggest problem - I said it in my prototype - that all families are facing today is that our children are leaving the country, because they see that they have no prospects. And instead of joining forces today to tell them how they will stay in their country and move forward, we are enjoying the debate and we find new trenches and new divisions. Let each one take responsibility. Because I think it is now clear that you are inferior to the circumstances! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u201	I am very grateful to the President of the parliamentary group in the Democratic Independence. I want to let you know about the program. The Secretary-General, Mr Koutsoubas, will speak, then the President of the Centres, Mr Leventis, will be seconded by the ministers and will be quantifiable by the Prime Minister. Three chiefs won't take the floor. The speech is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years a disorientative diplomatic diploma has been deliberately set up on issues and education. It resurrects - it is the truth - both from the government and from the New Democracy. A series of duplexes, such as quality or equality, state of mind or private initiative, are being thrown on the table. The SYRIZA Government is even accused of a Soviet model in education. The New Democracy is doing you a very great honor, without perhaps realizing it itself, without even reproach, when it accuses you of going to apply a Soviet model to education. Of course the New Democracy seeks thus to separate it from your Government. You see, when they try to confront each other two different versions of the same civil policy, they have a mutual interest in downgrading and reminding each other better, both together in their graves, who is the real opponent. And it is true to wonder that the charge of supposedly Sovietism has been raised in connection with an article dealing with regulations for private-education workers. First of all, we must inform you of those who do not know it - because many people in this House and others who are missing are not in the Chamber at the moment, and they know it and they know it, because many have studied there either in the Soviet Union or in other countries - that there was no private education. It was all, and rightly in our view, only publicly and on a free course for everyone. But beyond that it is worth noting that the SYRIZA Government actually took a measure to control certain areas of private education and not all, and even inviting New Democracy because it was being removed from the authorities of George Rally, we heard it just before. And since we are given the opportunity, let us talk about just some of the achievements of the Soviet model in education, since we have a second and we have not had time to talk about them in protology. Those who move to Athens by subway will perhaps have seen an advertising by a private IEK, which welcomes the fact that, according to his research, 64% of his graduates are working on the subject of his studies. Those who sell the hope of professional rehabilitation to children who did not succeed in the pan-Hellenics find this percentage worthy of advertising, obviously in contrast to what is happening with university graduates and TEIs. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, as well as of the other parties, cannot hide the reality of youth then in the Soviet Union. That once they finished their studies - which is why I mentioned the above - they knew the job they were going to place on the basis of both their interests and their choices, but also the needs that were in the economy. How can you answer this all the defenders of the capitalist road, the Euromonstrate, which has in its DNA and unemployment and exploitation? In the Soviet Union, for example, the families of students studying in other cities did not even know what "I'm looking for a home to stay with my child". The problem of student housing, socialism, had solved it. Students were part of each higher education institution. But that's not all. Over 80% of the students received from the Soviet state every month and an allowance such that they could meet their needs without burdening their families. This ensured them both their diet and daily life as a whole, their movements, their clothing, their culture, their footwear, etc. Does the Greek today look like a reality in the 21st century? At the same time, socialism has responded that and that of generalization of education we can also have quality in its results. The Soviet educational system was also recognized by the Westerners for its clear overwhelming supremacy in the globality of the knowledge given to young people. The reflection of the American experts, who became aroused after the 'Sputni shock' in 1957, the younger ones have read it, the older ones may remember it - for what Ivan is taught, but Johnny is not taught, he expressed the understanding of educational delays at the time of the United States as well as the Soviet Union. It was in 1959 that the Soviet Union had completely defeated the bourgeoisity, in 1970 more than three quarters of the population employed in the cities and 50% of the rural workers in the village had received at least medium and higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years there has been a lot of talk of innovation, entrepreneurship, as well as of partyism in universities. They sounded in here, too. For us, the existence of parties within universities and TEIs is objective, expresses the existence of different, opposite social and economic interests. The question of partyism in universities is a little funny for the New Democracy to lift it, as the party that supports universities and TEIs in several universities and TEIs is literally a state in which part of the TEIs are supported. It's known in this pan-Hellenic. The JRC and the JRC are struggling for the student and student movement to be effectively reconstructed, to acquire racing content, to overcome the degeneration in which they are today and for which, badly, they have a responsibility and powers with which SYRIZA, the current government party, flirts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to put another side on the table, because we now have to stop all this literature, that entrepreneurship is supposed to be the driving force for innovation, a position that is now flooding both amphitheatres and the various conferences and the various conferences that are being organised. It is no coincidence that this argument is developed by both you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as well as by New Democracy and other parties, but also by BSE and others - of course - that is normal - representatives of capital. Indeed, if that is the case, then how does it explain that in socialism, which we have met at the time of the Soviet Union, they accounted for over 20% of the new inventions, what in modern terms you call 'patted innovations', which were registered annually throughout the world? How can you explain the fact that in the Soviet Union there were 25% of scientists worldwide in 1987? And that is of special interest to remember today, to discuss today, that all the other parties and of course you too, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are sheding crocodile tears for the so-called 'brain drain', the massive fleeing of scientific potential abroad. It is, in fact, crocodiles these tears, because strengthening the mobility of scientific potential is a strategic choice of capital and the European Union, which you serve with your own policy, just as the previous ones have done. The aim is to bring together the necessary critical masses of scientific potential in centres and projects of excellence. This is because capital demands and is pressing for the research results produced to go faster and more efficiently into integration, production and the market. So, while you are all supposed to be fighting for the future of young scientists, are you hiding from our people that your aim is not to limit the leak to absolute sizes, but, as you confess in official texts, to reverse the reason for influxing and leaking? I mean, to say it in simple words, you don't care to leave less, but to come more than anyone who leaves. And this is a key axis of your designs, so that in specific thematic areas the presence of the research structures in Greece will be strengthened, without worrying about what will happen to the rest and the workers in Greece. You do not care what the real needs of the Greek people are to use the results of the research activity to improve its standard of living, quality of life. Do you know how many young scientists have left the research after the programs from which they were funding the projects that they were working? While these unemployed, of course their know-how and the possibility of continuing the research work goes hand in hand, while the institutes are also diluted by potential. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece is ringing at this point.]] One final and I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Friend's still scratching in the sip-girl. In my speech I said quite clearly that the gentlemen of the government, when we were in here, but also in public with communications and personal views on all these issues, seem to be either missing or unheard of or I don't know what else they were dealing with. After all, it is an opportunity to repeat once again - I will not evade, as you have suggested - that the necessity and maturity of abolishing the anachronism, those who exist, those who survive with regard to various issues and to the lesson of religious ones, is a matter for us without them. This is clear and is a permanent placement of the Communist Party of Greece. However, this cannot justify approaches and simplifications of the type, friend. The JRC clearly, for example, considers that the separation of the Church from the state is also necessary. However, this cannot lead SYRIZA's Minister for Education and Religious Affairs to speak both unequivocally and simplisticly, for example by incriminating the entire church as a whole. For example, in the Occupation took place with the Church - to make what I say more understandable - what happened with the rest of the civil world, etc. In other words, a piece was compromised, a piece was co-operated with the conquerors, and a piece entered into the resistance actively and indeed the armed national resistance with EAM, ELAS, etc., with the National Solidarity and massively here was mainly the lower populist clergy and parts of the hierarchy, even metropolitan parts. For example, my grandfather, the priest, the priest - Dimitris Koutsoubas, whose name I have, my father’s father, was executed in 1944 by the German conquerors for his participation in the National Solidarity in the county of Domokos in the villages, which was there, and as a member of EAM. So let us be more careful, Mr Minister of the Left Government. Nor can the abolition of these anachronisms be promoted for propaganda and ashes in the eyes in front of all the other anachronisms that still exist and dominate education. We tell you: We will not allow you to set up new style separators: Are you with Phil, against the Church, or are you with the Church and with Jerony? You're with the old canals, or the new ones, and the government, and with Mr. Poppa, who gave, or don't know what he did, the license competition that the JRC has voted against here as a law here? That's why we're putting weight to the point. Because for us, just as much anachronism is for our children to take lessons in inappropriate rooms, an instructor to do two and three lessons other than his specialty and everything we said, the rest in our protology, for over half an hour and you did how you didn't hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor for ten minutes, but there will be tolerance. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Ministers, thank you for your kindness to listen to me. I was told by Mr. Kikilis that I didn't mention much about education. And I told him that after you mentioned everything, and after you solved the matter, why should I get tired too? The big question for education on my part is that in recent years everyone has always been tearing down the previous ones. It's not good for the past and it's good for the next. And then the rest of them deem it against the devil - to say it like this - and start giving it to him from the beginning, and the children don't even know what system they'll give tests. I have proposed - and the Prime Minister will hear it - that there should be 4/5 in the PSE, that there should be 4/5 in education. It's important that the laws don't change, if you don't have 4/5, not every Minister of his head. In my opinion, it's important not to play with youth. One thing I want to raise is evaluations of private education and the public. In fact, nothing is done in public, they are given, so people sit down until they get their pension. They don't care if they're trained and if they're trained, slow down the increase they'll get. There's no stimulus. In the private sector, they are trade unionists who decide whether they are good ones. That's a mistake. I think we should put an interuniversity, serious and judiciary committee to examine the cases of complaints of people who are in education and are 'barbarbarians' and do not give up, see how they will all work. Don't put trade unionists on, because trade unionism is discredited in Greece. The union has offered the worst services. And if this country were to have been bankrupt, in my opinion, it went on to say why the trade unions were constantly claiming, regardless of whether the country could increase their wages. They thought it was a success to get increases. The success of the trade unions is to get early pensions, to lower the retirement threshold and to receive higher wages, while abroad the success of the trade union is mainly mentioned in the quality of the services provided. That's not there at all. That is what Mr Philis had to put into the bill, assess by people of prestige, not a single wing and no citizen could question it and not a trade unionist. They're disgusting trade unionists. I went to GSEE on an island, I do not remember, in Rhodes, who held a conference and told them: "It is your fault because all you were looking at is to reduce the age limit for retirement and raise the wages and bring Greece here where you brought it." So, an evaluation is not possible. And they don't want to, because if there's an evaluation, they're gonna throw away the pieces. In post-university exchanges, we're diseased. While other states rely too much on hosting foreign graduates for post-training, these are very limited in Greece. The funds have been cut and they are too limited. We had to fight, so our universities are very low internationally. If we take the list of universities, even the Kapodistrian and all the universities - Mr Pelogrinis, who was dean, tell us what order we have on the list - the situation will be disappointing. I do not think there is anything in the bill to say that it is innovative, it gives some impetus to the subject of post-university exchanges and our own to go outside, become multilinguals, etc. And others come here to take the Greek education. Why do you think Germany has too many graduates? Because by going there you necessarily embrace their education, their culture, you become the bearer of their spirit. There's a problem with school agglomerations. Many students are poor families. I don't know if that's where there's been care. Has there been any talk in this room about school pools or the kids fall into a coma after 10.00 p.m. or 11.00 p.m. and only those who have money eat sandwiches? Has this been examined by any of Parliament's wings? When Mr Kikilias told me that the New Democracy raised the question of education very seriously, did he include the issue of the pool of poor pupils? For so-called eternal students, I have told the Chamber that I had a friend in Thessaloniki, who was older than seventy years old - and it was his dream of ending medicine. So I contacted the Minister - I think he was Arvanitopoulos, I don't remember who he was, and I said, "the man doesn't want to practice medicine, he just wants to finish, so he has medical knowledge. It's his life's dream. Why cut him like a big one?" Or why would a man who married and could not study for five years to cut him off and call him "eternal", if health conditions and so forbid him to watch? Why cut off these students? I think we have a debt of sixty and sixty-five and seventy-seven years old not to cut them. Then the ministers had asked if he was crazy. No, he wasn't crazy, the Minister didn't know what he was. He was perfectly sound, had as a dream of life to study and not with professional reasoning, not with reason for him to be bioliquid. There are many issues for education. A teacher indignant in a village - I don't remember which - told me that in the past a little late kids had a special class, and now they put all children in the same class, so she can't teach. He told me: "I'm going to teach the normal students and that other child gets up, turns up and because he's my student, you have to do something, Mr. Leventis, tell the Prime Minister, ask him if there's provision in the bill for special classes of children who have problems." I don't know, I wish that care had been taken, because - to be honest - I was abroad and I haven't read the bill very well - so that I don't blame Mr. Friends - and, most importantly, in Greece, things are stressed, they come to the public. As far as the question of religion is concerned, I was taken today by a metropolitan and read to me a law, under the FEC number 83. In some paragraphs the law says that they are allowed if they are Catholics or if they are other religions to be taught religiously of their religion, and this is not allowed for the official religion of Greece. He wants the Minister to cut it off. I say: 'I, Mr. Tsipras, have him for seriousness'. What, we're cutting off orthodomy, Mr. Tsipras? I don't think so. Is this true, Mr. Phile, that Catholics and Greek Orthodoxs can have lessons of religion not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u205	They, too. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u206	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u207	Oh, it's not true. So there's some misinformation. The metropolitan was misinformed. Because today the Archbishop also sent me a hundred pages of information and he wrote the same. He's misinformed? The whole world is misinformed and the only informed is the government here? If that is the case, then the Church is in complete error. That is, they send me such documents, the metropolitan has called me and says to me 'because the debate is about education, we want to have at least the rights of other religions as well'. Is that absurd? I do not think there will be a Greek party that will cut orthodoxy. There are some people who are religiously identifiable, fanatical. I do not agree with all of them. On various issues they've taken places fanatic. But not even come to cut off religious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, rights are in favour of minorities. The dominant religion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u209	Yes, all right, of minorities, but at the very least what minorities are entitled to, majority rights. We do not reach the point for the sake of minorities to cut the majority. Because that is now absolute insanity!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u210	Please, don't interfere!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u211	I therefore see a situation which I do not understand, unless there is so much propaganda that nothing is happening in Greek society anymore. I was listening to a reporter this morning who was calling Germany and saying that we're delivering it all to Germany. I wanted to know if he was in some position, what he would do. He could have signed a bigger signature than the ones he put in. Understand? It's easy to be good and glossy. It's hard to rule. It's hard to rule. Anyway, I would like to say something about the cutter, because there are two publications, which I believe will not escape the Prime Minister. One says that seven hundred and seventy - four thousand Greeks are under arrest for late debts. The other - based of course on evidence - says that four million thirty thousand Greeks owe the tax of 91.6 billion. If we add billions of debt to the insurance funds and add red loans to them, the Greek problem is unresolved, in my view, Mr Tsipras, and I would ask you to consider the possibility of forming a government that is universal not to get you out of the position of Prime Minister, but because the problems are serious and no one can alone. I also told Mitsotakis that one cannot alone and the one who claims to be alone is in total error. I said before - you missed, I don't know if you were watching from your office - that Tsipras, if he doesn't have an election, that Mitsotakis should come in, that he should solve the problems, that he has done it in four, five months' time, and that he has had an election without a bonus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. I very much urge the Minister, Mr. Friend, to come to Stepma. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, does evaluation go against equality school? Equality is something that undermines evaluation? Obviously there is confusion in teaching and ideological terms, judging by what Mr Mitsotakis said, unless the evaluation means it is a form of inequality. He implied it more popular. It can lead to a reduction in wages or even redundancies as was done on his own government at the Samara Government. Indeed, then, the school of equality, with this punishing assessment, which is not about improving school, but about chasing teachers, cannot exist. We talked about evaluation, and a comprehensive evaluation of the school unit. Teachers are meeting and they are considering what basic problem they have at school. For example, there is a school leak. How we deal with her. All year round they take steps to deal with the school leak. Other theme: bullying. They're talking about how to deal with it. During the course of the year they check how to achieve these objectives for the improvement of school. Second, school autonomy. Sure. Nobody wants a centralized state. I, as Minister of Education, sign every day on average some fifty ministerial decisions, which concern from the least to the most important issues. We don't want that. This state doesn't work. You're right. However, the autonomy of the school does not mean that there is no central direction, a curriculum on which the school operates and lessons take place, and we consider that there is a need for the level of learning of children at every level and that everyone does what they want to do. School autonomy does not mean that every school alone is allowed to live on the parent’s coupons that the state will give, that the school will be abandoned in its luck, or will be looking for sponsors. That means autonomy for Mr Mitsotakis, and that is what I make the distinction that is important. School autonomy first of all means strengthening the collective operation of the Association of Teachers. Not to be afraid of them and say that, because they voted to make managers, it's a terrible crime that throws the level of education. No, we have to trust them and trust also has tasks, it also has obligations. No objections. So, then, the autonomy of schools does not mean what Mr Mitsotakis thinks about. That's dissolution of schools, not autonomy. School autonomy also means a possibility for schools to cooperate with local government, to be open to local government. It means a wealth that European experience has shown him, and even the left-wing municipalities in Europe and the trade unions have proposed on these issues. I repeat that it does not mean the formation of many high-speed schools and the dissolution of the school system. It doesn't mean, in short, a school of inequality. Third matter. A lot of talk about excellence. I would like to ask those gentlemen who are being cut off for excellence what they have done to upgrade the digital infrastructure of schools in primary and secondary education? The vast majority of schools, 92%, are still served by low-speed access, which makes it difficult to provide high-quality digital e-learning and e-government services from the Ministry in these schools. We are already implementing a pilot upgrade programme involving specific interventions in the school infrastructure. It will continue for the whole country. Through the national next generation broadband access plan, we ensure the broadband access of a new generation to all school and administrative units in our country's primary and secondary education. This is something that has begun, progresses and will be implemented soon. Fourth point. I heard Mr Mitsotakis talking about the need to have so many university graduates as the market wants. Does the market want to have ten thousand doctors? Ten thousand to get out. This was not achieved in the era of the very hard-directed Soviet economy. This thing can't be done. Of course it shows an economicism, an extreme economicism of the neoliberal view, which is being exercised at the expense of the citizens' right to education. I would like to say that this thing is also contrary to its general view of private education. He tells us to build private universities to get many students in there who, based on his logic, will come out and do what? Where are they gonna get a job, so I can get this straight? Unless he thinks we're going to have second-class universities in Greece, which will be the privates with class bonuses but to find children work in various categories. Are we going to have a medical school at a private university in Greece? What, in many introductorys - 'universities', does Mr Mitsotakis dream exactly? Next theme, there should be foreign languages in Greece. Sure. We have legislated the International University in cooperation with the other universities in our country to establish a course of undergraduate studies. No objections to this. However, this is on the basis of the public system and not the private ones you mentioned. In all the debate I have heard nothing about the system of access to universities, because if it is today, of course, we will not want to do so privately. But if it is another system, which we shall be discussing - and I ask the House to take the initiative to put forward such a proposal in the next few years by the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media - with an upgrade of high school, with the abolition of introductory examinations, with the strengthening of technical education, then things are different. That is how we need to talk, not by looking at the chaos and the inequality that exists today, but by seeing a sense of democratic educational reform. The whole day's school thing. 40% took part in the so-called ESA. Now all schools over four seats will have the same specialties. They will have from the first class English, informatics, theatrical education, all that has so far had an important portion, but only a portion of the schools. The full-day school will continue, for those who want, from 13.15 to 16.00, so there is no obstacle to the working family or the unemployed to leave their children from 13.15 to 16.00. No one was expelled, despite the noise that took place the previous time from the opposition. About the piles that Mr. Leventis mentioned, we have announced and proceed to a pile. In the evolution of this year, we expect to reach the two hundred and fifty thousand piles a day in all the municipalities that have joined the relevant programme. Ms. Fotou has already made specific communications on how to find the money. It's a very important issue, and it's one of our priorities. I left last - because it has a personal edge - a serious issue. I'm sorry Mr. Mitsotakis isn't here, but I have to answer. Mr Mitsotakis, taking advantage of the fact - which he is well-known - is not a secret - that I have not received a degree in law, although I have entered from the first, with my choice - and I do not need to mention to the House the reason - perpetuates an eternal student's literature. I'm not an eternal student. First of all, that. Second, it doesn't reduce me what she does, even though she does it to insult me. I'm not hiding anything from my life. I have a public course in both youth movements for education and my profession as a journalist and others that I do not now want to mention. I am sorry to say that Mr Mitsotakis is the driver of a mud in the field of electronic information, in the various electronic systems, for too long, and he thinks that in this way he can break my face or even worse, in my opinion, the face of the government. We are judged by our work and our morality. I'm not a princess. You can judge me for what I do as a Minister of Education or as a public person. Clear words. I don't have any knots. I'm not answering any convincingly to anyone. What impressed me, however, is not so much what Mr Mitsotakis said. All right, Mr. Mitsotakis makes a policy that does not respect his opponents, it turns out, despite his bourgeois politeness. I am surprised, however, that a person, who should be a man of Christian love and understanding, Metropolitan Kalavryton and Ayyaleas Mr. Ambrosios - world wide, because he was also a country guard, Athanasios Lenni - has released this brochure here. This booklet calls me a snake. He has a cognitive, which I don't know where he found it, where he says that all the fat guys are fools, so simply, so Christian and so insulting not to me - that does not matter at all - but for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, who have the problem of being overweight, and so insulting to those people who have sleep apnea, with the photograph he puts on. I don't think this thing affects me personally. But it raises the Church. It is not possible for a person, such as Mr Ambrosius, to conduct such an insulting campaign toward a person - unchristian campaign is that - and there is no placement of the administration of the Church. The theory that there is democracy and everyone does whatever it is, does not apply in our case, when Mr Ambrosios has a public office. He's a senior civil servant. Yesterday and yesterday I was told that, at the request of Mr Ambrose, the bells warned of my imminent death were ringing. Then the bells are ringing. It's the next step from the curse to rot my hand. Fortunately, God does not listen to the Ambrosians! However, one "left" of those whom Mr.Ambrosios described as "sweet hope of the nation" - so had Mr.Ambrosios spoke about the Golden Dawn - organized or unorganized, relied on by hatred - because this is the attitude of Mr.Ambrosios and not love - to want to substitute God as well. I'm not afraid of it, but it's a matter of democratic order. And I repeat that the administration of the Church should be placed. We cannot tolerate such controversy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot about my attitude to Religious Affairs. I explained it and it's self-evident, defending the secular school. Secondly, I have heard a lot because I referred to the role of the Church in dark times. Obviously it's not about all the people of the Church. In the Church, it is not just the ones wearing the shoulders, the highest clergy. It's the lowest lot, and it's the people. Part of the people is inside the Church. Alas! We refer to some ecclesiastical factors. The popular clergy, of course, participated during the fight against the conquerors and two Metropolitans who climbed the mountain, Kozanis and Elias, in fact, were removed after. One of them, in fact, was accused of cooperating with the communists. I'm saying that to get to know each other. In relation to the dictatorship, the world lives, the old people aren't gone. All right, I'll take the letter Mr. Jeronym sent me for the dictatorship's resistance. I was a kid, but I understood then. I have to say that I stand out from this period of two personalities. They could be more, but they were very few, very few. We live and we're all known now. One case was the priest - George Pyonakis. He was persecuted by the church establishment of that time, but there, in Elefsina that went, every Sunday his preaching was an act of resistance and collected many young people. This irresponsible priest, Pope Pyrunakis, put him in his sights by now Metropolitan Ambrosios. Nothing is random! Second face, less well-known, Timothy Lagudakis, a leventis from Crete. I met him when I was going to St. Nikolaos Pefkakias. He was a deacon. The polytechnic night rang the bells. Earlier, when the illegal and illegitimate elections were held in the student clubs, Timothy came down for a candidate, took five crosses, and then collected a list of twenty students that he was voted for and denounced the junta that had placed the polls in theological school. Timothy had the misfortune - unfortunately, these happen - to be killed in a car accident before the junta fell, when he was returning from the gesture of the current Metropolitan Kavala in Corinth since then Metropolitan Karanicla. Others may have been - I do not want to erase anyone's offer - but few, silent. A lot of people were co-operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u214	Others too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u215	Others, of course! I refer to two of my own personal experiences. And if this story doesn't like it, let it be rewritten. But I believe - as a citizen now I am talking - that it is not possible to leave us without us giving our experiences and others our scientific testimony and action to rewrite our country's history. With respect to the militant Church, with respect to the church's present charitable work, which is its statutory obligation - it is the first inducement that Christ gives us, that we be philanthropists and love our side like ourselves - with respect to all of this - I do not erase anything and I do not generalize - I want to say that there are pages of history that we cannot leave unwritten. I am presenting this text to the House - I do not want to describe it - and I hope that there will be a placement of the hierarchy of the Church of Greece. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u216	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Anagnostopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. After these clear words of the Minister of Education, which we hope to think about, why are we in difficult times, with a extreme right in this Parliament and racism and xenophobia prevailing, who and how many may be responsible when they make public speech? I mean three things. Firstly, we are proud of the EHS and their staff. They have done everything they could - and what they could not many times - throughout this time of crisis. We didn't try to bring private universities, because we don't have good publicity or anything like that. We tried to strengthen them, because this is the state's duty when it says education is public, public, and free of charge. The numbers are relentless. The catastrophe that we have done nothing, that the institutions are falling apart, is one of the usual versions of catastrophe that we hear all the time in this House and the media. I will not repeat that, with all our efforts to recruit higher education and research - a pity that Mr Fotakis has not spoken about, but the Prime Minister said very well - we have reached the point that we have more than twenty thousand people entering universities, the TEIs, the foundations, either as members of the LAGs, either as researchers, or with scholarships and all of this. I want to say one thing and reassure this from here, from Parliament: those who are cut off for the higher institutions are the ones who have curtailed - I would say that they have "checked" - the salaries of university teachers and teachers of the TEI. Special wages are not a privilege of these people who are the most educated and who are entering the labour market too late, at a very high age. So it's a matter of justice, the special salary we're fighting with. Mr Mitsotakis did not speak at all about what his thoughts are about the single area, nor about what his thoughts are about innovation, in fact, in front of him - he said that he read it - a bill on postgraduate and doctoral. He only stayed on something that they really dictated to him. I don't want to say that we talk to the academic community all the time. We are trying to make as careful steps as possible not to strangle higher education as it has been in previous years. Let me not remind you of the 'Athena' project. As far as excellence is concerned, I would like to say a word because I forgot it in my first speech. Which government has cut the budget of the IKY for scholarships of excellence? What government has brought back scholarships and, indeed, with too much trouble? This is a quiz that anyone who wants to answer. Finally, I would like to say a word about the conquests at universities, which do not all work. If the Civic Opposition and the other parties had spoken for twenty-seven years about the occupation of public air, which cost the Greek people so much, they would also have the right to speak about the occupations in the highest institutions. I would remind you that what the non-legality and licensing of the channels cost has not even cost one inch of the violence or occupation in the highest institutions. To discuss this issue as a problem, but after we have solved the other problems. Let me remind you of something about 1990-1991 and the occupations and about what happened at the time. Do I need to remind you that violence can be fuelled by the state itself? Should I remind you that at that time Temponer was murdered or that in 2008 Gregoropoulos was murdered, and that is why we had such an outbreak? Let us be very careful about what we say, because the more youth marginalizes, the more bad it is for democracy and for society and for its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has the floor for a trilogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u219	I will only need two minutes, Mr President, because the debate has been a long time. We're all tired and hungry, maybe, some of us. I would like to say that today there has been a debate that has been taken up by those who have followed it, and some conclusions have been drawn. I say that in the sense that opinions have been heard, positions have been heard and that is interesting. It is not the rule for the discussions that we are holding in Parliament. Different opinions have been heard. With regard to my position with the Chief of Officer Response, two different views were expressed on education, as we have different perspectives for the economy. It could be said that the views and positions on the issues of education have been reflected in the representation of two different worlds. On the one hand it is the public space and its defence, and on the other hand it is the world of the market. I would like to say that despite the fact that opinions are presented with a great distance to each other - the Chief of Officerial Response also admitted it - but the issues of education require an extermination, I would say, dialogue and an effort to be made. There are issues that cannot be achieved, but nonetheless it is worth it. However, the composition is the net position - as far as your positions are concerned, it was clear, Mr Mitsotakis - but not distortion. As far as the evaluation of our work is concerned, there has been a distortion in many respects. I do not want to talk again, because it will be reopened. Just to say briefly, full-day school, experimental, private schools, standards, what has happened. But now there is no point in opening the debate again. I say, therefore, that the first condition is the net position, not the distortion. The second condition is that we do not depart from the dialogue, because in the dialogue that has taken place, in good, I believe, climate, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for more than a year, there has been an attempt at compositions. I have read the conclusion of the dialogue - which does not sign it by the Civilian Opposition Party, but they sign it by other opposition parties - and I consider it a fertile step, despite the agreements and disagreements with the individual points that one can have, and useful material. The third condition is that we do not act in a sense that we will demolish everything. I was happy to see Mrs Giannakou here today who came to attend the debate. We may have had disagreements with what he has done, our strategy may be different, but neither Mr Baltas nor Mr Friend - Ministers of the Government of our own - have entered into a reasonable isotopic in relation to many of the things Mrs Giannakou has done. Of course, in many other options, because of this different viewpoint which I first analysed, there were interventions. So you're wrong with the logic that, "we're going to break everything you've done, we're going to take it all down with a law." It doesn't fit the tradition of your resignation. I would also like to say that despite our completely different view of evaluation - and I do not want to go back into this debate - there is something that would be worthwhile to see if we can approach. We all realise that there is certainly a need to evaluate the project. The question is how and why. If, then, the dialogue there could be extended, it might have made sense. In relation to private universities, there is disagreement. It is not worth it, however, to go to a level of café controversy, that anyone who disagrees with private universities does not have the right to make a choice for their children at a private primary school. I also think that this position is not a position that enriches political dialogue. On the contrary - and I would say - our positions on the university, which we want, for education and the perspective of this place, must be formulated clearly, but also in a perspective of composition, so that we can find a common basis. The subject of private universities is also a constitutional issue. I therefore believe that we will have a glorious field in the debate that will open for the Constitutional Review, to table our positions and proposals. Because, I admit, in this respect - and for the rest I told you that you had a clear position - I have not understood exactly what you have proposed. Are you proposing private universities, which, as some say, will be higher than the public Greek university? To be superior, they should have infrastructure and huge funds. I do not see who could currently invest in knowledge. As I also found a contradiction in what you said in relation to the closed number of doctors, for example, that the country today does not need so many doctors who produce Greek public universities - and the Minister of Education has identified this in his dentistry - because, Mr Mitsotakis, it is a contradiction with your liberal vision. Making, producing just those doctors, for example, can consume the market and the needs of a society is a logic of central planning, which I know you do not have. It is inconsistent with your view of private universities, but inconsistencies and your view that the universities themselves should be given self-determination to determine the number. At this point let me make a reference: Firstly, evaluation does not contravene equality. It can be assessed by maintaining the possibility of equal opportunities. Secondly, I want to repeat something that for us might sound a little ideological, but let us hear it because it has a value to say it. I consider the fact that there is a great tradition in Greek society - positive in my opinion - care, suffering, our children's care to study and therefore go to universities and study, whether in Greece or abroad, this is, in the end, a positive legacy. It is, perhaps, the most important chapter we have at the moment in the prospect of the country's reconstruction, human capital, high-qualified scientists, young scientists, either outside or inside. Those who are outside must make an effort to offer the place and bring them back in. But these are our important competitive advantage. I say this in the following sense: Knowledge - in our view - is self-evident. It is important to shape it, regardless of whether it can or cannot, depending on the circumstances, be absorbed from the labour market. If we let everything be fixed by the market, we would lose this important comparative advantage and lose the value of knowledge, the importance of forming citizens, of being citizens educated, of loving knowledge, well-informed, so that they can contribute effectively to the advance in the country's path. And the last one: we disagreed on many things. I understood, however, that there is an agreement on a matter of religious matters, where you - if I am not mistaken - said that it is necessary - I use your phrase - that there should be reform, that we proceed with reforming and changing the detailed programmes. Obviously, this will be through the necessary dialogue. So I repeat that this year the programmes that the institute, involving distinguished theologians, has come to an end - and it has become very serious, in my view, work - will go to school. It's testing this year. If one meeting with the Committee of the Church was not enough, there would be more. We'll hear the opinions. After all, the lesson will be evaluated at the end of the year. I believe that scientists of the institute, the IPE, will be able to record and incorporate the observations - fruitful remarks, substantial observations - and on the part of the Church. Writing will come next year. I believe, therefore, that this change is necessary as a positive step. I would add that there is also a need for fruitful dialogue and not conflicts at a critical time for the country as a whole. We need spiritual unity and we need to prevent conflicts and not to throw oil into the fire of future conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, held at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, on education, has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-28-S1-commons.u221	With the consent of the House at 18.05 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 29 September 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on No. 22/16/10-3-2016 topical and urgent question, in accordance with the agenda.
