ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 13 October 2016 to discuss the draft law at two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At the meeting on Tuesday 18 October 2016, which will normally begin at 10.00, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as one section. Today, first of all, we have made a decision at the Conference of Presidents, the sitting from 13.00 p.m. to 18.00 p.m. Having timed over the time periods of the general rapporteurs and speakers, the times of the Parliamentary Representatives and the time of the government, there will be some time left for some colleagues to speak during the speech of the first two rapporteurs. You'll put your card and open the system to sign up. However, since I have been informed that there will only be two questions for parliamentary scrutiny - and to inform the competent agency that the two ministers will not come to six - I think I will draw it a little, a half to seven o'clock, if I have your agreement to speak today with some of the Members of Parliament who will be present. Those who do not have time to speak today by the MPs will speak tomorrow without being re-registered. The list will continue in principle, both on the articles and on the amendments. For the amendments now. Three of the amendments have been discussed in committee and have been incorporated into the bill in articles. I think it's 15, 16 and 17. Four amendments have now been withdrawn - one has been withdrawn - and two have come this morning. I have informed the ministers, apart from Mr Vitsa, who will be absent tomorrow and asked to come today at two and a half o'clock, to present the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence, the other ministers will come tomorrow at the beginning of the meeting to present the amendments so that the parties can take into account what it is all about and what the Government's position is, so that when the rapporteurs, speakers and parliamentary representatives and Members of Parliament are put back, of course, unspeakable, to have a picture and to speak. The Minister has sent you to initialise some legislative improvements to the bill, which he will present in the Minutes and we will give them to you, after the first rapporteur, Mr Gavroglou, so that when you are placed, you can know what the legislative improvements are. Does this House agree with the procedure that you have heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u2	The procedure is, therefore, approved and Mr Gavroglou is called on in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u4	Do you have any legislative improvements ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u5	Oh, no. I'd like to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u6	Your suggestion is usually made after the rapporteurs and speakers speak and before the parliamentary representatives and Members speak you speak. Not that you're not allowed to talk now, but that's how it works. Come on, Mr. Gavroglou. You have the floor for 15 minutes, Professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in an extremely pleasant position, to talk and to discuss the establishment and functioning of a new institution, a new institution that can identify together with the directions of research and its funding. It is an independent body and it is an institution, which is used to operate, and has acquired enormous prestige, in countries of Europe for sure and in the United States. So we have to do with a new institution, and therefore it would be very important, that there should be as much consensus as possible on the project of establishment as on the project of its creation. An additional element, which should be stressed, is that the establishment of this institution - and I am sure that it will speak very thoroughly in this respect and the Minister - is done in terms of growth, not in terms of the current crisis, is not done to manage the crisis. As a colleague has rightly said, it is not possible to manage misery. It is an institution that can gain enormous momentum. There has been an impressive debate and agreement with the European Investment Bank and, of course, a government commitment to financing directly the institution itself. In this sense, it is an institution that looks forward and is therefore part of a development project, which is related to research and obviously to education. I am going to give a little parenthesis, because this kind of debate usually goes hand in hand with how good we are in the various indicators that express international research activities, and even educational activities and, more generally, the production that depends on the work of researchers. This is true, but at the same time something else applies. Our people, the Greek researchers who work mainly in research institutions and universities, are tired, because they operate in institutions with impressive underfunding, with everyday difficulties, with a difficulty in joining young people, etc. So we must be very strict and realistic at the same time, that is to say we must recognise the extremely important difficulties these people face and finally provide new prospects - and the foundation is precisely such an institution - but at the same time we must be extremely strict with all those years that have been smuggling in these efforts. In other words, we now have an institution which, in accordance with the procedures laid down and the extremely broad participation of universities and TEI, will succeed in creating those conditions where the excellent ones will be rewarded either those who are already in the research centres or those who are already in the universities, but most important those who are outside these institutions, namely the various young scientists. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media where the bill was discussed, several colleagues from the Representation raised the issue of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, GEET, saying that they could play a corresponding role with that of the institution. This is where we think there's a misunderstanding. The role of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology is another and the role of the institution to be set up. The General Secretariat of Research and Technology is primarily responsible for managing the NSRP, and it is doing so with extremely great responsibility and success. The new institution will decide together with other research institutions and guidelines and where the priorities will be given. This is something that seems to be of little importance, because how the directions of research are defined in a modern country, it is not too centralised, that is, few people are setting these guidelines and that it is spreading downwards. It is the coexistence of different actors in discussions with society and its institutions, and a research policy is compiled through it. I think that in the law that we passed in May and in the creation of the ESRB, the National Research and Innovation Council, we discussed relevant issues. The relevant issues are also raised in this institution. So the existence of different poles which are in consultation with each other and in consultation with society to define policies is a wealth in a country and it is nothing chaos. We must, of course, discuss this - and I understand the fears - see how it will be more creative, how, let us say, one specific direction will not be imposed on others. Of course, these are very serious issues. But we need to see how we preserve this pluralism, because pluralism is - if you like - and a pluralism of social messages, which each body takes, which has others to promote in these debates. So here I think that both the ESRB and the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology and this institution are institutions that are very successful in working together and, of course, in finding additional funds. Because research in Greece should open up something that the Minister particularly highlights to us every time and that is the opening-up to entrepreneurship. But let us not think that government institutions are problematic, whereas businesses, the economy and the labour market are fine. Here, too, companies and the labour market must redefined their role, considering that the use of innovation is not an automatic one, but investment by investors is also needed on the part of businesses. Here, unfortunately, many enterprises are'shared' enterprises. Speaking now of business, I know that I challenge my dear colleagues from the Communist Party of Greece. What do I mean, "provoke"? I mean, business, all they think about is capitalism, profits, and obviously anything that they make use of, they will make use of it in this direction. That's right. No one disputes that. The question is whether, at the same time, there can also be activities which develop the social good, the public good, because the results of the survey are of course exploited by businesses for their own reasons. Our question today at this juncture, at this time and in this world we are living in is whether we can also open up those rams, where there will be research and its results as public goods. Our conviction is that this can be done. Is it going to be automatic? The answer is no. All actors in society should play a role in this. Should they be competitive in companies? Our answer is no, to be clean. Obviously, companies also have their role, in so far as they are within a healthy entrepreneurship framework. So this institution together with all other institutions also has a strategic role, not only for how to share the money, not only for how it will be done in a meritful way, but also for how it will be opened in society. Society in terms of research results has essentially two strands. One part is how healthy entrepreneurship will take advantage of innovation and the second is how public bodies, public institutions will strengthen the results of research as a social asset as a public asset. I insist that nothing is given and nothing is easy. But that is our goal. I'd like to make a suggestion. You know that the original bill did not provide for the participation of TEIs in the general meeting of this institution. After a discussion in the Committee on Educational Affairs with colleagues from the TEIs, but also the discussions with the Ministry, the TEIs are now part of this general assembly. We regard this as a very positive one, because we also regard it as a precursor to what we call the'single space for research and technology'. We've said it again from this Step. The future of TEIs is their upgrade. The future of TEIs is not to think of them as second things. I think that what is being done with the general meeting is a very solid step. I'm finishing up with what we're talking about, and it's about new scientists. One of the most serious, if not the most serious issue facing research institutions, universities, research centres, TEIs, etc., is the fact that young scientists are staying outside of them. What we are proposing is not only to introduce young scientists into new posts. This is very important and it has already begun to happen. What we are proposing and making a call to these institutions is to open up to society and their society to excellent young scientists. This institution will provide not only postdoctoral scholarships, but will also provide all those means with specific rules, where to cooperate in research groups it will not be compulsory to be a permanent member of the TEIs, universities or research centres. In this sense, the foundation makes, if you like, and ideologically and politically an opening to this world that is outside and specific ways need to be found for these people to cooperate with universities and TEIs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Mrs Antoniou, a member of the New Democracy Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the ELIDEEC, the result of the ministerial amendment by which the Minister of State, Nicos Pappas, and the other signatories to the government, attempted last Friday evening, as proof once again of the rule of law which holds them without respecting the institutions of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u10	She's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, yeah, wait. This amendment has been withdrawn, as you said, ladies and gentlemen, but we will see, because something tells me that you will bring it back, so that you can put it back on TV. Why did you testify to her after you withdrew her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u12	If you're blocking the ERR again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u13	Let's go see the foundation you create, the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation. So, again, despite all the preparation for a year and a half - we hear it will come, that it will be done with tymph conflicts - a rough, illegitimate bill with too many misgivings - we have said so to the committee - between the provisions of the draft law and the explanatory statement, which little resembles the original draft of the consultation, which only came out for twelve days, I have to say. Only during the discussions in the committees, ladies and gentlemen, almost twenty-four legislative improvements were made to the fourteen articles in the bill. Double! There is no other legislative precedent. It's obvious you don't know what you're doing, Minister, or you don't know how to legislate, one of the two. Basically, we're talking about a new, he says, bill after the legislative improvements. These legislative improvements concern basic regulation of the bill, not formal errors, and they were all in points, which we built as a Professional Opposition in every way possible. This is, therefore, a bill, in which we once again see your unacceptable parliamentary practice, to introduce a number of ministerial amendments which are completely irrelevant to the content of the bill. He's become a joke now. So let's go see what's in the bill. After the incidents of this kind and of Mr Fotakis' Minister, a year and a half ago, and also from the Prime Minister himself in PPC, you say that you are creating a new body, the ELIDEK, which, from what we see from the bill, is the main responsibility of managing a funding of 180 million euros, which will be paid over the next three years, on the basis of the contract signed by the Greek State with the European Investment Bank on 15 July. It is a loan contract, which we must say, while as a Qualification, we asked that the Minister should present it to us, on 22 July, I submitted a request for a document, which I asked from both ministries to submit to me - and that is why the other colleagues, who are not in the committees, should be informed - and one of the Ministry said that it is the other. The Ministry of Finance was responsible for the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education told me that it was the Ministry of Finance. I'm asking a topical question. We were not given the contract again. Because it was such a sealed secret, I don't know. So the bill's here. After the pressure of all the Opposition, finally, the contract with the EIB was submitted. So all this had to be preceded, and you haven't answered us, because you kept it as a seven-sealed secret to the contract. So, since we have seen the loan agreement with the EIB, we have assured you - because we have said so many times in committee - that we are not opposed to the loan in itself. What we are opposed is the advisability of creating another body, a 'legal person of a non-profit-making nature', he says. Neologicism! What, really, is the need to create this institution? Reading the objectives and responsibilities of the ELIDEEC, one can easily understand that they coincide entirely with the responsibilities and objectives of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. You were also stressed by all the employees' representatives at the hearing. I would like to mention a few examples. In Article 2, where the purpose of setting up this institution is described, it is laid down that the purpose is to finance research programmes, which GDR has done for thirty years without doubt a great success. It also defines as a purpose the award of scholarships for candidate doctoral doctorates, which has also been done by GET for many years with excellence. Third purpose as referred to in Article, is to finance the purchase of research equipment carried out by the GGET through the Crete programme. Support for a programme of start-ups you say, which GGEET has also dealt with through the spin off and spin out programs and many other examples. If you are not convinced by the arguments of the representatives of the General Secretariat, Minister, you can refer to the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. This report expressly states that it would be appropriate to set out more clearly the framework within which the two entities, EMI and GIO will operate at the same time and possibly cooperate, while indicating that Article 2 which refers to their objectives requires clarification. Another proof of the absence of this centre, a new legal person of private law, is that with Law 4415/2016, which was passed a month ago and under Article 47, you entrusted GGEET with managing the first instalment of the advance of 18 million from the EIB, by the loan contract. Do you actually trust GETT or not? You still didn't explain to us why the GDR is capable of managing the first 18 million of the loan contract and not the rest. Why should the rest of the money not go through the central public management body, the legal person governed by public law, so that they can end up more easily where you should or want? Minister, you may argue that the ELIDEK will be working in addition to the GDR, but it is more than certain that the new body will bring about confusion and fragmentation of competences. I'll explain why. There are already three bodies implementing research and innovation actions. The EBRD - EBRD, as an exception to the NSRP law, has as a special service, the EEAS has a special agency managed by the NSRP's EMS on entrepreneurship and competitiveness, GSET, and other activities, such as the grant of IKY scholarships. Where do all these bodies meet? Who coordinates them? Already with the three bodies I mentioned - the EBRD - EBRD, the EEAS, the GDR - it is true that you have not been able to absorb 1 euro of the EUR 1.2 billion that you have had since the current programming period. So in the part of research and innovation, ladies and gentlemen, we have through the ETUC EUR 1.2 billion. You haven't done anything for twenty months about this funding from the ETUC. It's not a loan. You have therefore only announced two budget actions of EUR 104 million, without evaluation, without signature, without any funds. I have asked you a question on this matter and I still have not received an answer. Instead of crying you haven't done anything for twenty months for a funding of 1.2 billion, you celebrate the 180 million euros of the loan. Everything is built chaoticly in the Nebula of SYRIZA, and I am very afraid that all you are interested in is to control the course of financing, as you have done with the choices of the presiding research centres, where you have designated the provisional ESREC. You had, he says, a lot of important scientists. How is it - I have tabled it to the committee and, if necessary, will I give it back to you - the same person to participate in three committees and another person to two? Is that the multitude of scientists? Is that why they're joining the committees themselves to get the presidents of the research centres out? The only thing you do, therefore, is to control the entire area of the investigation, while the entire management of the EUR 180 million loan could well be done by the GDR, without any additional financial costs. You charge Greek citizens the cost of establishing and operating an institution, which is not even specified in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Minister, we would have been positive if you had made sure that you supported this institution not only in the loan - clearly also in the loan - but also in the participation of private capital or institutions in order to link the research result with production, industry and the creation of new jobs. Unfortunately, there is nothing like that. There is also no care to ensure the viability of the institution at the end of the loan. Nothing is written in the bill after the end of the three-year period. It reminds me of the phrase of a well-known politician, Minister, who said that the problem with socialism is how it ends when people's money is over. I am afraid, Minister, that the same will happen with the ELIDEK when the SEPT loan is finished. You also say that the establishment of the institution is in the context of the national strategy, the strategy that you yourself circumvented. I would remind you that you voted explicitly in Article 5 of Law No4386/2016, that the final draft of the ESTAK, the National Strategy for Research, Technological Development and Innovation - the national strategy, of course, refers to the seven years, so the law - will, he says, be drafted by the GGB and will be voted on in Parliament. You didn't. So you're destroying the law you brought in and voted on. Can you say that establishing a body is a national strategy? But, Minister, you mentioned ironically to the committees that in the past years, in the past, they were pomegranate, research was blossoming, etc. I ask you directly, Minister, what part of your responsibility is there for this? You didn't answer me. You have held top positions in the research community for many years. You were, that is, President of FORTH from 2011, Director of the Institute of Electronic Structure and Lazer of FORTH, Coordinator of the meeting of the Conference of Presidents of the Research Centres from July 2012 to December 2013, Chairman of the Scientific Council of the EMCDDA “DIMOCRITIS”. You represented the country on European Union committees, with the presidency of the country in the European Union. I don't think there's a lot of people in the country who have enjoyed the good of the old man like you. What have you done all these years, Minister, from the positions you have taken, to stop the 'brain drain'? You claim that the main objective of the bill is to intercept the 'brain drain'. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] You will give me some time, Mr President, because that is enough. We tell you that, as you should know, as you are from the area, all that could stop 'brain', is the creation and safeguarding of an environment in which researchers could inevitably deal with their objects with decent remuneration and, most importantly, with the linkage of the research result to the growth and creation of new jobs. If you do not give a vision to young scientists, if you do not guarantee them proper working conditions, all you will achieve with the three-year funding, Minister, is to train, specialize and after the projects are completed to seek work abroad. I am sorry, Minister, because I note that although you come from the research area, you have no vision and no long-term development plan. You keep saying, of course, that the creation of the ELIDEC will be the beginning of a comprehensive development project for research, which you are keeping us secret. Obviously, that is, there is no. You have presented to us today nothing but fragmentary and ideological legislative interventions, which have no cohesion. In terms of the structure and functioning of the institution, we will also see it on the articles - a non-flexible body with many bureaucratic claws and a ministries. However, I will see you in the debate on the articles. The truth is, however, that the main concern and the main structure of the bill did not change. It remains under your supervision and it is true that you want to control it. As I said in detail on the subject of 'contact of interest'. We cannot have the general meeting of those who, in any case, will be the ones who will receive the funding. In conclusion, I would like to say this: obviously you are also aware, Minister, that your residence time at the governance wheel of the country is falling dangerously. You have repeated many times to the committees that we do not have the luxury to wait and that we are in a hurry to take the money to make it available to the research community, while you have EUR 1.2 billion and you have not made it available. Why are you in a hurry, Minister? For the sake of our researchers and new scientists? Oh, no. You are in a hurry for your own political survival and you wish to share some money to fish party customers. I told you before, I repeat it and now our young scientists need more than anything else, vision and perspective. You and your government each day that passes, you deprive them of it more and more. In conclusion, you said that we disagree with the loan contract. You're lying. Let us repeat this clearly. We do not disagree with the loan contract, but with the management of the money it will bring. At the same time as Greek citizens are invited to pay by the end of 2016 more than 10 billion euros in taxes, where the late debts of households in public, banks, insurance funds are over 200 billion, which a large part of the citizens are no longer able to pay, you are coming and charged with the costs of setting up and running another institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Antonio, you need to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u15	I'll be done in a minute. Every day you also set up something new - general, special secretariat - like mushrooms, which we do not know how much it costs, with a single purpose: to end up the money rushpheologically where it should be. But you know that well. You've been doing it many years in the past. Unfortunately, for the Greek people it turns out once again that you are older than the old and every day you are destroying the country. In the offense you've chosen, we're not following you. Cheers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of thirty-seven members from the Panhellenic Organization "The Greek Hestia". The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u18	Minister, I will give you the floor for three minutes but for the first and last time, because you have to keep what you want and then in your speech to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u19	Much less time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u20	If the next speaker refers again to you and ask you again for the floor and the next speaker does the same, you realize that we will not end this. However, because we have been at ease of time today, you have the floor for three minutes. Then keep your notes and you will answer when you are placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u21	I will need less than three minutes, Mr President. Once again, it is really difficult for me to watch Mrs Antonio's opposition oyster. I will not go into the personal tops. Everyone has his course and this course is judged. What I would like to say, however, is - because he mentioned various positions that I was in - that if something happened at this time, it was done despite the environment that existed and was completely opposite to any forward path, as he was supposed to be invoking. I would like to mention something very specific here. Between 2008 and 2015, at the end of 2014, more than EUR 6 billion was allocated for research and technological development in the country as a whole. The question is, what remarkable business use of research results has been made and what social needs have been served. We must hear them from those who are now being cut off and advise us on linking the research to production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u22	'VODAFONE'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u23	On the contrary, the gap in innovation has opened. There is a lot I can say about it, but I respect the time and the limitations that exist. As far as the rest of the personal tops are concerned, I let them pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u24	They weren't peaks! Personal criticism was, within the context of decency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u25	It was critical.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u26	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Antony Gregos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. We will not enter this confrontation between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, one that we consider to be entirely virtual. There are very few differences between these two parties. In this bill, their differences fall within the management of funds, as New Democracy has done, and as SYRIZA wants to do today. At the time we are discussing the establishment of the National Institute for Research and Innovation, the debts in households and businesses are increasing, unemployment strikes young scientists who are now working for EUR 200 and 300 and growth is not going to come, no matter how much the Prime Minister announces this. Also, state appropriations for research and development are constantly falling, and, as we said in committee, according to official ELSTAT figures, for 2014 appropriations amounted to 0.44% of GDP and for 2015 0.43% of GDP. It's really indicative as well as tragic. The Minister said that such institutions exist in Europe too. But again, Minister, the economic situation here is completely different. We also told you to take into account the comments made by the Greek Investigators' Association on the articles. Of course, voting bills bearing the signature Friend is considered political contamination for us. However, I would like to say here about what the bill says and about borrowing, that you know very well that lending is not healthy at all. And we asked the committee how this loan would be repaid and what would happen after the loan amount was exhausted. Are we going to get a new loan? Is the foundation going to be dissolved? What exactly will happen? At all the meetings that took place during the debate of the bill in committee - despite the fact that, after our comments and the comments of the bodies, some improvements were made - we said in detail that we insisted on voting against the bill. It is accumulative and ironic to go ahead with the establishment of a new body, the National Institute for Research and Innovation, with a loan contract and an uncertain future, despite the fact that the scientific and research community deserves all assistance and support. At the moment, homeland also needs strong minds, as we say, which continue to leave abroad, which is the result of governmental manipulations, both yours and the previous ones. As regards the vote on the bill, we distinguish between Articles 15, 16 and 17 and the amendments incorporated in the bill. However, we will also be talking about the amendments tomorrow. You, of course, continue the same tactic as the previous government, that is to say, to bring unreasonable amendments to unrelated bills. This bill concerns the establishment, as we have said before, and the financing of the Research and Innovation Foundation, namely a new organisation with vague and disguised responsibilities with a view to restoring another army of days. For example, despite the mediation of the committees, in which it was stressed at least by the Golden Dawn that the purpose of the bill is to staff another party army, the legislative improvements tabled do not alter the substance of the bill in any way. The Minister of Education shall become the absolute monarch in the establishment, staffing and activity of the institution in question, who shall be financed with coarse money. Essentially, according to the explanatory statement, the institution aims to fund research programmes and to grant grants in the context of the national research and innovation strategy. As the explanatory statement itself admits, the operation of the Foundation is complementary to that of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. It is therefore clear from the preamble that this is another state - 'partner' - we would say better - an organization within the framework of the well-known policy that this government is conducting. This unacceptable content comes to confirm this in the special report referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 75 that the expenditure on financing the institution is EUR 240 million, of which EUR 180 million comes from a loan from the European Investment Bank, which is added to the public debt in the midst of the most fragile economic crisis in the country at the moment. What other proof is needed in order to understand that the establishment of the foundation is nothing more than another effort within the framework of the corollary of party officials, without any hope of work in the multitude of research in that country. What are the government's policies to stimulate research in universities and research institutions in the country since it was elected? What has changed over the past two years in this area? Four hundred and fifty thousand young Greek scientists left the country, enriching with their knowledge and experience the countries in which they fled. Universities have changed to illegal immigrants' and left-wing bazaars, while all over the world they are the focal points of learning and research. Your left-wing ideas are those that guide your research policy and not the country's need to highlight its achievements in innovation and science. The first demonstration of this fact is that while Greek minds dive around the world with any aspect of science and technology, in Greece they are forced to fight bureaucracy and the unemployed and state-owned trade unionists. Second proof that so far no link between university knowledge and the market has been achieved, and even in the few cases where there is a chance that the research data of that country may be used or lost or migrated to foreign firms abroad, costing millions in the tested Greek society. In fact, all this is happening when the country has a Secretariat of Research and Technology and all the necessary administrative structures to accept funds for growth and research linked to the demands of the labour market, so that, on the one hand, young scientists who innovate can be exploited by Greek productive investments and, on the other, to stimulate the competitiveness of the Greek economy, which has suffered other sacrifices in your government. The linking of research to production, however, cannot be a priority in the anachronistic, state-run and bureaucratic system that you support ideologically. On the other hand, the neoliberal abundance of research by multinationals and its unilateral development only in the sectors that finance businesses are the model that the Right in Greece supposedly supports, but which did not want to impose the years of its governance, since it was also the victim of its ideas. Therefore, our position is that research is a state responsibility, but it must be accompanied by the freedoms necessary for its development. But it also needs to be financed for most of it, not from the low budget of a bankrupt economy, but from private funds, donations and donations, which will link the research project to productive development, which is completely missing from Greece in recent years. So this is the model that we are looking for in the field of research and technology and which, under no circumstances can be achieved either with the socialist substitutes that you propose, nor with the failed bureaucratic model, the so-called right-wing modernists of Mr Mitsotakis. A simple reading of the articles in the bill makes us understand that what is likely to be referred to, even this, will fall into the void. Even in the legislative improvements, which were supposed to improve provisions, on the basis of the comments made to the committee - exactly the bodies said - the Scientific Council is formed by a Minister's decision. It is Article 8(6) for which the relevant bodies have also been expressed. The government's sole retreat in relation to the first project it brought to the committee, which is certainly neither important nor alters the way it is considering imposing its party army in the field of investigation, was as follows: The staff of the institution are not seconded directly by a Minister's decision, but following a call for expressions of interest published on the institution's website in accordance with Article 10(3). It is obvious that this call for expressions of interest is absolutely irrelevant in the designs of an ideological government. It will simply be the alibi, so that the appointments and decisions of the two days can be made with legality, without changing anything in substance. As already emerges from the first article of the bill, the institution will be part of the wider public sector while operating under the rules of the private economy. On the one hand, it will be directly responsible for the Minister for Education, who will not only supervise, but will also have the right to object to the decisions of his institutions and, on the other, will have the right to distribute funding, which is managed in a transparent manner, both in terms of his aims and the result. Why is it precisely the possibility of making financing beneficiaries of private sector enterprises and research institutions, and even from foreign countries, in accordance with Article 1(2)? What target is the possibility of funding scholarships of natural persons, regardless of their nationality and association with a specific educational establishment or research centre? These phrases prove, in our assessment, that you leave on purpose through general and vague formalities, a wide range of micro-policy with funds charged to the state budget to people or institutions of your choice and without any effective control over the management of these amounts. In other words, you continue under these unfavourable economic conditions to build your party state in the field of research and technology, as you have done in the rest of the public sector, whenever you can. It is also no coincidence that the assessors for assessing the proposals of the candidates for financing shall designate the Board of Directors whose members are appointed by the General Assembly in accordance with Article 7(10). The General Assembly, which is supposed to guarantee the independence of the institution and the fulfilment of its mission, shall directly accept the Minister's speech, which shall submit a reasoned objection against the appointment of a particular member (Article 7(3)(b). In fact, during its first formation, the members of the General Assembly shall be appointed for a two-year term on the basis of the draw result made at the first meeting of the institution. The Governing Body of the institution, which is the general meeting, other than the other powers, shall approve partnerships and cooperation with other bodies in the public and private sectors of the national and foreign sectors proposed, with the result that its members appointed in one way or another by the executive to finance any of the partnerships or persons, including foreigners, wish. With the alibi of the criterion of the private economy, and with the coating of the scientific authority, the government is attempting to manipulate the field of research and technology, and in an absolutely inconceivable and unnecessary manner, since the same can also be done through the GDR, which is, however, lacking resources. Thus, the invention of the establishment of an independent supposed body such as that institution has the sole or main purpose of restoring the general public sector officials and servants, who will in fact be charged directly with the Greek State's budget. Otherwise, what is the reason for notifying the members of the institution's scientific board by the President of the General Meeting to the Minister, if it is an independent body? In addition, the staff of the institution shall be recruited and employed either by contracts of indefinite duration, either the lease of work or private employment, or after secondment by any other public service or other legal person governed by public or private law by a decision of the supervisory minister, while the time of secondment shall be deemed to be the time of actual service and the remuneration shall be borne by the institution's budget. It is obvious that even today the most failed government in recent years has built its party state on the ruins of a country which has contributed by its presence to creating them. Along with the massive degradation of the values, traditions and institutions of the Greek society, which the Minister of Education, the most unacceptable Minister of Education - I am talking about Mr. Phile - from a recommendation from a Greek state, he has founded a spiritual nomenclara which he lacks and finances with money from the budget through the mansion of borrowing. The association of SYRIZA with notorious executives and former PASOK ministers, who have for years plunged into corruption and the dispersion of public money, has yielded fruit. The government, by easily and quickly learning all the tricks of those who the people sent to the unclaimed political life, became the best disciple who, at times of crisis, even surpassed the teacher. We have no illusion at all that this bill will be voted in favour of the government and useful opportune attendants. Universities and research institutes have always been the long hand of the party it governs, with the exception that after so-called post-population the Right had granted them to the Left, in order to carry out some exercises. We are voting against this bill not only because none of the proposals we have tabled have been accepted, but also because you have not told us at all that you intend to do something to develop research and technology in Greece, which we so much need. We will continue and refer to the articles and amendments which I said before that are very important in the debate on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes at a difficult time for the country, at a difficult time for our country, in a world troubled, I would say, in a Europe which is fearful, in a country that is constantly slipping and slipping into recession. But the government over others is curbing. All these days we have been living a deplorable opportunism, a lisverish in the name of a new Left. On the altar of political survival, in law and in the name of supposedly principles and values, tragic figures of the political system parade from us. They are the ones who want to change, as they say, the country. Who? The ones who led the country here. You are trying, ladies and gentlemen, to change the agenda with television licences, intervention in justice, out-of-institutional statements of its actors, the conference of the ruling party, the amendment to black on channels, which was finally withdrawn. Gentlemen, you will be blind. Why? Because around us there are geopolitical changes, international conditions being disputed, thoughts are raised by the neighbours who impose national unity, homogeneity, national conflict, to overcome the crisis. We have days now when we've been following the drachma's drachma's plan and we're out of place. A lot of the scripts that move in the background. Who? The famous negotiations. Unfortunately, all this has led our country to control funds and to the third memorandum. You also insist with unique support, of course, on the Greek Party of Independents and some relocations from the bench of political opportunism, which have also been thrown to the ground, something that is nowadays. What can you do? You should rule the country. How? When it is accepted by everyone that there is a need for political consensus, for wider political consensus. Plan, gentlemen of the government. You are mistakenly mistaken and unfortunately with your policy, you are insisting on deadlocks in the economy, growth, unemployment, undeterminedness, the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises, of young people who drive outside the country, of young people who move our handkerchief and flee abroad, to the extermination of the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, which is currently being discussed at the outset and tomorrow on the articles and amendments, the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation, ELIDEK, is being set up. The purpose of the Foundation is mainly to finance research programmes and to provide grants. He doesn't, of course, find us opposing. Beneficiaries are the SNEs and the public research and technological institutions of the country. The bill is composed of fifteen articles, which are detailed in the establishment, the legal nature, the operation and the institutions of the institution. Of course, we will talk about this tomorrow more. A detailed description of the institution's financing is also provided, as well as the procedure for the notice, evaluation and funding of proposals. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is for the House, of course, because while we had a long debate in the research bill, where this institution should have been, did not come up with the question of setting up. It shows once again the deficit of the substantial political planning for education by the government, the curiosity of leadership, the ministry to legislate without vision and of course without consultation. The infamous dialogue, the dialogue on education proposed by the Prime Minister in September 1915 and by the Minister, Mr. Phile, is no longer a pretext. But what is it? He's also fortified. So behind him are obsessed and predetermined interventions of the Ministry towards the degradation of the education provided, of course, at all levels. The Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation is established not by funding from the European Investment Bank, but by how? With the loan of 180 million from the Investment Bank and 60 million from the Greek State, then there is a public debt burden of 180 million, plus the interest required by the loan contract, as well as the public debt burden of 60 million euros, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. It is, of course, a question of getting this money and what will happen, of course, with the ELIDEH over the last two years. After all, the field of research and innovation in our country is an important factor in the development and strengthening of our economy. Our country has excellent scientific potential and skilled technocrats, which we must of course support at last. That is why it is imperative now that we establish a modern and realistic model of organisation between the public and private research. This, of course, Mr Minister, will give a new impetus to research, speed up the design of the national research strategy and make use of all the research potential of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, it must finally be understood from all sides that there is no need for misery in education. We must also go beyond ourselves, we must move with open horizons, we must see beyond our parties. We must seek an effective interaction between what we believe and, of course, what must be done. And, of course, to see today between the public and private research what needs to be done. We must therefore seek greater transparency, which is a bet on all of us, namely the rational distribution of resources and the evaluation and evaluation of programmes. The issue is one: we must stop Brain Drain, the leakage of Greek scientists abroad. That is why I will agree with you, Minister, that in fact the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation can in circumstances be a tool for development and a tool for supporting research and innovation. At the same time, of course, we should see the support for the operation of the GSP, because the GSP is really a secretariat of which it was valuable and must continue its work unintentionally. That is why it should be strengthened by staff, which it needs. And, of course, the working rights of officials should in fact be fully guaranteed. But we must be clear, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not going to create a Trojan horse, which will undermine the functioning of the GDR. At the meetings of the two committees of the House, I raised specific issues, which strengthen the threefold: transparency, merits and evaluation, with the participation of the TEIs in the General Assembly and the Scientific Council, on the sustainability of the institution beyond the three years, on the evaluation of the administrative bodies, on the recruitment process through AEPs, on incompatibility, on the increased majorities, on the changes of members to the General Assembly, on transparency with an open call for secondments. The legislative improvements you have made - you have accepted fundamentally and our own proposals - indeed incorporate too many of our own proposals. In particular, the research institutes were added to the potential beneficiaries of ELIDEEC. It was stated that the notices should include instructions on how candidates' objections and objections will be raised. It was established that renowned scientists are selected as members of the general assembly with extensive research work, with extensive research experience. Participation in the General Meeting of all TEIs which fulfil physical criteria of significant research performance. The Minister's capacity to impose or object against a member of the General Assembly and the Scientific Council has been abolished. The compensation of members of the general meeting shall be abolished. It is also foreseen that the draw for the members of the Scientific Council will be held by the General Assembly. The selection of the two Deputy Directors will be made after an open call of interest, where the Director will have the main reason for his partners. A qualified majority was also adopted on the Scientific Council, six out of nine for the cessation of the Director, and it was stated that the secondments would take place with an open call of interest. A three-month period shall be set for the exercise of transitional responsibilities by the Minister and shall be provided for the exercise of those responsibilities which are strictly necessary for the start of the operation of the ELIFE. We believe that, with the above proposals by operators and the comments of the special speakers you have incorporated, Minister, the bill is moving in the right direction. I am already aware that in the first week of November we will also have the proclamation for the support of the candidate doctors from the ELIDEK, and that is of course very positive. We shall vote 'yes' for all of this at the beginning of the bill. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a reference to political topicality. The SYRIZA conference was completed, a conference at which the referendum on "OHI" held "NAH" was deposited, the referendum that caused the capital controls to be imposed. The Government has built the new ‘Gorgopotamo’. We wonder, gentlemen of SYRIZA: Do you not feel badly used Gorgopotamos as a symbol of subjugation of the government to the mints of Siomple, for the third memorandum and the storm of taxes, cuts and auctions, to divest national wealth for ninety years? Ladies and gentlemen, why, in the period 2009-2011, when PASOK was defining the national strategy, did you mock and complain and all of you were across the street? Today that 2009-2011 PASOK is justified. I want to remind you that SYRIZA was then fortified on the easy antimonetary front that he promised to abolish with a law, with an article the tough memorandum and erase the debt. Your intransigence, gentlemen of the government, for national cooperation has prolonged the country's caging in the crisis. Today we see that the government is turning to realism - that is positive - and forgets every demagogic 'Koruna'. First the government of Papademos joined. Where? On the road and on the platform that PASOK engraved during the period 2009-2011. Who else? Then the Samara government. Remind Samara of the three Zappaian and eighteen billion equivalents. The government “first time left”, the Tsipras government of January 2015 and the Tsipra government of September 2015. We are proud and the speaker, as I am a new Member, I would like to say: I am proud to be PASOK, I am proud of the country's governance from PASOK between 2009 and 2011. As I declare proud, let me also state that in PASOK the clergy were asked to lift the weight between 2009 and 2011, so that the country could exist, so that Mr Leventis, who often makes us highly critical, can be in the House today. We have done nothing more than we have done to a patriotic party to support the country. We did everything we needed to keep the country up. We have been haunted, but we have proposed the country's interest. I come to the issue of red loans, which is a matter of the days, which has caused...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleague, you know that by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u31	I'm in 15th, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u32	No, it's not like that. If you read the Rules of Procedure, it is clear what each Member is talking about, but we are not talking about red loans as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I should like to thank you and say in closing that we were the first to say that the borrowers of foreign funds should have taken the loans to households, households and not to banks. This is what we are asking today for, before the borrowers of foreign funds, to be exemplified by the brothers of Cyprus. In conclusion, I will say that the country needs a national consensus and especially a debt, to make use of the PASOK acquis of the November 2012 agreement. Immediately afterwards, we must bend on the jobs and the government needs to set some red lines and not retreat to ensure the basic achievements. That is why our President, Mrs Fofis Gennimatas, is the only solution, the only way out: a government of national unity with a European course from this House, to tackle the tragic deadlocks on which we have in fact been driven on your own responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u34	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The aim of education and research in the modern capitalist economy is double. On the one hand, the transmission of human knowledge accumulated and the production of new knowledge so that future workers can work productively and efficiently for capital. The second, and perhaps more important, concerns the ideological preparation of future workers and those who transmit and produce new knowledge so that they can integrate and assimilate the values and ideals of the system, which are not just individualism, competition and entrepreneurship, and not question them. Man is the main productive power that mobilizes all the others. In the context of capitalism, however, this production power is transformed into 'human capital', that is, a'special' commodity which, like any commodity, is a source of profit for the current holders of the means of production. So who determines what the young man is learning and then what he's investigating if he becomes an investigator? But, of course, the capitalist market, that is, the capitalists' competition for the maximum profit, the ultimate value of the capitalist system and the least cost to them. And because there is a lot of talk about healthy entrepreneurship here, it should be clarified that healthy enterprises that are competitive and profitable and those who do not have these characteristics are considered ill and unsustainable. And that is what the current President and the former President of BSE are imprinting too much. Now he says: "To link the many and good research carried out at the Greek universities with their businesses and needs". The reason why the former President of BSE explains this: "The most important factor of goodwill is knowledge, along with flexibility and continuing training." The chapter has two things to do with increasing labour productivity: on the one hand, the wide-ranging use of new technologies, modern, complex means of production - and here is the role of research and innovation - and on the other - and on the other - the consequence of the first - a more skilled workforce, with more comprehensive knowledge of the working conditions of production, changes in the organisation of work, what the bourgeois call 'increasing demand for qualifications of medium and higher levels'. How do capitalists respond to all that reflect the huge socialization of labour and the need to overcome individual-cooperative ownership in the means of production? With the continuous reorganisation of human work, but with the aim of capitalist gain, which leads to the present hell for workers and their children - teachers and researchers, of course, not excluding - with the intensity of exploitation, unemployment, flexible labour relations and much more. At the opposite side of this policy is the link between the many and good research carried out at the Greek universities and research centres, with the society and its needs, which the JRC is fighting for. These are the two concepts, the metaphysical - idealist and the dialectical - materialistic concept, the two worlds, the world of research - commodity and the world of research - social good, the two classes, the bourgeois and the labour, with the diametrically opposite targets. In order to have an overall assessment of the urban strategy for the development of research, we need to take into account the relevant developments at European Union level, and the overall planning of the urban order for the country's exit from the crisis, the controversy about the next day, the priorities set, the management mix to be implemented, and who will undertake the implementation of the capital recovery plan and the strengthening of its competitiveness. It is thus no coincidence that the directions and arrangements promoted are part of the ‘national overall reform and development effort’. The idea is that "Strengthening research and innovation is a lever for growth, a tool for exiting the crisis". This position is reproduced by the Qualified Opposition and the rest of urban parties, who want even faster privatisation and commercialisation of research. Behind its philosophy, however, research and development are not class-neutral, but are a package of production relationships, the capitalist road in the present conditions. Besides, the aim of increasing competitiveness does not hold anything positive for the people's layers, since all the anti-popular overturns have been made in its appeal. This objective comes to serve this bill for the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, the ELIDEK. What's the ELIDEK doing? It finances research projects. Grants scholarships for candidate doctors and post-doc. Financing the purchase of research equipment. Intermediates the access of universities, TEI, research and technology bodies to the funding of innovative research programmes. It supports the creation of newly created enterprises to exploit research results. What are his resources? From the state budget by public services and legal entities governed by public law, from the European Union and other international organisations, from the European Investment Bank, where it also takes the loan to start, sponsored by natural or legal persons internal or external. What's the staff? Posted officials from any other public service agency or other legal person governed by public or private law, by decision of the Supervisory Minister. Personnel under a fixed term contract of hire or employment or leasing order of up to three years, with the possibility of renewing. In the first phase, the EMIEC shall manage a loan from the European Investment Bank, which shall be given for this purpose and the establishment of an entity shall be required to manage it. So its very establishment is indicative of the government's targeting of how it perceives research policy, the raising of resources for it and how its results are exploited. Attributes refer to the bill: ‘ELIDEK operates in accordance with the rules of the private economy’. This alone is sufficient to demonstrate the full alignment of the Government with the objectives of the capital for the use of research to maximise its profitability and to minimise costs for it.’ The possibility provided for in the draft law of direct financing of domestic or external enterprises for synergies with research bodies is distinguished from those provided for in the draft law. Characteristics shall be indicated: ‘The EMI shall conclude all contracts, cooperation agreements and programming contracts with natural or legal persons, domestic or foreign. Traders of financing may be enterprises, educational and research establishments of the public or private sector of the country and abroad’. It is typical of the way the SYRIZA - ANEL Government perceives the development of research that has long been advertised, in fact it reflects the government's planning to finance the development of loan research! In fact, the management and the conditions for repayment of the loan, as well as the clauses in the case of non-inflationary investments will obviously be borne catalysts for the further development of the research tissue in the country, the future of the sector. The establishment of the EIIDEC marks the Government's intention to organise better the operation of the research bodies by setting up a central body, which is typically not under effective state control and is not accountable to the House, as it is administrative and financially self-sufficient. So, in the name of selfishness, the ELIDEK and on that basis the researchers will be hunters of programs. Businesses will not have resources for uncertain and unambiguously practicable basic research, but will also be ready to make use of it if something is directly applicable. But let us not deceive ourselves that researchers will do the basic research they want to satisfy their curiosity. The aim of the bill is developmental, as has been repeatedly stressed. Mr. Gavroglou said so a moment ago. This means creating a critical mass of young, apparel and cheap researchers in one or two areas, which are of interest to the large capital and which these one or two sectors are the national research strategy, so that the time for implementing the results of research into capitalist production is shortened as much as possible. Here comes and ties up the Brain Drain, which is seeking to become Brain-gain. In the context of the mobility of researchers, as this great chapter does, of course, it does not matter if Greek researchers go and go to other countries, but the influx of researchers from outside Greece, who are cheaper than the Greeks, are greater in order to create this critical mass of researchers in one or two areas of interest to capital. So the cost is borne by society and the benefit of businesses. It's so nice to see the chapter. The bill confirms that the plans of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL are coming to continue on the road that the urban strategy for research use has developed and emphasising the dimension of innovation. In addition to the above, ‘ELIDEK supports, through one-off financing, the creation and operation of newly created enterprises for the exploitation of research results’. Its use as a tool to promote commercialisation and business operation in the field of research is reflected in the staff anticipated, as there we meet all the working relationships, at the expense of which workers in the field are now closely involved. In particular, it also reproduces the status of GET and validates elastic relations, 'blocks', etc. Specifically, ‘the Foundation may employ staff with a fixed-term rental or employment contract or with a term of office of up to three years, which may be renewed’. Basically, the ELIDEK seems to have a competence and a purpose equivalent to the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, GIET, but it is given greater autonomy. Thus, the intention is to further downgrade the role of GDR, which has also been reflected in the recent law and while the ESA/ECB has already been strengthened as a single management body for almost all the relevant calls, vis-à-vis the GDR. So why is the Government triumphant about the ELIDEEC triumphant? How does it provide a loan to be channelled into research projects in the direction and manner in which it serves Euro-Union policy? What about replicating poor working relationships that every single day lead to thousands of young scientists fleeing the space? For the fact that research production remains committed to the logic of the funding of proposals for capital priorities? What does that mean? That it cannot be ensured that research production is continued, that long-term planning is introduced, that workers continue to work in the workplace with work on the subject and in accordance with their current needs. These are the consequences of the policy of commercialisation of research and its bodies, and we, as a JRC and in the recent debate on the new law on research, but also the workers in research with their mobilisations. What the government is actually trying to pursue through this draft law is to enhance the prospects for the capitalist development of the country by integrating the research sector into this design, with credit and new projects that are probably not even reaching the levels of the previous ones, while at the same time reproducing the existing sludge and difficult for workers in the field of research in the country. It is clear from the above that the JRC has to reject the draft law in principle, but also most of the articles, as well as the European Union's orientation and strategic planning of the bourgeoisie, the uncovering of the unpopular targets they serve. The plans of the large monopolistic groups in the Member States of the European Union, which in the end are reflected in political decisions, in the context of increased competition, do not simply take into account, but counter the needs of their peoples, destroy productive powers, distort productive potential. This is the path of capitalist development, and in this sense, research into the hands of capitalists, by a force that frees man's capabilities, is transformed into a force. For all these reasons, it is necessary to develop a racing action by the collective bodies active in the field of research, with the aim of preventing and effectively cancelling the implementation of reactionary restructurings. Such an effort can be effective if it is accompanied by an overall proposal of the movement, so that the development of research in the country can gain a different orientation, linked to another path of development, which our people need, where work and science will have been relieved of the heavy bonds of capitalist relations and which will aim to increase popular prosperity, to satisfy modern and enlarged people's needs. On this basis, the JRC sends a call to the research workers, all who feel locked up in business bonds and want to free the possibilities of research work, especially young scientists, to meet with the class labour movement, to contribute to the strengthening of the popular alliance, with the ultimate aim of the overall overthrow of this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The special speaker from the Potami, Mr George Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the draft law on the establishment of the body called the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, sooner HELIDEK. In the committees we spoke in detail about the plus and the other, and we made concrete proposals, because in every bill as Potami we are trying to identify the positive and negative points, to welcome the first and to try to eliminate or correct the second ones as far as possible. Our opposition position requires us to be strict in criticism, but we do not live there. We're also making suggestions. That is how we understand our role in Parliament. We know that this role has no viewing, no listeners, no headlines, but it has substance. We're also interested in the substance, not the line of the evening card. So the easy thing would be to do what you did, the current rulers, when you were in opposition, say 'no' to everything. And not anything else, but it seems that you are stuck with the New Democracy and we are living a déjà vu of the two years 2013-2014, but with opposite roles. We have said that this bill has positive and negative points. So let's start with the positive ones. We regard the loan with the European Investment Bank to a large extent as a personal effort by Mr Fotakis to find resources for research at a difficult time. It is objectively by the few ministers, perhaps the only one, who was already distinguished in his area before taking over the Ministry and has an integrated view of the subject. It is what we are saying at the beginning in Potami for Ministers, which are chosen on the basis of professional cv rather than party cv or relatives and buttons. I suspect, however, that the sole reason for the creation of the EMI is the conclusion of this loan with the European Investment Bank of 180 million. Since we are not particularly discerned about state efficiency, it seems that a condition has been introduced by the European Investment Bank to create an independent legal entity in the NSF, which exists in America and the ERC, which exists in the European Union. We are positively seeing this attempt to regain Brain Drain through the ELICE, at this critical period, which is growing. Greece cannot produce a labour-intensive economy as a model - we are neither China nor India - but a knowledge-intensive economy in order to exploit our comparative advantages. And the initial chapter to achieve this is the intellectual capital we have to keep in the country. But that's not good enough. It is necessary to link research and innovation with production, with economy and entrepreneurship. We hope this will be the next step, breaking the ideological stereotypes of a last century's left. Allow me here to give you a parentheses. In a knowledge-intensive economy, educational services, services, which our country can offer, can play by exploiting its rich human potential. There can also help to establish non-state universities, which you so obsessedly fight. We are the only country in the world forbidden. Knowledge is not a merchandise, they say the wars of private universities. But it's not health either. And yet, we have private doctors and private hospitals. The question is not what our ideological prejudices dictate to us, but what is best for society. And society's ready too. Why should thousands of scientists and students leave abroad while we can have them in the country and at the same time attract students from other countries when, in this area, there is appropriate capacity and all that needs to be created is a strict framework that will replace today's blurred landscape in the space? The country, therefore, needs more extroversion than enclosed in ideological wires to overcome its problems. But let's go back to ELIDEK. We were left on the positive points and I'm on it. One good thing is that there are the guarantees of independence from the respective government, since the general assembly is representatives from the IITs, universities and TEIs, namely the research centres, the main users of the funds. Another good thing is that all the posts will be openly invited - the positions of the scientific board, the director, staff, and even the secondments to the body - as long as these procedures are really open and open. Here we'll be present to check it out. We also welcome the intention shown by the Minister to adopt several of our proposals. But let's see what the negative is. With the establishment of the ELIDEEC, there is a question about what the role of the GSP will now be, what will be the relationship between the EESC, namely the National Research and Innovation Council and ELIDEEC, and what will be the relationship between the ELIDEEC and the National Strategy for Research, Technological Development and Innovation, i.e. the USSR. It is important that these bodies function in addition, that there be no duplication of competence and that the maximum possible synergies be achieved. This is something that also points out in the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament and I hope that it will be the reason for the ELIDEK to simplify procedures and the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. Another point which also needs attention is the risk of a multiplier of funds. The three-year definition, defined as the maximum under contract, limits the scope of the projects eligible for funding. In other words, it cannot act as a vehicle to fund intensive and targeted research structures, to create research cores and networks. As far as possible, the fragmentation of actions must be limited and an attempt must be made to integrate them into an integrated plan. However, the contract gives the possibility of extending two years of the project and it is something we must make use of. In the transitional provisions, too, there is an important issue. On the basis of Article 13 referred to in the transitional provisions, the five-member scientific committee chosen by the Minister will specify the qualifications of the members of the Scientific Council and the Director and publish the calls for candidates for the Scientific Council and the Director of the institution and then dismantle them. The selection of the Scientific Council will then, I suppose, be carried out by the General Assembly. With the legislative improvement presented by the Minister, the composition of the general assembly depends on the ESRB, the National Research and Innovation Council. But which one? The term of office of the Temporary EESC expired in September, on the basis of Article 25(8)c of L.4386/2016. The delay in the procedures of the EMI will therefore also be delayed by the EMI. So who's finally going to choose the scientific board and the director? The Minister again? I hope that we do not have an additional extension of the transitional period, which is actually ending 31-1-2017, and that the procedures will be accelerated. In conclusion, the ambitious draft for the EMIEC must not refer to something that will be mortal, which will end as soon as the loan contract is over. The loan is basically the fertilizer to grow something new, which should then feed itself. This is where the question of private resources arises, which may also arise from the commercial use of the works of ELIDEK or private donors. And that is something that I think we should see in Article 3, which refers to the Foundation's resources. The contract also refers to some outputs, which are very ambitious, in my opinion. The annual targets, as shown by the contract, are a hundred and ten patent applications, with ten patents safeguarding time and sixteen thousand seventeen hundred thirty - four publications in magazines, all year round. The numbers are high. Are we gonna make it? Is there a clause if we don't get those sizes? Fifteen full-time staff are also mentioned in the contract during the operation, so we have an idea about the operating costs of ELIDEEC, which, unfortunately, is not mentioned in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. The action taken by the ELIDEEC, however, has already begun. On Friday, October 14, GET made a pre-publishment of an ELIDEK notice dated 1st, 2016, for scholarships, for candidate doctors. Some comments on this pre-publishment of a notice: in our view, evaluation criteria require review, as stated in the pre-publishment. Rating calibration should be higher. For example, one cannot get the same molecules as someone who has a degree degree of 8.5.20 molecules. Also, one with four years of study and a degree degree grade of 5, who has obtained a one-year postgraduate degree, will have the same molecules as someone with five years of study and a degree degree of 9.5. Thirty molecules both. Some of the time has to be taken into account, therefore, so that those who have more years of study, as in polytechnics, in medical schools, are not disadvantaged. Also, all postgraduates will count with 20 molecules? What about the one-year and two-year-olds and the subject matter of the doctoral thesis and the unrelated? Criterion A2, which refers to the pre-publishment, is also very subjective. He wants an objectiveization. In addition to the profile of the candidate, our view is that the content of the thesis should also be considered and evaluated. Also, not all posts are the same. They should also be differentiated in the scores and in general we should objectively aim as much as possible to avoid the shadows of any favor to someone. I also read a week ago, on Wednesday, October 12, if I am not deceived, in the newspaper of the Government, in 'AGEY', namely, a report on the strengthening of fifteen thousand young scientists, by a joint interview by Mrs Anagnastopoulou and Mr Haritsis the day before, i.e. 11 October. For ELIDEK, it did not say a word or rather, "AUGY" said it did not refer to ELIDEK because it did not refer to higher education. However, the ELIKE is also concerned with higher education, and this is also demonstrated by the notices on the candidate doctorates. Moreover, the pre-publishment of the notice, which I mentioned above for scholarships to candidate doctors, is identical to programmes announced by Ms. Anagnostopoulos and Mr. Haritsis. Will there be any common design, a coordination, so that there are no overlaps? Do the relevant ministers speak to each other? Why was the ELIKE not mentioned in this interview, therefore, if it serves similar purposes? I will speak tomorrow in the debate on the articles and amendments. However, let me say something about the Poppa amendment, which came on Friday night and Friday midnight, and if it hadn't been withdrawn, it would also smash this bill into the air. It was an amendment which, among the other unacceptable, was even more worthy of the National Broadcasting Council, a few hours before its attempts to establish it. Let me say that such movements on the part of the government eliminate all good intentions to consent to things that we are actually converging, such as a bill on research, such as the draft law on the ELIFE. Unless Mr. Papas is rushing to give the money from the licenses for the rescheduling of Brain Drain, as he promised in a statement on twitter, where he says: "By the money from television permits, the programme of support for young doctors begins to convert Brain Drain into Brain Gain." So ask him, Minister, if there is such an attitude, to increase even more the sums that go to candidate doctors. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Minister, should you be afraid of the upcoming reshaping of your position? There are suitors. With such parliamentary practices as Mr Phile a month ago, with the legislative improvement for the EDPS, which now withdraws with the amendment he brings, of course, and you are not the word of the Constitution. Especially in parliamentary matters, you are probably every unorthodox. In conclusion, this bill is in the right direction and I must say that it has positively affected us the fact that the Deputy Minister has accepted many of our proposals. But the devil is hiding in application. That is why we will monitor closely to fulfil its purpose and support young scientists and research teams, depending on their value and not on their acquaintance. We are therefore in a positive position at the outset and will be extremely positive in its implementation. Tomorrow, we will talk about the amendments and articles where I will also ask Mr Philly if, together with the legal improvement for the EDPS, he will get back the libel issued by his ministry, referring to me, because I have reacted to that provision, calling me a ignorant, mushy underminer, which distorts the truth. Eventually, before you flee, you speak, three... with the withdrawal, it seemed who the ignorant one is and who is distorting the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and five educational sessions from the General Lyceum of Laconia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks. I am referring to the entire title, because - as has rightly been pointed out to us in the Bureau, to say it - to blind people or to deaf people who are being watched, so that they can understand who is speaking. It was a good point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. About three thousand, mostly young children, many of them with very good studies, have left our country and are active abroad because there was no prospect. At least until the 2015 elections, that was the number. She's probably increased already. On the other hand, we see very often young children, students, students yet, really being first worldwide. Recently, I saw three students who took the silver medal or such discrimination. Really, it's a surprise to tell you why these kids don't have a perspective. I have the opinion that this institution has come too late. Of course, we must admit that it complements in some way the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, which manages EDF funds. But I think it should have been done for years already. He's coming late. Some - their right - see it with suspicion. It's what we say they see half empty the glass. They think some people will be appointed, we'll make it easier for some or something. I'm not saying there's no danger of bureaucracy. She's always pregnant. We will be inferior to the circumstances, if we look at this bill in this way, that is to say, making it easier for some friends and not to bother at all. Mercy! Of course it's something that's looking forward. It complements, I would say, another bill, which is also timely - and we will be dealing with about 16.00 in the afternoon - relating to the social economy. It's another big cut. I'm saying all this, why does someone say "Come on, what happened? There will be another research and innovation institution. And what happened?’ You got it! I would like to remind you of a country which was a province of the Soviet Republics twenty-five years ago, Estonia. This country, thanks to research and innovation, has taken off the ground over the past twenty-five years. VAT in this country cannot escape tax. It's done electronically. In the same country, you don't need thirty-three signatures and five to six months to set up a company. It only takes eighteen minutes. I bring her as an example. I am not referring to Germany, France, Great Britain, the United States. It's countries with a long tradition. This is a country that started twenty-five years ago. In this country, the e-signature, which relieves unbelievable bureaucracy, is because of research and innovation and, indeed, from very young children. I like to speak with examples and not in general and without vagueness. I think anyone can hear us. In the same country, court cases do not delay four and five years, nor do you see them carrying in rooms unbelievable bags, files, envelopes, unbelievable things that you will now see in IKA or CSAY, where I own or I don't know where. It's a terrible thing, but it's all gone, there's electronic invoices. What we are now trying to do, electronic money, so that we do not have tax evasion, electronic voting, all that is research, technology. It is up to us all to embrace this proposal positively. I'm telling you, I think he's late. And we mustn't be miserable anymore. I'm not saying, we should have an opposition. But here, it doesn't fit. We all have to benefit too much. To give you an understanding, I will say something: in the United States, which is a developed country, every ministry has posted exactly what it will do and who is responsible for it. In other words, the citizen can go and check and check the Ministry, which was committed to doing specific things, if he eventually did it in the schedule. Such a development! I therefore believe that we need to put the emphasis on research and innovation. She's the one who promotes our best minds. We need them. Of course, I do not hide that the word 'partnership' will take time to go away - I know - but it must be over at some point. The party armies and partitioning, in general, have been very costly in this country. I'm talking as a person and I believe it right now. And science comes, which makes no distinction, and helps to get through this and to end it definitively. I don't want to say any more. If I understood correctly, I think that, despite all their objections, and the rest of the parties are positive, they must be positive in this bill. We will see the differences, and when we speak in writing, we will see it in detail if we can actually make improvements. I, with respect, listen to everyone, and I think there was a good intention - that is my sense - with some exceptions. I would like you to allow me to return to news. I can't resist. I heard PASOK's spokesman say he feels proud and more. Right to be proud of one difference, though. Recently, about ten days ago, the prosecutor refers the Treasury of this party for 160 million. The pride is good, it's good to be proud of what you are, but you have to prove it in practice too. One hundred and sixty million loan and fiercely, no matter how much they hold the grant, you'll pay off in four or five years. And yesterday or yesterday, I think, there was a post in a newspaper that, for the same reason, New Democracy was referred back to 140 million. Other pride!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u40	Inaccurate as far as PASOK is concerned, Mr President. As it is kept in practice, I have to stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u41	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u42	Inaccurate in both PASOK and the New Democracy. Another civil action brought by Piraeus Bank and another referral to the Public Prosecutor. And PASOK is not quoted for its loan, it is referred for 15 million, which the control of PASOK itself raised it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u43	Let me correct you, Mr President. This is for fraud, for two specific stories of the cashier, and the other is for infidelity for 160 million. Let me correct you. For the New Democracy, I agree with what you said, it is not a reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u44	Be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u45	I'm very careful. A bank wants to get her money back. This is a reality that should land us. It's not bad to do our self-criticism. To be critical, to be harshly criticised in this House, with one difference: it has to be self-criticism at one time. It's not without them, if we really want to be trustworthy. I don't have to say any more. I want to believe that this bill will be treated positively by all the parties in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u46	And I, Mr. Papachristopoulos, for the brief. We arrive at the last special speaker, Mr Ioannis Saridis, and then I will give the floor immediately to defend the amendment, as I said at the outset, to Mr Vitsa. For a few minutes, the Minister will take the floor and we will enter the circle of parliamentary representatives. As far as I can see, we are going well, so some colleagues will have time to talk about the bill as a whole. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are three truths about the bill under discussion, which must be said in the Chamber. Firstly, the need that brought it before us is nothing more than the irresponsible bleeding of the country into high-level scientific staff, the so-called Brain Drain. Secondly, the solution we are trying to give is based on loan funds, which the Greek people will naturally pay back. Thirdly, we are creating a new body, namely the ELIDEEC, not to say exclusively, to manage the 240 million in three years' time. From the European Investment Bank of 180 million and 60 million from the Public Expenditure Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being given loan to find a solution to Brain Drain and what we are discussing here today is who will manage them. What we do not talk about while we should have discussed it is the fact that we have not yet found a sustainable economic solution for what will happen after three years. How, in other words, will the ELIDEK continue to operate? With a new loan? Didn't we learn as Greeks that when you get a loan, you have to keep in mind and a reasonable way, a viable plan, to pay it back? Nowhere in the bill there is no answer to the simple question 'how and when to repay it'. This bill deals with who and how the loan, 180 million, will be divided. This is where the Qualified Opposition disagrees, to whom the money will be distributed. I, at least, heard no more argument. Is it right to vote against a bill for such a reason? I think it is very important that at some points we were able to reach agreement on all the parties to the opposition, including the New Democracy, with the position of Mr Fortsakis at second reading of the draft law and we recognised the efforts of Minister Fotakis, who actually accepted most of the proposals made by the institutions and parties of the Minority, moving forward to twenty and more necessary improvements, recognising their importance. What we are proposing, on the one hand, in order to ensure the necessary viability of ELIDEC and, on the other, because we recognise the risk that today's bill will collapse three years after its adoption, is the immediate legislative framework for interconnecting the results of research and innovation, with the market and the productive sector, with the real economy, that is to say. The only way, in order to be able to repay the loans and, at the same time, to allow research and innovation to give their multiplier power to the national effort for the recovery of the Greek economy, is to ensure that the innovative results of the research are exploited. Unfortunately, the bill under discussion does not respond to the results of our scientists' efforts. Who's gonna make money out of their ideas? I don't think it inspires our doctors' confidence in today's bill. There's a lot of gaps. Very negative is the fact that, with a careful study of what we are discussing today, we are heading to the safe conclusion that under no circumstances are we restricting bureaucracy and not removing the famous bureaucratic tangles around funding research and innovation. There are no provisions which facilitate young scientists, but there are, on the contrary, many provisions which guarantee complexity in decision-making procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the satisfactory adoption by the Minister of Ministers of many of the proposals put forward in the relevant committee by representatives of the bodies and Members of the minor opposition, it is true that there is still a great deal of room for improvement and, fortunately, there is also time to do so, as we finally discuss a bill in two plenary sessions. So we choose the right thing and follow the right legislation as set out in the Constitution, offer a service to democracy and defend the public interest as we are obliged to do, which we have not done in too many bills, in dozens of bills, in this Chamber. I will make a few comments today in order to urge the Minister to make some changes. I note, therefore, that the articles of the bill have not been heard by some of the points made by my fellow Member, Mrs Megalo-Economist. More specifically, I would like to hear how you think, Minister, that the intention of the organized state to support academic research is made clear in relation to research that seeks practical applications. Taking into account the provisions of Article 2 and, in particular, those set out in paragraph 2a above, on a substantial balance between the main beneficiaries and the trade unions, I take the view that we do not support academics in practical terms. Perhaps this should be one of the key issues, if not of this bill, then on the necessary next bill in this regard immediately. Another point in which we deserve to insist and deserve your attention, Mr Minister, is the proposal that we have tabled in respect of the provisions of Article 4(6). We must add, in other words, the possibility of an additional emergency management control per year, of course by a decision of the Minister. The supervisory role of the Minister is important and we should, in our view, insist on this, be strengthened by adding a specific provision for the possibility of additional exceptional management control, in addition to the regularity provided for in Article 4. But we recall - and we hold it as an important point - that this supervisory role is limited by the Minister, then by the end of the next quarter, during which the Minister will enjoy executive powers. We understand the need for this transitional period because of strict timetables. We will, however, monitor every day how the Minister's duties are to be exercised by 31 January. Our proposals for the contents of Article 5 are also of equal importance. On the one hand, we argued about the mandatory and not potential public suspension of objections, paragraph 4, and on the other hand, we talked about the armouring through the process of drawing up the institution of assessors, paragraph 6. Both these proposals serve to increase transparency and you should look at them more carefully. It is also necessary to explain to us the exact reason, as we have requested, of the Advisory Committee referred to in Article 8. In closing my position, I will try to substantiate the correctness of our choice to vote in favour of today's bill and the establishment of the new body, the EIIG. They give us money from the European Investment Bank, even loan, to manage them on our own, in such a way that the university community agrees and in order to strengthen research and innovation. In getting this loan, the New Democracy does not disagree either. We, on the contrary, continue to object to taking loans without all knowing and not agreeing on how to repay them. Soon you have to bring us something that tells us and where we will find to pay the loan and how the results of the money managed by the EIADEC will add points to GDP. For us, the way is one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u48	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u49	Different approach, Mrs. Anthony. The interconnection of the research and its results with the market and the productive economy. That's the point. To add with our work, with our powers, units in GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u50	I agree. That's what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u51	We must stop the Brain drain, stop the bleeding of Greeks towards the outside. Our attempt to find equivalent is continued in every draft law, in every amendment, in every question we ask you in the context of parliamentary control. Today we are all doing together, the ones we are voting on this bill, half a step forward. You will have taken 10 steps back if you do not complete it soon with the missing data to be completed. The articles will be placed in the plenary tomorrow. In response to Mr Constantopoulos, the respected colleague and special speaker of the Democratic Association, who, in an attempt to hide PASOK's positive vote in today's bill, has lost his time in this House, I would like to remind him - because he forgets it - that the Centron Union has brought it into this House by its vote and because it is consistent with its principles. Today, for the ELIDEEC, the Democratic Reconciliation voted 'yes', while for the strengthening of democracy with the mere proportional representation the Democratic Reconciliation had voted 'no'. So, Mr. Reverent Boys of the Democratic Partnership, are you proud? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Constantopoulos, no talk! In your dentistry, speak and answer. Now answer the simple analogy! Mr Vitsa, you have the floor for five minutes with one tolerance for the amendment and then the Minister will talk. Mrs Vaki informed me that she will not speak today as a parliamentary representative. It'll take the floor tomorrow. I want it to be included in the Minutes today, because under the Rules of Procedure tomorrow, which are on the articles and amendments, you all have eight minutes, but after we save fifteen minutes today, and two colleagues will speak out of the Members who are registered, let me make a slight arbitrage, to say that he will speak 15 minutes tomorrow for reasons of equality. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you both for making it easier for you and this House. We are tabling an amendment with a general number of 701 and a special 84. The amendment in writing states that ‘in paragraph 5 of Article 26 of L.4258/2014, as applicable, a second subparagraph is added as follows: ‘This amount is allowed up to EUR 15 million for the completion of the remaining tasks and tests necessary for the certification and operational integration of submarines’. I must say that this amendment has been ready for some time, but unfortunately, given other procedures, we have not been given the opportunity to bring it to Parliament. As you can see, and as most of you may know, Article 26 of Law 4258/2014 was the article that entrusted the Hellenic Navy with completing the necessary tasks and tests for the four submarines, which were - and are - in the Greek shipyards, then Scaramaga, now HSY. For the three submarines - 'Pine', 'Ocean' and 'Matroso' - the tests have been completed. For the fourth submarine, Katsonis is in progress the stage of the carrying out of acceptance tests in good order, the systems of the vessel, etc. And the results are very good. They started in June, at the end of June, testing at sea, and of course, these tests, as they know, last for about eight months. These tests shall be carried out by the staff of the Hellenic Navy with the assistance of the workers at the Scaramaga shipyards. Now, in order not to eat for no reason, and I mention the programme the previous one, which was in the same article and was worth EUR 75.5 million, is exhausted at the end of October and in order to complete all this process, the technical features, which have no point in saying them - that is, the House is not the technical workshop - need another EUR 15 million, or about EUR 3 million will go to payroll and insurance, EUR 300,000 to operating costs and EUR 700,000 to technical support. For 2017 on payroll will go EUR 7.5 million - always talking about wages for workers at the Scaramaga shipyards, nothing else goes - at EUR 600,000 operational costs and operational and technical support EUR 2.900,000, since the issue of the materials for the completion of the submarines is over, all the materials have been taken away. In other words, it's a construction project and a sub-structural project. With this provision we intend to complete the operations and tests on the four submarines so that they can be attributed to the fleet as soon as possible for full operational operation. You know that some of these submarines have already taken part in the Parthenon of 2016. We believe that these work needs to be carried out within the Scaramaga Shipyards, and so our proposal is the amendment that we are tabling, legislatively, to resolve this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u55	Before the Minister leaves, is there any party - not a position - a precise question? Because tomorrow will not come, what is to be resolved, resolved today. I do not see any of my fellow Members having a question. Good, Minister. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Fotakis, you have the floor for twenty minutes, to answer the others, beyond the defense. Please, if the Secretary of Government listens to us, because for two and a half hours we are waiting for a monograph on legislative improvements, to send them over, because he has to testify before parliamentarians speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I note that the three legislative improvements are ready. I would like to point out that Mrs Antoniou is right indeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u57	One of your colleagues to testify to them in the Minutes to distribute them, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u58	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u59	Indeed, there have been many legalists. This is a negative view of the Civic Opposition. We see that very positively, because for a new project, for an undertaking such as this, the establishment of the institution for which I am going to say a few words, which has been made a lot of interventions from different sides of this House and indeed taken into account in the context of consensus. And this is reflected in the twenty-four legislatures that have been submitted. There have also been many comments on specific issues. Some of these I'm going to hurt in my presentation. For particular details, with regard to specific articles, we will talk tomorrow. What I wanted to say, however, is that there are also some minor inaccuracies, which I perhaps give incorrect information from the various consultants used by the Members. For example, there are three new bodies financing the research. These three entities are not new, but were already in existence and are entities which manage resources of the NRP. It is also the Secretariat-General and the EEAS - EBRD - and the other one mentioned by Mrs Antoniou and others. As far as the ESDP is concerned, a previous question by Mrs Antonio has already been answered. There will be a detailed answer on both the previous NRP and the absorptions made, but also on the so-called delays in this NRP at tomorrow's meeting. To begin with, I would like to refer to something very positive, which is about to be presented next Wednesday and which I already have, as regards the R&D intensity index in the country in 2015. This indicator grew significantly. It's up to 0.96% of GDP. Expenditure on research and development amounted to 0.96% of GDP. They approached 1% with a significant change of 0.17% from 2011. This is very important. This information comes from the National Documentation Centre. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the bill is concerned, which we are calling on to vote on, what is its objective? It is support, upgrade and enhance human resources and quality research in the country. We repeat this all the time. It is another step towards dealing with the great fleeing, the great exit of scientists abroad, the famous Brain Drain - I said one step, I did not say the full package, it is not possible - and it is also possible to replace it with a balanced mobility of scientists, what we call Brain Circulation. All of this is done in conditions of deep crisis in conditions of unemployment, under conditions of austerity. These conditions require immediate action to be taken on urgent terms. We can't wait. And that's what we do. How is this objective achieved? This objective is first achieved by creating job opportunities and jobs for young researchers with decent working conditions. I also stress this in environments that are attractive to the implementation of the research project. It is not only enough - we have also said so in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media - to have jobs. You must also have the right environment that inspires, attracts the scientist to do his job, that's what goes forward, and I would say that with the overall career prospects in the private and public sectors for the future so that scientists with high skills remain or return to the country. We have these challenges ahead of us. These challenges come to be answered first by the government with this bill. And here it must be made clear that our approach has two legs. Unfortunately, the focus is only on the first and not the second. The first part, therefore, is the financing provided by the signing of the loan contract between the Greek State and the European Investment Bank for the support of human resources and research carried out at Greek universities, TEIs and research centres, without limitations and strangles. Additional resources for those in the regular budget and those from the NRP totalling EUR 240 million will be allocated for the remaining three years for this purpose, and we estimate that more than four thousand scientists will benefit during this period. This is nothing but a concrete and clear choice and commitment of the Greek Government. It's neither the bank's provision nor anything else. It is a specific political choice. As far as follow-up is concerned, there is provision why the question was raised: What will happen after three years? Obviously, we are concerned about this and there is provision for the continuation of this programme in the same framework or with own resources, depending on the degree of recovery of the economy. Here I would like to say that all the effort being made is to get the country on the so-called markets, so that it can borrow on acceptable terms. The conditions under which borrowing is being done here are excellent, much better than market conditions. What I just wanted to say, because it has been mentioned that we hide data on them, is that there is no concealment of the terms. Those who raise such issues should know that the specific borrowing conditions made by the Public Debt Management Agency happen when the disbursements are made. What I wanted to say to you is this and characteristic: we have here a 15-year-old loan of grace of five years, which means that five years only the interest rate is paid, and as far as the first disbursement is concerned, this advance payment that has been made, to give you less than 200,000 euros will pay the Greek State as the fulfilment of the interest rates for the next five years for the amount that is coming and will be supported at the moment by eighteen million new doctors and candidates. One can do the calculation and figure out what we're saying. They're really excellent terms, much better than any other loan term. Now, what I also wanted to stress, the important thing for us, is that this lending was done for intangible values, it was done to support people, for scholarships, for research projects. It wasn't for roads or bridges. And that really can be seen as a success of the government. The undeniable thing is, however, that the knowledge and innovation produced by scientific research is the valuable fuel for any development effort today by creating a strong knowledge-intensive economy. Many have mentioned this and I fully agree with it. What I would like to add here is that, for us, this loan is not an expense, but an investment in the most important capital that the country has and that is the people. We invest in her people. We have to understand that. It's an important investment, and that's what the government did. In the same context, it was announced and approved the opening of a thousand new ICPs for universities and hundreds of researchers' posts for research centres, which did not exist both in research centres and universities over the entire period. For many years there have been no positions. It's done, too. And not just. In the previous research law, significant improvements were made to the conditions for flexible employment for researchers, which, if we have time at some occasion, perhaps tomorrow, we will see what has been done with the famous block and how the block is effectively eliminated with the possibility of having jobs. This was done in the previous law and was not particularly noted. This first financial section is linked to a second that has an institutional character and is very important: the establishment of the ELIDEK, the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation. ELIDEK is a new institution with features that are a deep reformist intersection in the field of research in Greece. Through this foundation the research community itself from below forms the landscape for basic research, the research linked to scientific curiosity. This type of research is necessary for qualitative, innovative applications with potential added scientific, economic and social value. As some comments have been heard about the possibility of private companies participating in the programme as unions, I would like to say that trade unions mean that if a research team, at a university in its programme, wants to have a business as a partner for alpha or beta, it can do so. That's the trade unions. But the basis is basic research and therefore what is linked to what we call scientific curiosity. So the ELIDEK will have various roles. Firstly, it will select, evaluate and finance new research and research programmes, primarily with a view to pursuing scientific quality and excellence, as we know and pursue it, not the other, which many people call for. This will be done in terms of consistency, continuity and systematicity. It is important that researchers know when the notices are made. It's not the accident, as it was so far. The choices it will make are expected to regenerate, inspire and show scientific quality enclosures and at the same time contribute to the cultivation - and this is very important - of a healthy scientific atmosphere and culture. This research culture is a very important and necessary element for the success of the project. In this context, the specialisation and timely view of actions in new, emerging scientific areas where the country can take the lead once again will fall within the mandate of the EIIG. But there is something else to which the contribution of the ELIDEEC will also be important. It is the possibility of creating a truly coherent, complete and integrated national research strategy. To date, the research strategy was only defined by the NSRP's choices, since the NSRP was the only financial source, namely the strategy of smart specialisation, which is applied to the current NSRP and imposed restrictions on the funding made in the form of sectarianism. Indeed, it is very important that the ESDP contribution and with respectable amounts, amounting to 1.2 billion. On the other hand, there are limitations and deficits. For example, today's ESDP does not fund or finance very limited social and humanitarian sciences, which will not apply to the EMI. And we know the great importance of a country like Greece for social and humanitarian sciences and the great importance of the invisible resources produced and produced by them. So if we are talking about the national research strategy, the ESRB, as has been said, it will really be complete if the ESRB combines what the EMI will do. Because the ELICE does not have the limitations of the ESRB. The resources for the three years are less, but they do not have the limitations, and that is very important. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] It is therefore clear from the above that the form and objectives of the EMI are serious institutional interventions and are far from simple interpretations or misinterpretations, which relate to a mere, intermediate management of research funds. That's completely wrong. Of course the ELIDEK has a distinctive role from that of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, from which no competence is removed. The Secretariat-General for Research and Technology continues to supervise research bodies, to have the responsibility of international organisations, to have the responsibility of transnational relations and, of course, to have the responsibility of managing the resources of the NRP, which are more than 1 billion and are very important. On the contrary, what we are trying to do through this bill is the right simulation between the General Secretariat of Research and Technology and ELICE, so that we can obtain the best result at the minimum cost and use the total resources available. As far as - to say this too - the operating costs of the EMI, including payroll, are concerned, this is not expected to exceed 2.5% of the total amount. And there is another point to be made here. ELIDEK focuses on supporting scientific potential and research in the academic and research area, while the ESRB has a large part of what we call market needs. That is why the two may come together when we want to talk about a national research and technology strategy. I would like to say another thing, however, because it has been mentioned by many speakers that there is no next stage, that of making use of the results of the investigation, despite the fact that I have often given an explanation in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. What is happening is that the EMIEC is the first necessary link in the growth chain, which is based on the use of knowledge and is derived from research. As I said in committee, there is a next phase, which will address the development of the research product, the emergence of healthy innovative entrepreneurship, in particular the entrepreneurship at an early stage. This phase concerns both tabs and more general knowledge-intensive firms. To this end, a new special fund consisting of public and private resources has been designed - I do not want to expand here - and focuses on the provision of sowing capital and participation in such businesses. This new initiative, which is part of the government's overall development plan, will soon be announced and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Here, too, I should like to refer to something I mentioned before. In 2008-2015 more than 6 billion was allocated for research and technological development in the country as a whole. The question is what significant success has been, what has these resources achieved. A lot of money has been made available for this, but I think nothing stands out. And I am not saying this with a dose of criticism, because I think that the intentions may have been good, but with a feeling that things are not done in the way they were done, they are not done with a dry, with a sound attempt to trade in knowledge and transform researchers into entrepreneurs, because then we have bad entrepreneurs and bad products. It is obvious that the ELIDEEC creates a long-standing institution, which is a deep reform in the field of research and will act as a catalyst. The word catalyst is borrowed from natural sciences and means something that is very small, but it can result in a great deal of resonance for future developments. Aspiration is, in fact, to once become the corresponding MSF in America or the DFG in Germany. It is an institution expected from the country's research community, which will help to make use of the exceptional scientific potential that exists both on the national and on the diaspora. In conclusion, however, I can only comment on an interesting phenomenon which has been observed in committee and which is mainly about the attitude of the Vice-President. Right from the outset, before any debate took place, its opposition should have expressed its unequivocally negative attitude to the perpetual condemnation of all the effort. Now somehow this has changed, 'good is' - it says - 'the agreement, but it is not the same for the institution'. I would like to ask all the sides of the opposition, which have taken such a stand, this: Do they prefer the cancellation of the project to support four thousand young scientists, who will be the directly beneficiaries, but do not put anything in the position of what is being proposed? What do they have to propose, beyond the great thing that existed to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Niki Kerameos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could only begin today's position with the amendment tabled late on Friday evening in this bill, which, at the expense of the general outcry of opposition and society, was announced that it would only be withdrawn a few hours later and finally withdrawn today. What did this amendment anticipate? It provided that the channels which did not obtain a licence under the competition - fiasco for television licences organized by the government would be closed within five days. In order to speak very simply, neither too much nor too much did the amendment say that it would throw black on all channels, except on the four that have been licensed. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you have artificially created the deadlock for not forming the PPE, since you have chosen to end the terms of the PSE members, while there is still no consensus on their replacement, while you call for consensus and, above all, for the Council of State to decide on the constitutionality of the law on the basis of which the PSE powers were transferred to the Minister of State and on the basis of which the tender was conducted. In the middle, then, of all these things, what are you doing? Introduce surprising amendments which - listen, listen! - it continues to transfer powers provided for in the Constitution that it belongs to the PSE, the Minister of State. The aim of the amendment was quite clear: to seal the outcome of the competition, thereby extorting the political forces of the country, but also the supreme court, the Council of State, by bringing it to fruition. But you have had to retreat and withdraw - at least for the moment - this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be quite clear: the New Democracy is communicating to all tons and for the most part that it will consent to the formation of the PSE by figures of prestige, when and only when all the responsibilities are returned to the Constitutional Authority, the National Broadcasting Council, when, in short, the Poppa Law - which has removed responsibilities laid down by the EPP Constitution to transfer them to the same - but also any other law or amendment that comes again from the PSE to the Minister, are abolished. When these transfers of competence are abolished, then the New Democracy with all goodwill will consent to the creation of the PSE. In short, what do we say? We don't want the PSE to be puppet, we don't want the PSE to be an empty shell. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, in the ruling majority, will not consent to the institutional diversion that you methodically and specifically aim to attempt. I now come to the draft law we are discussing today. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a special legal person to fund research programmes and grant grants could indeed be good news and could be a broad consensus. But it's not. And it is not good news for a number of reasons that ultimately annul the good purpose that the political leadership invokes in the explanatory statement. And I'll be very specific. First reason: why the institution in question is fully unregulated. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, one of you knows - and I challenge you to answer me - how much this institution will cost, what will it cost the Greek taxpayer? According to the General Accounting Report, the State budget shall be charged with the costs of operating and fulfilling the purpose of that institution. In particular, the President of the Foundation, the members of the General Assembly, the Director and the two Deputy Directors, the members of the Advisory Committee, the members of the Objections Committee and the members of the Committee of Experts will be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u62	They're unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u63	It's wrong. There aren't any...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u64	You'll answer. Don't exhale. However, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State does not mention a single amount in relation to these costs. What's he saying? It says that expenditure will be determined in the future when the institution's rules of procedure are completed and the regulatory acts are adopted. I would refer you to the State General Accounting Report to see it for yourself. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you are creating an institution with a confessed noble purpose, but without any cost at all. You who vote for this bill will vote for the creation of a white cheque institution. Secondly, for which, unfortunately, the creation of this institution is not good news, it is this: the structure and operation of the institution present the usual bureaucratic tangles and ailments of the public sector, a heavy administrative structure, a bureaucratic mechanism with almost identical responsibilities to those of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem of research in Greece is not who shares the money. The main problem is what it shares, namely the timely low amount of funding in relation to the real needs of the research, and how and when it shares it, namely the fragmented nature of funding, the lack of continuity, the inability to consistently finance programmes. Thirdly, because the creation of this institution does not meet the expectations: while you are invoking an independent and independent institution, in fact, in the ordinary practice of the government, you are over-concentrating powers and powers on the face of a minister. Two simple examples I shall mention. Where and how will the Minister decide - and I ask you for your reply, Minister - on the allocation of funds by category of action by category of action? In other words, to be clear, the Minister will decide how much money they will go to scholarships, how much money they will go to research programmes and how much money they will go to equipment. Why would the Minister decide that? Where and where? Another example. Why should the Minister appoint the auditors who will control the legality of the financial management of the institution? Fourthly, which does not meet the expectations of this institution, is this: if you were interested in research and funding, you would have tried a little more to absorb funds from the ESRB programmes. Your performance there proves that your heat for research is rather pretext. You have only announced two actions, a total of EUR 104 million, without having absorbed a single euro. Moreover, according to data from the Directorate-General for Research and Technology, EUR 1.2 billion remaining from the previous ESRB package is at risk of not being used. And this, despite the fact that research funds are now so much demand. Furthermore, this draft law does not cure two more serious problems of research: the first problem is lack of programming. It is important for the research community that there are fixed dates for the call for tenders, for research projects. Not irregularly, not unscheduledly. In short, specific annual deadlines for the submission of proposals for some basic forms of projects have now been set. The second problem, which could be tackled by your draft law and yet does not do so, is the opacity of the results of research programmes. I'll say it very simply. You're getting a funding. What results did you get from funding? Did you post or just waste the money you took for research? All of these elements, as well as the list of evaluators, should be publicly posted. Minister, during the preparation of the draft law in the relevant committees, you said attributes that the institution to be set up aims to provide the basis for long-term institutional intervention. And you continued by saying that the legislation aims to curb Brain Drain from Greece. It is true - and I will agree - that Brain Drain is an extremely great wound to our country. According to a study by the European University Institute, 88% of those who left the country have at least one university degree, more than 60% has a postgraduate degree and 11% has a PhD degree. The study also reports that 79% of those who left the crisis had a job, but felt that there was no future in the country or that they had no professional opportunities. And the Brain Drain really deprives our country of the opportunity to produce a high-value product. I fear, however, that Brain Drain will not be restrained by this draft law. The solution is not in the creation of another institution with overlapping powers from existing structures, with a non-functional management system, with over-concentration of powers on the face of a minister, without the necessary powers for the functioning of democracy, so-called checks and balances. Ladies and gentlemen, Brain Drain can be reversed under three basic conditions: First, if the "business" really is a central pillar of development for the country. Secondly, if integrity, transparency and accountability in terms of programme wishes become sine qua non conditions for the functioning of the Public Administration. Thirdly, if governments turn towards a colonised model of governance, a model that is more suited to market and citizens' needs and less to the needs of party clienteles. And unfortunately, the government's course and choices for twenty months have shown that, with this civilian staff at the wheel of the country, none of the conditions for curbing Brain drain cannot be guaranteed, neither entrepreneurship nor merit with transparency and accountability nor the custodial model of governance. On the occasion of the reference to the need for a colonised governance model, I would like to close with a brief comment - and perhaps say more - on the amendment to the OTA cleanliness services contracts tomorrow. By way of derogation from any provision in force, the Government has chosen to automatically extend contracts in the field of cleaning. And one will say: "Is that so bad? Some people still have work to do." Of course it is desirable to have as many of our fellow citizens as possible. However, this must be done within the framework laid down by the law. And above all, this must be done without creating more distortions than it is trying to cure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A bit of your tolerance. However, the first of these contracts is extended without such a request from the municipalities. In other words, the municipalities have not made a request to meet the specific needs, either because they consider that they have other needs that are more urgent to meet, either because they want contracts of another kind, or because there are no funds available. In this way, this amendment deprives the municipalities of their basic status, self-employed, namely that they decide on their needs. Secondly, it creates a sui generis hostage status for those contractors who see their contracts continuing to be extended and it is their conviction that as workers for two or three consecutive eight months, they will then be able to simulate. Thirdly, it equates the recruitment procedures of permanent and temporary staff, indifferent to the laws, characteristics and criteria set by the AACC. Fourthly, it is unfair for all those potential workers who could take part in another fixed-term competition and have a job option too. And fifthly - and I am closing down - it unfortunately lacks programming and prior investigation of needs. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that a few months ago you came here to tell us to extend the contract until the end of 2016. Now you come and tell us to prolong the contracts by the end of 2017. Is there any programming for something you're doing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u67	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute, for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u68	Some clarifications I would like to make. First of all, as far as the institution's account is concerned, it refers to the loan contract as not exceeding 3.3%. I, too, told you that under the rules of procedure, it will not exceed the cost of the institution of 2.5% of the total amount allocated. As far as the issue of the decision to split is concerned, the same mistake is again made. Ma'am, I understand. You weren't in the Morphics Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u69	I've read the Minutes. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u70	What he says in - there is an amendment to that - is that, on a proposal from the Scientific Council, the Minister makes the decision. When we say 'proposal', it means that it is compulsory for the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u71	Does it say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u72	He says it in. I think Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Mavrotas had referred to this issue. There is such an amendment. That's why I'm telling you there might be an information issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u73	He doesn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u74	However, all the recruitments which are to be undertaken by the Minister - because the'ministerial' is a follow-up - will be carried out by 31 January, when the foundation must exist. Basically, the whole background will be built to work after self-power. All recruitments and all of this will be based on the rules of the AACC. As far as the compensation is concerned, there is still an amendment. There is no compensation to members of the general meeting. This is completely lifted. Being a member of the general assembly is a matter of honor, so there is no compensation. From the institution from which it comes, perhaps some trips or anything like that will be covered. Something that you have rightly put - and I mentioned it - is the systematicity of the notices. Indeed, we will know when the notices are made - that is a matter for the Council. We do not want to replace it - and with what priority. On the subject of Brain Drain, what can I say? Perhaps there is the impression that life began a year and a half ago or two years ago with SYRIZA. Of course, that's not a mistake. But look, there's a previous life. On the basis of data from Eurostat and Bloomberg in the five years 2009-2014, academics and researchers left abroad in comparison with previous five years were tenfold. We also have a basis for comparison. How did that happen? Wasn't there entrepreneurship then? Wasn't there all this connection to production policy, as it says? What we are saying is that the approach was made in a completely wrong way, in a way of trade that effectively encroached on the country's potential. We, at the moment, with the ELIDEK and other legislative and institutional interventions that we are doing, are changing that. We can also discuss other issues. The NSRF issues - we have the State Secretary in charge here - I will deal with them in detail tomorrow and with the uptakes that have taken place. Just to mention now that 88% of the amount available for research and technology from the previous NRP has been assigned at the moment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u75	How much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u76	It's 67%, but that's what's on the OPS. However, 88% of expenditure has been spent. But let us not do this because it is about making impressions. With regard to the new ESDP and so-called delays...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u77	Finish, Minister, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u78	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm going to give a concrete answer. I just wanted to make one comment. We're not talking about rope in the hanger's house. There were delays...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u79	Minister, shouldn't you say that in your speech? Mr President, excuse me, is this a procedure now? Isn't the Minister going to talk next? It cannot give every speaker real answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u80	It's just like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u81	I said the NSAs will report them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u82	Tomorrow, exactly. It's just that there's been a dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u84	Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification because I have here the final draft law, as it emerged from the committee. I therefore read in Article 5.1: 'The breakdown by category of action of the institution's resources, such as scholarships, research programmes, equipment and the scientific field, is specified every year on a proposal from the Scientific Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u87	If this proposal is binding...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u88	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u89	No, Minister. Legally, what it says is that the Scientific Council will make you a proposal and you will decide whether or not to accept it. If the proposal is to be binding, put it explicitly within the article of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u90	Write it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u91	If it has changed, I would be happy to see the new wording. However, the wording that I have made since the completion of the work of the committee states 'a simple proposal'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u92	I would point out - because it is very important - that there was first the word 'introduction', which is not binding. After all, there are many lawyers in this House who can say so. When we say the word 'proposal', it is binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u93	It's not binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u94	Make sure it's binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u95	Let's put it that's binding. If you're in trouble, let's put it on. But there's no one...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u96	Put it on. I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u97	What the lawyers told us was...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u98	Mr Minister, if I may, the 'proposal' in itself is not binding. We'd better make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u99	All right, let's put it on. There is no such intent or mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u100	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u101	Let us put it explicitly so that it can be fully cleared up. However, what you said about if there is life after death, let's better wonder if there is life before death! That is a more substantial question. Let us move on with Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Reconciliation, who has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spirtz, Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Alexiadis - who entered 'black' in five days, as he said, on the private channels which had not yet proceeded to that institutional framework until that day. Without the EPP being formed, the signature! And the signature was basically for closure. Signature stays, can't be withdrawn. So what really happened was an institutional diversion. Of course, he had to be classed on an anarchist television field. However, it does not only enter with money, without the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council, causing 'black' to viable television stations. Because several television stations are viable. They paid money, gave millions of euros and they pay their employees right now. So it does not enter under this black process, defining centrally and arbitrarily only four permits. So you took the amendment back after the reactions. It can't, of course, come back. What we are saying is that the National Broadcasting Council had to have been set up from the first moment, and badly SYRIZA and the New Democracy did not help with its creation at that time, with the consent of all four-fifths required in the Conference of Presidents. This is, of course, a consensus which requires, above all, the two major parties to come to an agreement. Of course, the withdrawal on Friday night was also an admission that it needs to be established so that it can work. Before, was it not necessary to establish it to make every possible effort or even more efforts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u103	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u104	It is not the Minister, Mr. Philis - the Ministry of Education - that is the expedited Ministry for this bill - that we congratulate him on his election to the central committee of your conference and wish him every success in reaching agreement with his partner, Mr. Kammenos, on the issues of education! I say this because this is about the country. We wouldn't call it another way. And it wouldn't have been for no party's conference if it hadn't been for the country. This is a question of ruling parties right now. And, of course, when we blame the logic of 'vote - vote' within the Greek Parliament - we also have an amendment, which we will debate tomorrow, which is precisely that of the logic - we did not expect that this is a conference policy, which we saw in the previous days at the SYRIZA Congress, on the subject of 'I am voting - I am voting'. However, we are seeing this here in the Greek Parliament. We see it all the time. And this is about the country. We've seen too many issues from free professionals, research issues, lecturers and assistant teachers. We will discuss them tomorrow in the amendments. In fact, as a Parliament, we voted for this a month ago, we are now voting for it. These cannot, therefore, be continued, as this procedure of derogating from the legislation cannot continue. We did not say by chance that you were government 'with a derogation' on certain issues. Two amendments you have incorporated into the bill. Some are also logical, such as, for example, cleanliness, there are things that need to be solved. But there must be a plan. You will always write in - as in both amendments - 'by way of derogation'. So are we going to make a plan on all these issues, for example - and I am talking about the derogating issues that you have now brought - cleanliness or about the issue relating to the other amendment that we are going to be discussing? Twenty months have passed since you've taken over. Unfortunately, while they should not be concerned at the moment with the research bill, they also concern this bill, as do any other legislation we have in front of us. And I say 'unfortunately', because we have all the goodwill for this legislation. We have also demonstrated this in the way in which we deal with this bill on the vote, but also in substance by making proposals, many of which you have accepted. And that is a good thing, and that is something we have said to the relevant committees. We are now going to the question of education and the specific bill. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countries seeking ways to become more competitive through education. On the other hand, our country is on the other side. Education remains binding on ideas, lacks a real progressive reform framework and a substantial political planning involving vision and consultation. It is not only about education but also about the future of our country. We would expect at least in the recent agenda a debate in the House on education to reflect clear objectives and a long-term planning that will allow education to become an impediment to the crisis. Instead, we saw Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras fighting about where everyone has done his education and where he has finished his secondary and higher education. I think that is not something that honours the debate on education today, on how the debate should be held. And of course, it does not honor a discussion, whose only achievements are whether or not schools and school books operate on time. But let us see how the situation in the field of higher education and research is. Universities today bend under the burden of lack of resources and human resources. The Prime Minister, referring to the pre-dated debate in the House, pointed out that for the first time after six years there was finally the recruitment of members of the LAG to universities and TEIs. He once again spoke of this commitment to the five hundred posts. This is an emblematic effort, for which we have been telling you that it is not actually a solution, but a vote of what has been retired in recent years. In addition, universities are not only devastated by teachers, but also by administrative staff, as are, of course, intermediate staff who are necessary to ensure a high quality of study. The only solution is to save forces by rationalising the map of higher education and research. At the same time, they need to upgrade, strengthen extroverty, connecting to society, finally linking to production, which does not exist. Unfortunately, no public dialogue has been organised on these issues. And is it possible for the government to try and control everything by law and this bill, especially in matters which, according to the self-employed, the university should regulate by internal rules? We are listening to promises of import without examination, without a plan, when SYRIZA was haunting earlier proposals for a national sanitation centre. I am now going to the specific bill we are discussing today concerning the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. I really wonder why a while ago we discussed the research bill in plenary did not raise the question of setting up this institution. This is sloppy, and if anything else confirms the lack of political planning. Ladies and gentlemen, no one could question the need for a rational and effective way of organising and governing a single national research web. However, this necessity, unfortunately, does not fully correspond to the recently adopted law of 2016. In order to promote research and innovation, the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation is set up, which will mainly finance research projects and grant grants. Obviously, we think that research programmes should be facilitated, as they bring money to the country and reduce unemployment, with a view to stopping the evacuation of minds - which really did not start now - and to stop the migration of scientists abroad. Obviously, we want to use the resources. However, the establishment of that institution should ensure transparency and integrity, effectiveness and, of course, the assessment of its functioning. That is why the Democratic Reconciliation has asked the principle of institutional security and made specific proposals, some of which you have accepted and some of which have not been accepted. There are, however, some regulations that give rise to reasonable questions, and that is why I shall go ahead with certain points. The first relates to the role of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. You anticipated the institution's cooperation with it and added to its objectives the conclusion of all types of contract. However, the institution's differential role in relation to the General Secretariat of Research and Technology is still not clarified, as the establishment of the Foundation coincides with the objectives of the General Secretariat's establishment and responsibilities. Questions about the feasibility of this bill are therefore being raised. Of course you have received the loan agreement, the loan, with the European Investment Bank, 180 million euros. These are added to the debt. That is why we have to pay great attention here to what we are legislating and what is to be done next, that this money will not be lost again, because it is actually added to public debt. You should therefore inform us whether you have any design or whether the General Secretariat is gradually being sidelined. In this respect, and the report of the Parliamentary Scientific Office points out that it would be advisable to lay down more clearly the framework within which these bodies operate at the same time and cooperate at the same time and, of course, states that this article, which concludes all kinds of contracts, agreements, cooperation and programming contracts with the Secretariat-General, needs clarification. If you do not respond to us, at least answer the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. The second point concerns the sustainability and financing of the institution, because the institution seems to have stable funding only from the European Investment Bank. Then, after three years, a mixture of funding is foreseen, from which it does not appear to be possible to ensure the viability of the institution. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to look more closely at the issues of the institution's staffing and the question of recruitment by means of an ADP. Among other things, it is possible to include posted civil servants, without any specification being made. But here we are talking about research, and here we should be very careful about both the employees and the posting and ensuring that all the institutions are evaluated. Allow me another point relating to the institution's interconnection and its future. Is it not a great shortage of the bill that the institution's association with production is not planned? I don't go into details because I don't have time. At the same time, in accordance with Article 12, the Ministers are authorised to establish an institution's rules of procedure. The Ministers! And if it seems strange for you to say so again, see the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. A question arises, according to the report, in relation to Article 12 of the draft law, which is given to another, other than the President of the Republic - except, in other words, Presidential Decrees - an administrative body, authorisation to deal with issues relating to which, as it turns out, do not have more specific technical or specific details and therefore matters to be regulated by a Presidential Decree. Of course, consideration is also given to Article 13, where transitional provisions effectively annul what is provided for in the law, and until the rules of procedure are published, time-consuming procedures are given to the Secretary of State with wide powers, such as powers for technical matters, staffing, space finding, all the technical issues of the institution's first operation. Ladies and gentlemen, we must give new impetus and impetus to research. In order to do this, however, we must all promote the development of a clear national research strategy and the establishment of a modern and realistic model of organisation between the public and private research. Within a clear strategy, this institution can be an important tool for financing research actions. That is why we will vote in principle on the establishment of the national institution, but it is enough to ensure that it is consistently financed and that it does not end up being a body of micro-participatory services, which fails to meet its objectives. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I must say this: it is time to deal with research, but also with education, Minister, in general, as a national issue, to protect it from any political purposes, to put it at the centre of our priorities. Balancing down cannot be a solution. Education cannot continue to be part of dogmatic austerity programmes, because in this way and in education in this difficult economic situation, the country will never be able to overcome the crisis. That's the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece is now speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, in attending today's debate on the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, as well as the one which preceded the committee's meetings, the current position of the Minister, as well as of the other parties, we think that it can draw useful overall conclusions on the real content of the confrontation between SYRIZA and New Democracy, as well as the other parties. A confrontation hollow and pollen, which is not only far from today's explosive people's needs, not only does not respond to them, but is undermining them and they are hollow and confrontation, because it is, of course, based on agreement - not to forget it - the third memorandum that you voted on and loaded it together on the backs of the people with a body, a soul, a soul, last summer, confirming your strategic assumption and emphatically assembled into the main objectives of capital and the European Union. Strategic conclusion that, of course, the more it becomes evident to the people, the more you try to hide it behind the helmet that rises on secondary and procedural issues. All of this has occurred even in the debate on the present draft law on the establishment of an institution for research and innovation. According to the Minister, the ELIDEC is a profoundly reformed intervention aimed at creating an independent and long-term institution where the scientific community itself will have the main reason for shaping the country's field of research. It's the Minister's words. Really, Minister? And then why do you give two - please - positions to the representatives of business groups in an ELIDEEC centre, the Advisory Committee of the Scientific Council, which evaluates exactly the work of ELIDEEC? To have a decorative role? Or does this ensure that they have direct control over the direction and course of the research project? How long is your undertaking, when you have only secured its operation for three years and the loan by the European Investment Bank, a loan whose repayment clauses - which we do not know - will obviously be borne catalysts, or else, in the next period of the investigation area? According to the SYRIZA rapporteur again, ELIDEC is intended for a tool to overcome the crisis and it is being established in terms of growth. Our people live on their feet to overcome the crisis. The three Memorandums so far. Here's your tools to overcome the capitalist crisis. Except these tools break your wages, they abolish bloody labour conquests, they take off people's tax payroll, they lead him to poverty and impoverishment. On the other hand, give privileges and incentives and tax exemptions to capitalists, give development laws that share billions in business groups, which will lead us to growth. In the development of their profits once, it can. In the development of the people and their rights, however, that is to say the replacement of the losses that he had in the years of the crisis, but also of what our people are entitled today as the only producer of social wealth, not only do you not say a word, but in the preliminary draft budget and with anticipated growth of 2.7%, you are loading it with an additional two and a half billion meters on his back. Apart from - as the rapporteur said, one of the two rapporteurs of the government majority - and if you have as a model - today we have heard this too - Estonia, where anti-communism has become a law, with the tolerance of course of the European Union, reminding us of an older Prime Minister, who has had Denmark as a model and wanted to make our country Denmark of the south. Observing the main provisions of the bill, I think it is necessary to say here in an introductory way that this bill comes as a complement to the previous law of SYRIZA for the investigation, last May, of Law No.4386, of a law which, in turn, has come to specialize, broaden and amend, but under no circumstances to abolish Law No.4310/2014 of the previous New Democracy - PASOK, which lives and reigns, as they live and reign and apply all the laws of the first two Memorandums, together with the laws of your own memorandum. As it turns out, we do not have and could not have any radical change in the direction of the established framework for research. This bill, along with your previous law, confirms that the designs of SYRIZA Government are coming to continue on the road that the urban strategy for research use has developed and emphasising the dimension of innovation. An enlarged institutional framework is sought, through which the same strategic capital targets will be promoted and implemented more quickly and more effectively, to the profitability needs of which both research and innovation are subordinated. But what are these strategic targets for scientific research, all these legislative interventions, which none of you doubt, except the Communist Party of Greece? Above all, it is the unique orientation of research into the needs of capitalist development, namely growth, increased capital profitability, and not, of course, the orientation of research into the current needs of the majority, in line with the current potential of science. Research and innovation, therefore, where there is a smell of capitalist profits and not where human needs require them. It is a typical example here - and we have said it before - of the growing research activity of pharmaceutical colosses in the cosmetics sector, for example, at the expense of combating major diseases affecting humanity. Not to talk about the conditions of exploitation of all innovations resulting from scientific research. This distortion, the objective of the social character of science and its subordination to the profitability needs of capital, which are the purpose of scientific research, has other consequences of chains and direct effects, such as the even greater strengthening of the business of scientific research centres, namely research into the capitalist market in terms of capitalist market. This in turn leads to the decline of the rights of workers in the area by generalising flexible working relationships, job insecurity, uncertainty, and wage degradation. All the above basic objectives of the urban strategy for scientific research are the building materials of this draft law on the ELIDEEC. So one can explain the political embarrassment of the New Democracy. The rest of the urban parties would say that today they showed an increased consensus. The political dismay of the New Democracy, which is in line with the substance and strategic objectives of the bill, raises opposition krone for procedural or secondary provisions. The substance of the bill is that the ELIGHTEC is operating in accordance with the rules of the private economy as a legal person under private law. It expressly refers, in addition to the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, which operates as a legal person governed by public law, but which is more flexible than this and therefore more comfortable to co-operate with the business groups, to serve directly, even if it starts at an experimental stage at first. It states that the institution finances the creation and operation of newly-integrated research enterprises, that it concludes contracts with natural and legal persons - that is to say - and that it finances direct enterprises of national and foreign. This is the so-called national strategy for research and innovation, and this national strategy is no more than the urban strategy for strengthening domestic and international research capital. All now is this crescendo of entrepreneurship, which is also the constituent substance of the institution, can only have negative consequences, as we have said, for workers. The provisions of the Law on the Staff of the Foundation reproduce all the range of flexible labour relations of the type of contract, i.e. the known block, previously won by SYRIZA or the hostage of a fixed-term private-law contract and then by unemployment and so on. Let the Minister speak here about jobs with decent conditions and even support for the improvement of scientific potential. Thus, not least is the core of the policy of all the previous urban governments, which has proved to be disastrous for the interests of workers in the field, especially young scientists. What the government is actually trying and pursuing, in and out of this draft law, is that it is struggling, we recognise it, for the capitalist development of the country by integrating this design into the research sector with credit and new programmes that do not even reach the levels of the previous ones, while, at the same time, reproducing the existing gross and insecure, as we have said, for workers in the field of the operation of research in the country. At the opposite end of this policy is certainly the development of scientific research in the service of expanded people's needs. This, however, implies a different social and economic organization, presupposes the socialisation of the concentrated means of production, the scientific central design of social production, the power of wealth producers and not the power of capital now. This is our answer, Minister, to the last question you raised to us, because this is the only realistic option that will benefit, not only four thousand - probably researchers, but the whole scientific and research potential of the country, which will put it to the service of society's needs. Before I get off the Step, we will once again be dealing with the amendments. Stop this bombing with inappropriate amendments to bills that the amendments have nothing to do with. What we don't have today! We have submarines, we have judges, we have OTE, we have a Merchant Navy. I don't know, remember a little what you were saying from the opposition's benches when the previous government was following this tactic. Of course, we recognise that there are also some exceptional and urgent cases, and that is the case with cleansing contractors, and that is why we have tabled our amendment, which provides, not only for the extension of their contracts until the end of 2017, but also for their conversion to an indefinite contract of employment, of course, in the logic of the proposal of our party, its firm position for permanent and stable work for all. Our rapporteur has also mentioned more detail about the articles in the bill. We'll talk tomorrow. In any case, we say here - and our rapporteur has said so - that we are voting against this bill at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, George Amyras, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with one objection from what I have heard from my dear colleague, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC in relation to Estonia. It will not remain on the subject of the Soviet past - so to speak - that led her to make a law prohibiting communist symbols, but I will come to today's reality, not so much today for Estonia, since almost twelve years ago she has abolished the paper in the state's dealings with the citizen. I wish we were one Estonia too in the way that public administration is moving. So we have too much to learn from small countries. But, here in Greece, I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that we have such a public administration that cannot even carry out the simple things. What now to say 'Estonia and electronic registers and all transactions and contacts of the citizen with the state electronically'. Here we are at the paperwork kingdom! In any case, I come up with a little bit on the subject. These days the Greek economy is back on the headlines, but not at a positive glance. Before I discuss these developments in detail, I would like to read out something to see the theatre of the irrationality experienced by the government, but also by Greek society, from reluctance - do you want to see it? - the weakness - say - the inability of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to move forward with the reforms that it had committed itself to. So I read to you: "The first assessment has been completed. The debt issue is immediately regulated as of tomorrow's day. This was noted by the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, on 24 May - he gave it to the press - triumphing about the alleged closure of the evaluation. When? In May he passed us. We have in the middle of October and we still have to wait until 24 October to see whether the second substation of EUR 1.7 billion is finally to be disbursed, which this money would go to and go to public debts to private individuals. Could someone say "Okay, it's okay, we don't need that money with such an urgent warming, as they're going to go to private individuals for that money." But they are hanging out of a thread, they are between deterioration and incorruption, because the SYRIZA - ANLL government does not do the reforms, it does not go ahead with the steps it has agreed and signed and it is paid again by the Greeks who are trying, who are struggling to get out of this junk of crisis. But the theater of irrationality didn't stop here. On 9 May the Prime Minister visited the President of the Republic. He informed him on 9 May - I tell you, almost six months ago - with the following: 'The first assessment has been closed, without additional measures and the road map for debt relief has been drawn up'. The festive climate continued the next day. On May 10, at the Ministerial Council, your co-pilot, or rather your partner, Panos Kammenos, came by holding two ties to the Ministerial Council, one red and one blue to donate them to the Prime Minister and the one who is supposed to set the debt. The other day, Mr. Tsipras wasn't wearing a tie. And that's why? In last May's agreement bearing the signatures of the government, the Greek side committed in writing that any debt settlement or, if you wish, any debt settlement debate will take place at the end of 2018. So why are we talking? For this, Mr Tsakalotos and the other ministers were bound to sign and celebrate in May at the Ministerial Council. So far...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u109	Who are you with? You're with Shoeble?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u110	I'll tell you who Shoeble is. It is the Siomple who opens the door, with his inability, to Siomple and each Siomple to bring the issue to the attention of Grexit in Greece. Are you telling us about Shoeble?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u111	Who's bringing the Grexit theme back? Aren't you ashamed to slag?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u112	Are you telling us about Shoeble?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u113	With the evaluation, do you scooter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u114	You're a good gospel! Mr. Shoeble lights up until the ceiling because he has Mr. Tsipras at the wheel. He has done all the dirty work and doesn't sound "kitch". So far we have known well the cost of negotiating Varoufakis - Tsipras. Mr Stournaras has told us, it's 86 billion. More than Mr. Reggling has told us for 100 billion. However, the account goes up, ladies and gentlemen, and in the second period, in Tsipras-Tsakalotou. Can we talk about pensioners and reductions in their pensions? Should we talk about taxpayers and tax increases? Let's say that from January 1st is coffee, fuel, fixed telephony. Shouldn't we talk about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u115	Will you tell us about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u116	Why are you reacting, gentlemen? Sit down and listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u117	Decide on who you're on, which side you're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u118	It is your inertia that mobilizes the scenarios of Europe's most conservative circles to talk about Grexit. You're the ones who are armed with the weapon, which is turning it back against our country. Your responsibility is great! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Okay? Please! Don't pretend to be the innocent. Now there's no Varoufakis, the useful... to make a game for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u119	"Vasta Siomple"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u120	You asked a question about Varoufakis. Weren't we talking about it here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Does it not concern anyone in Kumbudur - I spent the morning coming here - that there are three hundred black flags of people who say that "black has no hue"? Wouldn't anyone make a statement about these people? For the two thousand, that is, families of technicians, journalists, managers, accountants, porters, cleaners working on private channels?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u122	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u123	Minister, on the microphone everything you have to say, about what you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u124	‘What are you?’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, whatever you have to say to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u126	Please don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Defyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u127	But don't you hear here? That's where they're making a string.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u128	Please go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u129	Are we making a stand? You guys are turning around!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u130	In any case, we have a proposal to make as a river. This unrelenting conflict on television licences must be stopped here. We therefore propose that Mr Voutsis, the President of Parliament, after the decision of the Council of State on television licences, take the initiative of setting up a legitimate National Broadcasting Council. Until then, let us make a moratorium, because you cannot want the National Broadcasting Council to take out regional channel permits, but do not want it to be issued for national channels. What's gonna happen? Two yards and two stations? Or the National Broadcasting Council for all, or the Pappa Law, which you and we support, we regard as suppressing them, but we must all wait for the decision of the Council of State. So until then, it would be good for the government and the opposition to put the sword on the dock, to wait for the decision of the Council of State and then all the political forces to commit themselves to implementing this decision by law, whatever it may be, with the relevant law that will require change or no change depending on the decision of the court. That's our proposal. I'm coming to the draft law. In the current difficult economic situation, then, only one is the bright path that will get us out of the crisis. Investment in science, research, technology, new minds, young people. We believe that the leaking of new scientists abroad is, of course, an open wound that continues to bleed, but it can be overturned, with many small steps. We must, however, understand that leaving young people abroad is not just the result of the economic crisis. It is mainly the result of the crisis of values. It is mainly the result of the anxiocracy, the client state, the communism everywhere. It is the well-known problem of non-equal opportunities. Some are more equal than others and precedes everywhere in the best. That's the problem. The establishment by the proposed draft law of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, we consider it a positive step. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, what we see positively is what we see negatively, we will of course have the duty and the right before you to burn them down. We therefore believe that this is a positive step. Also, positive is that the Minister accepted several of the river proposals. However, there are also some blurred points, as our rapporteur, Mr Mavrotas, pointed out, such as the EUR 180 million loan from the European Investment Bank and the conditions for its receipt. There are some blurred points in terms of duplication of powers and objectives, primarily with the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology - the other colleagues have analysed it very much - and the staffing and evaluation of its work and its institutions in Greece. It is good and we must at some point learn not only to make something or to copy successful administrative structures elsewhere - perhaps this is also a good model - but we must evaluate them after their recommendation, follow them a step, so that we are not permanently in a black hole where we are throwing money, resources, human resources and not, and they are lost. So there must be monitoring so that the Foundation's actions are not fragmentary. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider that if the young Greeks who are abroad, for study or work, see some positive signs, some 'green light' as to how this imbalance in favour of undiversity changes and at the expense of democracy, they will be willing to begin thinking about their return. One very small step, I would say to you - one can say that it is not the essential one and I will agree, but it is a small step - it is to allow half a million Greeks and Greeks, young children abroad, to vote by letter, as is done in all European countries. Why exclude this half a million of the flowers of Greek youth, science, work, people who are anyway after life? Why are we cutting them off? On every front we have to show them that those who are abroad, these children who have opened their horizons and have seen and now they can compare, have a place here, but a place, as I have told you, on the basis of merit and equal opportunities. That's what I had to tell you. The rest of the way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Alexandros Haritzis, State Secretary for Economy, Development and Tourism, has the floor for ten minutes. Minister, I imagine that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u132	Yes, Mr President, that's enough. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very positive that, on the basis of this bill, a debate on research is taking place in the House. You will allow me to say that, in my opinion, it is an area that should be more open to public debate as a whole. Of course, primarily in the Ministry of Education and as a whole in the government we attach central importance to scientific research and technological development as pillars of the productive model that we are seeking to promote. The government's policy is uniform and coherent and we work very closely together as the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education's research sector, so as to ensure the necessary funding for the initiatives undertaken by the Ministry of Education and, together, to draw up the policy necessary to link research to production, so as to achieve our great programming objective, which is to transform the Greek economy into a knowledge-intensive economy that invests in research and technological innovation. The labour devaluation strategy that has been followed in recent years is of the opinion that it has shown itself to be deadlocked and destructive. It led to the mass migration of hundreds of thousands of young people, a man-made and well-trained man-made man who should be at the forefront of the effort to bring the country's economy back and, on the other hand, greatly reduced the competitiveness of the Greek economy, as this policy was unable to tackle a fundamental structural problem of the Greek economy, which was the very low investment in research and technology. The aim can no longer be an economy of cheap labour, but an economy that will produce services and products socially useful and of significant added value. The basic competitive advantage of the Greek economy to achieve this objective is its human potential, the young scientists, the engineers, who have the potential to find themselves with a leading role in this effort. It is characteristic that according to the official figures available from the global economic forum, the Greek economy is very high in the availability of scientists and engineers, as well as relatively high in patents per capita, but it is very low in the adoption of innovations, in the costs of research and business development. The conditions are therefore there, but these conditions are not exploited. For the Government it is the first priority that the tendency to leave young scientists abroad should be halted, that the so-called Brain Drain should be recovered. The actions designed to achieve this policy are based on three main priorities: first, support for new dynamic entrepreneurship in all its forms. In the next few days I think there will be a possibility of discussing another important bill introducing new forms of entrepreneurship, and I am referring to the Social Economy Bill. Secondly, support for research and work carried out in the country's research and university institutions. And thirdly, connecting these - many times - two worlds that are in complete discrepancy, the world of research and the world of production. Within this overall effort of the government, the initiative taken by the Ministry of Education and by the Deputy Minister of Research Kostas Fotakis for the establishment of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation, ELIDEK, we believe it will play a very important role. The Minister has already mentioned in detail the Foundation's basic characteristics. We don't have to add anything more. I will only say a few words about funding. As you know, funds have been provided by the European Investment Bank of EUR 180 million. This loan agreement - you will allow me to say - is not lightning. It is linked to a number of joint initiatives that we have recently taken as the Ministry of Economy and the European Investment Bank to strengthen important projects and initiatives by the Government, and we consider that it shows the confidence of the European Central Bank in the prospects of the Greek economy. In addition to these resources, however, because of the fact that the financing of such a project cannot be based solely on the loan from the European Investment Bank, we have also planned a commitment from the national part of the Public Investment Programme. Because I have heard before about programming, to say that the relevant resources have already been committed for the next three years. The amounts committed by the public investment programme are EUR 5 million for 2016 until the end of the year, EUR 15 million for 2017 and EUR 20 million for 2018 and 2019. Overall, our policy is to make the most of the opportunities offered by the National Public Investment Programme. That is why, as reflected in the preliminary draft budget, which was submitted to the House a few days ago, we are moving towards increasing the relevant funds, a total of EUR 1 billion for the National Public Investment Programme for 2017-2018 and EUR 1,25 billion for 2019 and 2020, for the first time - you will allow me to note - after a decade of constant decline in the sizes of the National Public Investment Programme. A total of EUR 240 million will therefore be used for the ELIDEEC for the period 2016-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u133	The prerequisite was 60 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u134	A total of 240 million, 180 million plus 60 million. Of course, research is not only financed by this initiative, which is very important. It is also financed by the ESRB. But, as the Minister said, there are issues of the subject and of geographical distribution in the NSRF as a result of regulatory restrictions. The resources of the ESRB are, of course, very important and will be used to the fullest extent as is already the case. However, the specific Foundation, the particular institution with the increasing - if you like - degrees of freedom and special status, will be able to operate in addition to all other initiatives by the Government to finance research. In relation to the NRP, basic and applied research is reinforced in universities and research institutions, i.e. new researchers and researchers are funded with EUR 106 million. The relevant programmes have already been announced by both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economy. A total of EUR 330 million for higher education is EUR 330 million. However, significant funds are also being channelled from the NRP to interconnect the Greek economy with research. Overall, so that I do not get to the components because we do not have the necessary time, I say that 1 billion euros will go to projects to boost technological development research and innovation through the EMEA, the Business Programme of Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship, Innovation. EUR 500 million has already been specificised and calls have been published for more than EUR 110 million, and the road map of research infrastructures is being updated through these. This work will be completed by the end of November so that the self-commitment set in 2014 in the adoption of the relevant operational programmes of the ESRB can also be lifted. Moreover, a very important action prepared by our Ministry and implemented by the Ministry of Education's General Secretariat for Research and Technology is the 'Research - Creating - Innovative' action with a total budget of EUR 370 million. This pre-publishment has already been announced by the Ministry of Education. But you will allow me to say in relation to the NRP - and I will close the NRP fund with this - because it was heard before and before the rapporteur of the LRP in relation to the absorption of the former NRP to restore reality,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u135	We told the CFD, 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u136	May I? Thank you. The absorption of the old NRP at the beginning of 2015 on the investigation arm was at 50%. It is currently at 90% and will be closed as will all the programmes for the NRP 2007-2013 with full success. You know very well that a very important effort has been made over the past one and a half to eliminate distortions of the past. I would remind you that the overcompensation of the NRP programmes totalled 160%. This job has worked. This work brought Greece to the top of the absorption. I think it would be a good thing for the opposition to welcome this effort and not to seek where there are no areas of opposition criticism. I conclude by saying that the government is promoting a grid of interventions in relation to research, which is trying to make use of all the financial tools available to us to support research activity in Greece in both positive and technological sciences and in humanitarian and social sciences. In this context, the establishment of the EMI is a very important and critical initiative. From the point of view of the Ministry of Economy, the bet on the reversal of the trend towards the departure of new scientists abroad will be addressed both with the invitations of the NRP and with other initiatives, such as the fund of funds which we announced the previous period in cooperation with the European Investment Fund, which will enable us to strengthen new innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. All these initiatives, in cooperation with all the co-legislative ministries, will enable us eventually to bet the economic projection and growth of the Greek economy to be won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u137	Thanks to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. Alexandros Haritsis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty two students and students, as well as four teachers from the 1st Trikalon Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform our visitors that they are following the process of adopting a law of the Ministry of Education on research and now the parliamentary representatives are speaking. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Association of Centres, Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are discussing a very important issue for the establishment of a Greek institution, which will manage exclusively, centrally and all the funding and all the issues relating to research in the academic field. I think that, overall, the entire university world, like the participants in the committee during the debate on the bill, has agreed that there is a need for serious planning in research, which, unfortunately, has been left behind in recent years in our country. And the reason why research is lacking in Greece is, of course, not that it has a shortage of human resources. On the contrary, we have extremely mindful, amazing scientists, but we have not been able to use them for so many years. The result is that all these scientists and the majority of Greek academics and researchers leave abroad and work there with research. Now more than ever it is necessary for the institution to do what is recommended by today's bill and manages serious funds and can give a restart to Greek research. However, as positive as I face the Ministry's effort, I cannot overlook some important problems. First of all, there is the big issue of the loan that we will receive from the European Investment Bank and in relation to this, and I and the Central Bank of Greece personally must make it clear that, of course, we consider that the Greek side has received financial support from the European Union, even with the sum of EUR 240 million, which is extremely high and I am glad that it will help to develop the research, but not forget that this is not about money that gives us, we are simply lending them. It is another new loan in terms that we have not fully met who will be. We therefore need to pay great attention both to the use of this amount and to its repayment. Unfortunately, we have been used to all these years, to a large extent, living with loan funds. I think that at least the time has come for us to take this opportunity and make the most of this opportunity. Also, one of my fundamental disagreements in the whole philosophy of the bill is the fact that the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation will finance, Minister, just as the Greek universities and TEIs with private enterprises. At this point, you should put a quota.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u139	There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u140	Do you have a quota? And don't they get half the universities and privates?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u141	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u142	If you've done this, I think it's a pleasure. Because the Greek universities should, at least, be able to attract researchers and bring them back. However, once again, we come before a bill which, despite its positive points, gives the Minister of Education unlimited or even excessive responsibilities. In other words, I think, with this bill deliberately, there are loopholes left to the Minister responsible for having the final word on important issues. We cannot talk about an operationally independent institution when the Minister can cease a member of the general assembly for acts that are incompatible with his capacity. And the wording is so general that the Minister for Education is allowed ample scope to judge on a case-by-case basis who is conducting himself properly and who is not. But then we continue the logic of the past and we are supposedly creating independent bodies, which the government is directing alone. I consider this provision to be unacceptable, and in these cases there should be a specific list of misconduct which would justify the removal of the member from the general assembly, not arbitrarily to remove anyone we want. I also strongly criticised the competent committee the provision which allows the institution to withdraw civil servants, who will maintain their organic position in the Ministry which was, but will work in the institution and be paid by it. Despite our reactions, you want this article to be voted on as it stands. There's no evaluation. After they come to the new institution, you make a client relationship, they'll be paid, they'll be paid off by the institution, so they won't have a wage limit. In other words, we will have in this regard, Minister, two-speed civil servants, the normal people, who will be paid for on the payroll, and those who are more favoured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u143	Same thing is from the same payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u144	But they'll be paid by the foundation, so the foundation can pay them as much as it wants, won't get the civil servants' payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u145	The same is true of civil servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u146	Yes, I wish. I do not believe that, because you have not clarified this to us, you have not specified that. You are bringing it to the vote - I am sorry to say it - without giving us any article or explaining it to us, you leave it to us. For me, this is the case, the institution will be able to pay higher salaries to civil servants uncontrolled. Prove otherwise. I also think that you only do so for voting reasons, nothing else. There's no other explanation for me. In addition to this, the bill loses the essence of the matter, because the President of POSON has agreed with the procedure that there is a thought that there will be a new investigation, etc., but you are not giving us the results. How to assess them and how to use them, that is what we are going to do. Despite the bureaucratic inconveniences of the bill, what will result from the investigation be ensured and how will we give these entity programmes to be exploited? After that, what's gonna happen, what's next? Are we going through the theory in practice, or are we leaving the ideas of researchers untapped without applying them? The bill suffers from this regulation completely. And I think that legislative initiative should be taken to cover this part. At this point I would like to leave the individual arrangements, which our special speaker, Mr Saridis, analysed, and to deal with some issues of topicality. With regard to the amendments to the bill, I should first like to refer to television licences. We saw a thriller evolving in the past few days. The Minister of State has brought the famous amendment under number 708, which stipulates that within five days of the publication of the CVT on new licences, television channels which have not been licensed should cease to operate. And after the general outcry that took place, the Minister withdrew the amendment. I do not know if you understand, Minister, that the actions of the Minister on licences are accompanied by serious consequences. The workers of unauthorized television stations live - if you understand - in an anguish, an insecurity, they do not know what will happen tomorrow and make them surprising, bringing them into such a difficult position. Can't the Minister understand his responsibility toward all this world? They live with the glutton over their heads. Obviously, the Central Association does not agree to remain the scene of television licences. Of course, however, we disagree on the violent way in which this is being done and of course we expect the Council of State decision in the next few days and there is no point in running amendments. The legality must be respected in all procedures not only by the citizens, but, I believe, by the ministers. I also agree with Amendment No 698, which increases the number of judicial officers by thirty. The problems of delaying the administration of Greek justice are mainly due to the lack of a sufficient number of judges, because the volume of cases is too great. With this amendment you are taking a step. I hope that the image of the courts will be improved even further, that the judges will be increased, so that we will have faster results. Finally, I would like to refer to the issue of Religious Religious Religious Religious Affairs and has created a social turbulence. All the attitude of the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, in relation to the way the issue is handled, is arrogant and inappropriate. The head of the Ministry of Education determines the future of our own children and had to have another place in his place. I think it is at least arrogant, as a human, as a minister, to think that he is aware of all the issues of education and not to take advice from others. First of all, I think it should take into account the position of the Church, because the role of the Church is constitutionally guaranteed and therefore institutionally respected. And today it may be that Minister, tomorrow it may be someone else. The educational system cannot change according to the Minister's ideological past. First he must be Minister of Education and then be SYRIZA. Finally, I will make a small reference to the issue of red loans, which is always in the news and concerns most Greeks. The situation has reached border points, the world does not actually have the ability to respond to the loans granted at other times under other conditions. The problem of red loans is perpetuating, burdening the national economy, the situation of banks, but especially households and businesses who are struggling to survive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In fact, months ago, in a debate on the acquisition of the loans from the funds, I had already proposed that the borrower should be able to buy his loan at the price to be sold at the fund. This must be clearly and legally defined. That is why I call on the government finally to see the issue of red loans in particular and to have a comprehensive serious solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u147	Thank you to Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor in principle for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President, but I must point out that the floor is given to Members four hours after the debate. Parliamentary representatives were ahead of them, precisely to repeat what the rapporteurs of their parties had just formulated before them. In any case, we thank the rapporteurs from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks who did not ask for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very interesting bill that aims to help revitalise scientific research in our country. The establishment of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation seeks to give decisive impetus and to open new prospects to the development of an integrated research strategy conducted by universities, TEIs and research centres. The main purpose of the ELIDEK is to fund research programmes from scientific bodies, as well as to provide grants to young scientists for doctoral thesis, as well as postdoctoral studies. It is estimated that over four thousand young scientists will benefit from more than four thousand young people and there will be a stir of leakage from young people abroad and possibly the beginning of a wave of returning young scientists in the country, who are willing to offer them the same opportunities. And this bill offers these possibilities. The very interesting feature of the EMI is that its financing will not be subject to the commitments of the ESRB, which, as we know, relate to quotas, but also to geographical criteria. It is known that the ESDP does not finance basic research, clean research, related to scientific curiosity, as it very little finances research in the fields of humanitarian and social sciences. These commitments do not exist in the new institution. The rules on financing by the EMI are simple. They are adapted to the specificities of the investigation and are free of bureaucratic procedures. The new institution will, therefore, have the flexibility needed to overcome such clamps. In any case, of course, it will be the responsibility of the public interest and therefore, as the relevant articles provide, that the principles of transparency and sound financial management are fully respected, as is required by each public body to do. The resources managed by the new institution are additional, in addition to those of the ESRB. In the first phase, the institution will manage funds of EUR 240 million, of which three quarters are loans from the European Investment Bank, on the basis of the loan contract signed by the bank with the Greek State on 15 July. It is therefore additional resources, in addition to those managed by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. The ELIDEK will therefore have a complementary function of the General Secretariat. After all, both bodies will implement the same national research policy. Therefore, every attempt to create a climate of artificial confrontation between the two institutions is both pointless and unrealistic. The second, particularly important feature of the ELIDEEC is that the funding of research programmes will be based on the principle of excellent academic performance. It is clearly stated that an unnegotiable criterion for the choices of the institution is the pursuit of scientific quality and excellence. We dedicate this to all those who are squeezing the word "excellence" in all falls, so much so now that it has become candy. The bill today is the practical proof of who really cares about quality and innovation. The new scientific institute is fully self-government, without outside or interference. The general meeting is being set up by renowned scientists, designated exclusively by universities, TEIs and research centres. No representative of the Ministry shall participate in the General Assembly. And while the bill is quite clear on this point, the New Democracy insists on talking about the supposedly superpowers of the Minister, who are in fact nonexistent. The minimum powers which gave the original text of the bill to the Minister became even less, as the two possibilities of the Minister had already been removed, namely, to object to the participation of a member in the general assembly or to the choice of another on the Scientific Council, which were not essential responsibilities, and in both cases the last word belonged to the General Assembly. In any case, these responsibilities now do not exist. This change is only one of the things that took place during the debate in the Committee on Educational Affairs, as is the fact that the best solution was found to participate in the general meeting and the TEI, without, however, making the slightest reduction in quality and scientific and research competence. Furthermore, even for the absolutely necessary actions relating to the establishment and start-up of the institution, a time limit is set, which, in my opinion, is suffocating, only three months until 31 January 2017. I would like here to highlight the serious work done by the Ministry in preparing and drawing up the bill, but also the constructive attitude that has been expressed by the Minister during the discussion in committee. Many of the comments of the parties involved in the hearing were accepted and incorporated in the bill, as well as many Members' comments as well as the opposition parties. This constructive attitude of the Minister was recognised by the rapporteurs of the Democratic Integration, the River and the Centron Union at the last meeting of the committee, at the second reading, and was confirmed today, when all three rapporteurs said that they voted in principle. So, almost alone, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, out of place and time, was really left to carry the obsessed and nightmares of the leadership of Officer Response. It is a clear refusal, no proposal, not even to the self-evident and obvious. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A feature of the embarrassment in which the New Democracy lies is that of the claim - falsely - that the ELIDEK is not independent, as the Minister is allegedly overpowered. On the other hand, they also call for this work to be entrusted to the General Secretariat, a body of purely government which is of course completely controlled by the Minister. It is time to choose: Do they want the work we are discussing, to be exercised by an independent body or government-controlled Secretariat for Research and Technology? They can't support both.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u149	Please complete your thoughts, Mr. Baxvanaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u150	No matter how difficult they are, it would be a good thing at some point to choose the kind of opposition they want to exercise. What they're doing today is his opposition whatever it is. It is obvious that they are completely blinded by their deprivation syndrome and their unwitting desire to return to the government headquarters, which for someone, unspecified reason, they consider themselves to be their own right. Unfortunately, we cannot help them in this. All we can recommend is patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Dimitris Baxvanakis from SYRIZA. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Theodores Fortsakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the creation of a new institution, which was provided for in a specific loan contract with the aim of managing funds for research to manage funds totalling EUR 240 million. I would clarify that the initiative to set up this body belongs to the Greek side - it was not imposed by anyone - which preferred to set up a new organisation, rather than entrusted with the management of existing bodies. I would like to make two points here, Mr Minister. The first is that we have a fundamental disagreement on the question of how this body will function, because it is, in its own view, a purely economic body, and secondly on the general philosophy of this body. Because I have heard the previous colleague, Mr Baxvanakis, say that we have no proposal. So you will hear what our thoughts on this point are. Why is the entity a shortcut? Because we receive a loan from the Investment Bank and the Public Investment Programme and the money will be available for the period 2016-2018. We don't know what happens next. We are therefore building an intermediate management body, so that money can be managed for a specific period, which is money in particular, and there is nothing for it to do with it. It is therefore a solution that responds to a need of the moment and which is being dealt with purely bureaucratically. However, we also divide a basic - if you like - into the philosophy of this institution. First of all, if we really wanted the body to operate, we should decide on a general reconstruction of all the bodies that are looking for the management of research funds. The General Secretariat has its problems, it is relatively disorganised. We know that. We know that we are committed by the ESRB to having a worthwhile and transparent management of funds, which certainly does not exist today. And we could, if we really wanted to respond to the need for things and taking into account the fact that research is being carried out today in a fragmented and fragmented way, fully reconstructed all those bodies that are in existence today and compose this framework of research and within them to place the management of the money we receive. However, it divides us, if you want, and a more profound view of philosophical and policy, which is hereafter: no one disputes that research needs state support. State support has been given to research in all the major states, and to the most liberal ones, and it is not reasonable to have research without state support. However, on the other hand, no one is aware of having an investigation based on the state alone. Because the two feet are just as useful, and the state and the private. The second part is completely ignored here. We would like there to be a single body, on the basis of a single national research network, which would bring together not only the Higher Education Institutions and the TEs, but also the research centres and which would ensure the interconnection and coordination of all the research carried out and would significantly facilitate its promotion. So we would like there to be such a national, single research network and there to be an agency that will manage it and implement a single research strategy. So we would have a research aimed at innovative, precisely in support of innovative entrepreneurship, and this body would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the strategy for all the agencies that I have mentioned. This single coordination would also ensure a regular interaction between the institutions involved, would allow us to maximise research targets at a pan-Hellenic level and would allow us to attract important funds from non-State bodies as well. This new body should be very much financed by the private sector, because this would have a much better link between the economy and the labour market, and we would have a stable dialogue between the social partners in the market, which would make a crucial contribution to the definition of research objectives. We know that, unfortunately, in Greece, research has not been adequately funded by the private initiative. It would therefore be an opportunity to create the conditions for the private initiative to be involved much more and to co-ordinate the objectives of research with the State. Research cannot be just one research purely practical. No one disputes that research is being conducted and gives some results which, at a time when research is being carried out, we cannot even suspect them. No one has said that we must stop this kind of investigation. However, no one can accept that we only have research that has no specific objectives. And these specific objectives here do not exist. What is the study, Minister, for the compensation of the sums you will make for this research? We are lending 240 million and we do not know how to get back a single euro. Is there any plan to tell us what the operation will be and how this programme of innovative research is to be implemented, which the new body is supposed to serve? For us, therefore, the difference in the political treatment of the institution is enormous and we find that we are intersectionary, if you like, against it. Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to talk more about the articles and the internal structure. However, I would like to stress now that, unfortunately, the transparency and integrity you wish to serve with the creation of this new institution is not served, and not only is it not served, but we are in a context that serves exactly the opposite, namely transparency and lack of democracy. Because even if you personally, as I believe, do not resort to undeclared choices, the risk remains of these choices being made, because there are no mechanisms which guarantee otherwise. Tomorrow in the debate on the articles I will have the opportunity - because my time has passed - to highlight those points in which, in our view, there is the possibility of atrocities and opaque choices. I conclude by saying that my conclusion is that you are resorting to the creation of a new bureaucratic body, which will be charged to Greece by appointments, obviously, which will be done in the meantime, the money you are lending will be exhausted, without knowing what their recompense will be and an agency will be left with no money, with no staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u153	Thank you to Mr Theodore Fortsakis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u155	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u156	I would just like to make one comment at this last point raised by Mr Fortsakis. Guaranteeing transparency and guaranteeing the success of the new body is about the degree of maturity of the academic and research ecosystem. In fact, what is being done - and I would like to stress this once again and that is the originality - is that universities, research centres, what TEIs are in, are the owners of the organisation. They'll figure out what's going on. We believe that this maturity exists, we have that confidence. There is indeed. On the other hand, there may be some doubt and there may be a risk, but it is, in fact, an emancipation element of the country's own system and scientific community. We believe in it, and that is why we say that the Minister, the Secretary-General, does not have all this staff structure, which is to decide. And you know well, Mr. Fortsakis, that the decisions were not at all in the right direction, and we have examples in programs like ARISTIA, where the Minister, the Deputy Minister, was the one who arranged what was going to happen, and the world was looking for results from his staff, or I don't know what was there. That's what we want to avoid, and that's why we trust the community itself, where we see each other in making this body from the bottom and not from the bottom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Minister. The Member of the Democratic Association, Mr. Chara Kefalidou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law that bets on the best tomorrow in the country. He's trying to win the lost ground in the field of science, research and innovation. He bets on the recovery of the country's bleeding from the best minds. It is regrettable that this debate is taking place in the polluted environment by the government's actions. I have often supported it from these benches. Gentlemen of the government, your slightest intent to drown yourself in the deep well of your idealism and arrogantness. And if we wanted to sanctify, you won't let us. The tabling and saturation of the ridiculous amendment - you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, what I mean - Mr Pappas, Mr Spiritzis and Mr Tsakalotos, who has exceeded the limits not only of parliamentism but also of logic, on the pretext that the consensual formation of the PSE will first be pursued, is shattering our debate today. The government's amendment, which has been brought together in full, directly insults the prestige of justice and constitutes a blow - and it is not the first time - to distinguish powers. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill would be to support, upgrade and highlight the country's research potential and the quality of research, as a forward-looking vehicle, leaving behind the conditions of crisis and austerity that prevail. We would also like and should be part of a broad framework of legislation, as the tool for dealing with the departure of new scientists abroad. Is it? And yes and no. This draft law is, of course, a positive initiative that is trying to make use of funds for research funding. It is a real effort to support innovation, because without the necessary resources and funding we cannot talk about research or innovation. But that's as far as it goes. It is far from being the incision, the real major reform in the research landscape. It does not manage to become the body of the essential national research strategy, despite the Ministry's ambitious announcements. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not advertise it as something that is not. Suffice to what you can. To create at least the self-evident tool that will absorb money, which is out there waiting for us, for a purpose that has been neglected and we all agree on its necessity to give a boost to the country, which is smuggling every day. The draft law to be adopted remains an adequate piece of legislation, which introduces winter research into the country in the new era, exploits resources offered and is certainly welcome. Indeed, Minister, the ELIDEEC is not a simple institution that will manage resources. It is an institution which is in the direction of cultivating what we call'research culture'. In order for it to be able to become the small stone of an ambitious building, however, it needs continuity and consistency. It needs an entire legislative environment that will frame it. To date nothing in the way the government handles the challenges it is called upon to face cannot make us optimistic that it will succeed. The efforts of the Ministry are on the right track and the Deputy Minister is well known and has a vision of both research and innovation in our country. During the debate in the committee it showed an open mind to hear the comments and to accept the improvements we have proposed. But let me tell you, a cocoon is not enough to bring spring. Ladies and gentlemen, as a good effort, therefore, this draft law creates a modern process and ensures funding for the support of young scientists, young doctors, to overthrow - even temporary - the departure abroad of the largest national capital we have. In the debate on the committee, positive proposals and very useful ideas have been heard from all colleagues, such as the one on the creation of the repository of all the research programmes that are being drawn up, which are indeed stages of modernisation, and the Ministry is pleased that they have been included in its planning. An important issue that, without ideas and bumps, we need to see and decide, with a clear mind, in our common national interest, is the greater involvement of the private sector in research and innovation. Young scientists need it as much as the business world needs and it will be for Greece the feeder engine for research and innovation, which will take it much longer than 2018. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it will be a conquest for all of us and an example for our parliamentary life of reaching consensus, making all of us overcome from our dorms and seeing the Greek landscape with a clear eye, beginning with research. This draft law could signal a new concept of how the political system, the parties, is responding to the crisis. It could, if more thought like the Deputy Minister. We hope that he will succeed in overcoming the ideological intentions of his companions and frame the current legislation with measures to support it and ensure survival after the loan expires. In any case, this draft law provides an example of political consensus and gives a starting point for more and better political dialogue and, to a large extent, has been achieved by the approach of the Minister. Why, badly lies, the first and main responsibility for the style and tone of political confrontation lies with the government itself. And, as I said at the beginning, it is a pity that a cocoon cannot bring spring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you have the floor for a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u161	I would like to make a comment, not to say personal. I would like to thank them for the good words and Mr Mavrotas, who spoke earlier, and Mrs Kefalidou. However, I would also like to stress that there is a collegiality in the choices made by both the Ministry and the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u162	He's staying to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u163	That's all there is. He's there. Of course, every minister takes initiatives, but there is a collectiveity in the final choices and final formulation. So I think it is not right, no matter how honorable it is, to be attributed to a person all this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u164	Good. Thank you very much. We shall proceed with the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative, Christos Hadjisavvas, who has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Establishment of the Research and Innovation Foundation says the title of the bill, as if the IEK did not produce research. But, anyway, it is misleading because all the articles in it - I have not read anything about research and innovation - are talking about money, about money, about money, about euros and, ultimately, about management. However, this money, the funds and the euro will be made up of 180 million loans, which will be added to a debt that is so unbearable that every day you take new measures to an already overtaxed Greek people. And you'll ask him now to pay those too! Of course, only SYRIZA, the ANE, the New Democracy and the PASOK should normally participate in this bill, since it is clear who will share the cards again, who will manage the funds I mentioned before and of course who will build a larger and more stable party army for the next elections. But for now the SYRIZA and ANEL government are definitely the manager. For their management, one could say "the money in the bank", but lastly, cooperatively, new generations will not be able to go to something safe when they say that expression, so we understand what is going to happen. Some time ago, of course, there was still a bill, and we were talking again about committees for research and technology. Didn't you know that'd happen? Why didn't you put it together? There's no program? What happens do you solve it that day? He should have come to that bill and finished then. So today this bill, which has amendments that are greater than the entire bill and should have been made by itself in separate bills, has come. The Minister now, Philis, targeted - we have said so many times - degrades education, changes, falsifies, removes pieces of history, creates conflicts with Orthodoxy and Christianity, but nevertheless goes to the first inner-party elections in SYRIZA. Because, of course, this ethnicism, addiction, the selective anti-religious speech for Christians is not the friend, it is the whole SYRIZA. This is SYRIZA and it doesn't change any bills and vote in support of New Democracy. In this it does not change either by reconstructing or dialogue, but only by election, since all the executives in SYRIZA's reserves are like Phil. Of course, we have heard great opinions and opinions here. The New Democracy told us that the evil with socialism is that it ends when other people's money is over and then incarcerated capitalism comes and continues and does not stop even when other people's money is over. It continues in stores, business and homes of others, hides the news and lists of those jumping off the rooftops, though it has recently lost its first chair and SYRIZA where he held the banners for houses that would not be given to bankers and all that, I finally see nothing to do. Of course, there is also a crisis of conscience - one can say - from PASOK, which admitted that those who brought us into this position are coming to speak to us today. That's positive. You are probably referring to the governments of PASOK and New Democracy, and now of course PASOK, which is ruling through SYRIZA. Clearly, the positions of the Golden Dawn are those of these areas, namely which areas should research be subsidised and there should be real growth. Initial research on oil and gas management to enable households and businesses to have cheaper fuels, to have cheaper electricity. Research on oil, gas and natural resources must be developed so that we can give our farmers a real subsidy, since this will be real development rather than virtual ones. Because we're confused. We put the economy, which is theoretical and practical, and we have all been convinced that, if we have numbers in our booklets, we also have economic power and growth. If the supermarket shelves are empty, no matter how much money you have in your pocket, you can't feed your kids. But if you have a real production in the primary sector and you've got cultivation, you have livestock, you have fishing, and a euro not having in your pocket, your children will never be hungry. So these farmers do not need to be subsidised in the wrong way in the CFPs, which the European Union is making. They should be subsidized with real help. In other words, with Greek fuels, they will go to a very low price. Fertilizers, which will be produced from oil and gas, so that the farmer can produce the products, for which there will be a purchase to sell them rather than throw them at the dumpers. It should be subsidised and investigated for the pharmaceutical industry as well, so that there is a reduction in the state's budget, that the health system can be helped and that the state can finally provide free medicines and care to Greek citizens. Great steps must also be taken in military technology, which will greatly reduce the budget and will thus be able to absorb more funds in education, for example, and there will also be effective reinforcement of our national defence, as lately in our neighborhood, things are very dangerous and I am really afraid that international developments will bring us together. Finally, electronic and industrial technology, which, in addition to real development, should also become a large market, which will export products around the world and will not extinguish the minds that design the products and hands that make them. I am tempted to comment on some of the amendments as well, but I will leave it for tomorrow - especially those that exist, but also those that have been withdrawn, because we want to see what the development will be. But more generally, it is the following requirement. Since SYRIZA - ANEL co-government wants to help the country and education, in order to help education it will do well to leave it as it is and not to interfere with education at all and to help the country, we must resign and go to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u166	We move on to Mrs Eftathia Georgopoulos - Saltaris, a SYRIZA MEP, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns the establishment of a legal person entitled "Greek Research and Innovation Foundation", known as ELIDEK. The purpose of its establishment is to fund research programmes and to provide grants for research and innovation, which have been sufficiently analysed at the meetings of the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media in the course of the previous period. However, I cannot comment on the position of Members of the New Democracy and PASOK at the first meeting of the committee. Of course, this has also been the case, as we heard today from these two parties, from which we were waiting and hoped that they would recognise the outcome and the possibility of lending from the European Investment Bank and we thought we could reach agreement on some urgent development measures included in this bill. Do they really need such high tons? It proved then that the Minister was really working on what was said and received at meetings and included too many proposals and parties and bodies. So the ELIDEK is a reform of the Government in the field of research, innovation and development, in the direction of exploiting our country's scientific potential, a field that the private sector has largely ignored in previous years. To say some truths, the responsibilities which exist to a very large extent, where are they being identified? It is therefore responsible for the parasitic, interconnected entrepreneurship model supported by the previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which had as their characteristic State entrepreneurship along with the absence of added value, which is provided by research and innovation at sectoral and inter-sectoral level and by the model, summarised in the phrase, ‘the profits on the business and business risk on the back of the public and taxpayers’. These were the performance of once-out bipartisanism in the field of entrepreneurship, culminating in the most violent, concentrated time and volume of disinvestment after the war. Cumulatively we can say that it is EUR 65 billion by the end of 2014, which we have data. Of course, investment in research and innovation in such an environment could only withstand small businesses, while at the same time the public was in line with the above, having very low public investment and funding. About 0.5% of GDP set the research budget, when the European target is 3% by 2020. Today, it is the same bodies in this policy that have accused us of Sovietisation. Even in this bill, after the above-mentioned performance, however, they insist on calling themselves ‘the cuts of entrepreneurship’. The above confusion of counterpopulation is not random, but it is the result of a lack of strategy and a narrative. In the previous day's debate on education, the Head of the New Democracy said, on the one hand, that tertiary education should be liberated, with the entry of the private sector, and on the other hand, he said that we should only take out as many doctors as we need. A moment ago, Mr. Fortsakis said that the functioning of the ELIDEK is not guaranteed. So we don't do anything because it doesn't work out in the pineapple. We'll have to sit with our hands crossed. The Minister, however, has put things in place and put things in place exactly as they are. So, then, the bill - I am returning again - at the first meeting, at the same time, you accused that everything will be determined by the Ministry and that the institution will not have the necessary autonomy, while, on the other hand, it is not necessary to establish it, since there is already the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, which is, however, an organic structure of the Ministry. We have, on the one hand, a complete falsification of reality and, on the other, a lack of clarity. So we are criticising the critical and political deadlock. You told us that the Minister should not be in a supervised body, in a legal person governed by private law, and should have the right to raise a non-binding objection to a member of the administration. And the Minister accepted that. The major issue, in my view, is the country's high-skilled scientific potential. And that's where we need to focus. How did you support it? What did you do when the country was able to borrow cheaply from the markets? You didn't do anything. And today that we, with the knife in the neck and the budgetary suffocation and the committee that we inherited, managed to find an alternative source of targeted lending on very good terms, you guys are grouping on the fact that the terms of the contract had not been made public. Also, the fact that social sciences and basic research are not eligible fields in the new ESDP, for various reasons by 2020, you did not have a proposal. We are presenting this alternative plan with the institution, which can continue to finance these cognitive objects as well. Of course, if someone listens to your positions, they realize that research is just what can be exploited in production and industry. In words, of course. However, we also see to it that basic research is financed and that newly-private enterprises are subsidised, which will produce research results. Over the past years, and due to six years of autism in higher education, armies of young people have accumulated with doctoral and research ideas, which were seen - young scientists - everywhere opacity, flexible labour relations and blocks, bureaucracy. Instead of helping to have an environment where they can work on their ideas and offer for the good of the country abstractly their scientific research, you still say that this regime must be perpetuated. Our rapporteur, Mr Gavroglou, rightly described this as a tired force. These are, among other things, leaving abroad, for which in the words so much you are cut. We really have these young people, like every worker with flexible working relationships, have them in mind. In this generation we also invest in them, and that is why their problems guide our policies. Many of these postdoctoral students expected the possibility of being in charge of research teams in the funding standards provided by the European Research Centre. We are now doing this immediately and will be able, among other things, to choose and not to work on a block, but on a fixed-term contract and to enable them to work on their own ideas and to be their owners, as Members of the IGC can today. In many foreign countries, which so much you are advertising, a criterion for the quality and success of a research laboratory is, among other things, how many postdoctorals manage to become leaders of teams. Why didn't you really do that for so many years? Society sees and understands. I would like to refer to an excellent project by the Greek satellite of the University of Patras, UPSAT, which I do not have time to analyse, to see what Greek researchers can achieve in the Greek universities, as well as the provision of SEATRAC, which is again a product of research by the same university, the University of Patras, which highlights the social person that innovation can have. Finally, Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the question of TEI representation was dealt with at the general meeting of the EIDEEC. I am giving you an example of this from the Amalada TEI where the high-tech equipment of the territorial laboratory of the Geological Technology Department is an infrastructure that can help further development and important research, from which the primary sector in general and local production can benefit from its results and is considered to be a very promising lever for development for the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you to Mrs Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris, MP of SYRIZA. Mr George Stylos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill today: 'Greek Research and Innovation Foundation and other provisions'. I would like to make two general remarks before I go ahead and refer to the bill and the issues it raises and concerns. The first has to do with the environment in which we are in. Apparently, we are entering the heaviest and difficult economic winter of the period of crisis. Despite the constant sacrifices of the Greeks in recent years, we have basically been at point zero. SYRIZA - ANEL Government has turned the country back and what it expects as a target and aspiration for 2017 is to return to the financial data for 2014. Of course, all this at a huge cost to Greek citizens. What's that cost? Banks closed, third memorandum, measures on measures, repealing the ECHR, reductions in pensions and new reductions. Now, recently, what do we have? We have the revelations of the French President, Mr Holland, in relation to the government's request to print another currency in Russia, apart from the euro, if necessary for the country. The current government is exposed to these revelations, and we are here to remind them, because it was another mandate they had received from the Greek people. But it's their right. They're judged. Citizens judge us. I would also like to mention another issue, the completion of the first assessment. Last year in this Chamber, from this Step, top government officials assured that next month, late November 2015, the first assessment would be completed. We have arrived in October 2016 and the first evaluation has not yet been completed. You say that very soon, within the next two months, the second evaluation will be completed. We hope that, for the sake of the Greek people, the second assessment will be completed very soon. Sadly, however, you remind us of the student who is constantly coming and saying, "Give me an extension, Professor, to complete my work." He gets the extension and then he wants another extension and a second one and never ends. I now come to this bill. The government majority came with an announcement and told the committee that something very important and essential for research is being done, in relation to everything that had happened in the field of research and innovation in previous years. For our part, as a New Democracy, we said that we were opposed and, as the procedure has evolved in committee, you are giving us the arguments to say why we are essentially opposed. Because the bill brought it in hand. You are recommending an agency whose essence was to set up a general assembly, which will appoint a scientific council, which will do everything: it will make invitations, notices, evaluate proposals, evaluate objections. Everything will pass through this scientific board. Let us now see how this general assembly is being formed. You started at the beginning by excluding the country's TEIs. After our pressure, you had to retreat to the second reading. Just four, five days ago, the Minister retreated and comes and says the Minister will be the ESK what will judge and set the criteria with which those who have the prerequisites can participate in the general assembly. Today, once again, the Minister comes and retreates and says that the bodies participating in the General Assembly will be the universities and TEIs of the country and the research institutions, as described in Article 13a of Law No.4310/2014. The conditions set by the Minister are at least four research programmes in the actions of the NSRF 2007-2013, the ‘SECTION I, ARISTIA II’, the national ‘ERC Grant Skills’ and the ‘HORIZON 2020’ programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u170	We're in the transition phase. What else is going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u171	I would therefore like to say, Mr Minister, that there have been other programmes at universities and at TEIs, such as 'EAEC I and II' and 'ARTICLE I and II'. With this provision, as you bring it, I am afraid you are going to exclude all regional institutions in the country. Also, this is where the very important question arises: Did the Minister not know the criteria he wanted to introduce five days ago? How does he suddenly come and put them today, after our pressure, after the acute criticism of the Acoustic Opposition, from New Democracy and the representatives of the country's technological educational institutions? So, Minister, you are giving us the impression that you are making a decision on how to set up such a very important organisation that the country needs him very much. I would also like to ask some other questions that I have put to the committee: why does this body have to be different from the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology? In fact, this question has not been answered. Why does it have to be a loan? Set up an organisation. Is there a business plan for the management of this organisation? Is there a business plan? Who's gonna pay the bill in the end? We will add 240 million to the Greek taxpayers' back, which the future generations will pay for. Is there a performance? How is it counted, Minister, by this agency? What is the Agency's revenue in relation to its viability? The agency will work for three years and from there, and we don't know what will happen. You are more critical of what has happened over the past few years and of the money that has been given for research and innovation, but you are not making any self-criticism about what has happened, now that you are managing this agency, which you have introduced over the last fifteen days. I am not talking about criticism of the delay you have presented in the invitation and in the opening of new programmes by the ESRB for the last one and a half years that you have the governance of the country. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I would also like to ask the following question: what will happen to this body? Academics will be involved. So will universities come to finance papers and enrich their curriculum vitae? What is the relationship of this organization with entrepreneurship, with the labour market, with what the Greek economy needs today? We're in economic crisis, we're in recession. We are all aware of this, but we are all judged by the actions and actions that we are doing, Minister, to get away from the stagnation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Madam President, I'll be done. I want to make a review of you. You mentioned the results of the survey - and I am closing down, Madam President - which appeared in 2015, which said we had increased from research and innovation to GDP by 0.17% in 2015. You are well aware, Minister, that all comparisons and results relate to previous years. Therefore, they are obviously reported in the period 2011-2014. Because you compared the results in 2011. You will be judged, Minister, after three years, in 2017. That is where we will see if we have an increase in GDP. Madam President, thank you very much. Tomorrow, I reserve to respond to the individual and to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give Mrs Gennaia the floor from SYRIZA, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and students, as well as three teachers from the Libanian School of Fiftidas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Genias, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, can I speak for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u174	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u175	I would like to make an intervention in what Mr Stylus said. Tomorrow we really can talk to each other to an extent. In any case, I have been offered to the Committee on Morphic Affairs to make a presentation of the overall development plan. What I wanted to tell you in relation to TEIs is that it is something that was agreed with the TEIs themselves. It was agreed with representatives, with the Bureau of the Session. I'm talking about the case of the transitional period. The ELIDEK must function immediately, resources must be provided directly to the research community and the academic community. As we said, the matter is urgent, it can't wait. We have urgent conditions. So something needs to be done. So, at the first general meeting, which will be at one, a year and a half - I do not remember how we have it - there we set certain criteria, based on research programmes relating to their content, to the programmes serving the ELIDEEC. That's why we didn't put "ARCHIMIDIS" or anything else or other technological programs, which would put in other bodies. That does not mean any discrimination. Indeed, as far as I remember - I do not remember exactly - it is six, seven TEIs, which are there and some universities that come out. It's a transitional phase. There is no withdrawal, and it was something that had been discussed with the representatives of the TEIs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u176	Here, Mrs. Genias, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u177	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law establishing the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation. This bill creates for the first time a special legal person to fund research programmes in Greece. Why is this step important? Because we are once again aiming at strengthening by every means and available resource the country's productive forces, because we are trying, despite the adverse conditions, to encourage the new generation to remain at its place, because we are aiming at the country's healthy and long-lasting development with modern tools and a look at the future, because we are supporting people with visions and capabilities that can offer significant benefits. The purpose of this Foundation is mainly to finance research programmes and to provide scholarships in the context of the National Strategy for Research and Innovation. Beneficiaries of funding will be the HEIs and the public research and technological institutions of our country. In the first phase, it will manage funds of EUR 240 million, which will come from financing from the European Investment Bank. These are therefore additional resources that will come to be summed up throughout the effort to strengthen the new development model that we are seeking to establish in a series of legislation that run alongside the instruments of the ESDP or state funding. The government's political will is firmly blamed on the philosophy of combining and strengthening the development model, with research and innovation. The ELIDEK is therefore the culmination of an effort to revise research, innovative actions and to stimulate the activity of young and worthy scientists, in which the newly voted nr.4386/2016 contributed decisively. And this law aims to support, upgrade and enhance the country's research human resources and the quality of research, in circumstances of crisis and austerity that prevail. Unfortunately, in recent years, the country's best research potential, at the most productive age, has been consumed in labour wandering, cancelled by the stress of survival or mentally mutilated by prolonged unemployment. The evidence is relentless and heartfelt. Greece, in addition to a quarter of its national wealth, lost between 2010 and 2013 a hundred and thirty-five thousand young scientists at the edge of their productive age, with 70% even having postgraduate and doctoral qualifications. Therefore, the establishment and operation of the institution is not only aimed at implementing a national research strategy but also at restoring the country's chosen new scientific capacity abroad. It is therefore an additional decisive step towards addressing this scourge. The aim is to replace Brain Drain with Brain Circulation. It is estimated that more than four thousand young scientists will have benefited by the end of the program. And all of this will happen with full transparency and merit, as the institution will have administrative and financial self-sufficiency, its structure will be independent of those of the Ministries and will be defined without intervention or on-the-spot checks. Its financial operation and financing of research programmes will be carried out on the basis of the principles of excellent academic performance, transparency, dignity and sound financial management. The financing rules will be simple and free of bureaucratic procedures, always with the aim of safeguarding the public interest. The institution shall not be subject to regional criteria and quotas as applicable to the resources of the NRV. This complementarity will allow the best and most effective use of available resources, which is necessary in the conditions of crisis that the country is experiencing today. In any event, the objective of scientific quality and excellence will be non-negotiable. For all I have said, therefore, I fully support this draft bill, because I believe that its forthcoming establishment opens up new prospects for the development of an integrated strategy that will support the research that will be carried out in universities, TEIs and research centres throughout the country and strengthens the country's development path. I am trying, ladies and gentlemen, to justify your words and actions. I have been led to a conclusion: You have killed your conscience. That's why you're saying and you're doing all you've been doing this lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u178	Thank you. Three other Members will speak, because a number of people have been written. I now give the floor to Mr Spartin for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you would think that discussing a draft law on research and innovation would be the subject of a softer and wiser, I would say, positioning on the side of the New Democracy, a more profound debate on the subject of this draft law. And in this debate on this draft law, however, New Democracy, in obeying the political tactics of recent months, which we do not know for how long it will last to be able to use, had a catalytic negative position. She reminded me - she helped with this and her rapporteur's explosive tapera - the line from an old Greek movie, Sappho Notaras, when she shouted "Bourloto!" I do not know whether the New Democracy colleagues can handle these materials properly, but I would ask them to be careful, because sometimes they can put fire on their shoes without wanting to do so. On the other hand, small parties who considered the bill to be positive and spoke positive at the outset, such as Potami and the Democratic Alliance, felt their obligation to devote very much of their positions to conquering the government on various other issues, notwithstanding the subject we are discussing today. I do not know whether this was because they considered it to be a duty not to be exposed too much to the New Democracy, so that, by saying a positive word about a government bill, they must at the same time say too many other negative things about the government as a whole. But what is the draft law we are debating today, so we can talk about the substance? Very briefly, as fund titles, I would say that these funds of EUR 240 million available for this first three years will go exclusively to funding candidates' scholarships, support for scientists at postdoctoral level, funding of research programmes for teachers and researchers of all levels, upgrading of scientific equipment at the AITs and research institutions, actions to promote science in society, direct notice of more than two hundred 50 grants for candidates for doctoral candidates, lasting from one to three years with a monthly grant of EUR 900, direct notice of research projects before the end of 2016 for postdoctors, lasting between two and three years with a maximum total of 200,000 euros per project and following the establishment of the EIF, a notice of research actions for members of ADIs and researchers, lasting two or three years of standard cost of 250,000 euros, to know what the key points we are discussing. As a result of these actions, more than four thousand scientists will benefit from these actions in the first three years of the Institute's operation. We are talking about a tool to halt the departure of young scientists abroad, to maintain here in the country the most important capital of the Greek economy, of human capital. Research and, above all, its funding is a foundation for its knowledge and development and one of the foundations of the country's development and productive reconstruction. The draft law, as our rapporteur, Costas Gavroglou, rightly said, wants to draw up such a perspective. He doesn't want to manage the crisis. It is a draft law that wants to see in the next day after the crisis and some who don't think there might be a next day, it would be good if at least they didn't put a brothel on the foundations of this effort. Through workshops, both our modern culture and the quality of life we have today came up. This has been done in many cases within the capitalist economy, because research and science have produced results that have had social benefit and have been implemented with social benefit, even though they have acted within a capitalist environment. If we say that while we have capitalism we should not try to take advantage of the positive results of knowledge and research. If we support and say 'Research will we speak now? Let it be socialism first and then we talk about it." We have a radically opposite view of this. However, research is not something that will result in determinalism in a direct or even profitable way. This is why the private initiative is very little involved in countries such as Greece, with the low private and many up to now state-dependent production potential. Other funds called on the State to distribute through the General Secretariat of Research and Technology have, by the nature of their funding from European funds, important heresy points. This does not allow for a national research policy beyond European directives and guidelines. And that's what we need to find another way to get through this. That's what makes this draft law. In addition, no funding is planned to date outside the framework of smart qualifications. There is also no provision for any of these humanitarian science programmes, a sector in Greece that could and should have growth and would have significant effects, which would be useful, and only for those who are interested in 'what will remain in the fund', would have left a positive impact on the fund. So there are other hereticisms that are trying to overcome this draft law, such as the limitations on European programmes relating to regionality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Just these issues come to be addressed by the ELIDEEC, in particular the implementation of a national strategy for research and innovation, without anouncing, as has already been explained, the role of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology. Finally, very importantly, management will belong to the educational and research institutions themselves, which will democratically allocate resources to finance both research activities and healthy business activities that will exploit the results of the research. To conclude, I would like to say to those who are concerned about the conditions of lending, what it costs, how much we will pay and why this lending took place, that this lending, as the people say, will 'take up their money', because it will go in particular to actions that we will know which are and we will know where the resources go and how they are controlled. This lending has nothing to do with sea-loving, which many so far had become accustomed to operating and having them in their minds, and which will have to worry about when and how they will be repaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you. Now Mr. Excellency has the floor. The last speaker will be Mr Sevastakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill from the Ministry of Education and Research. Once again, as was the case with the previous one, hypocrisy and the perversion operation from the standpoint of counter-population is more than enough. Today's bill was discussed in detail in the House's Committee on Education, in which we had the opportunity, by listening to the rapporteur and other Members of the New Democracy, to find out for a long time what sound arguments mean, directed at inconsistency and causing deliberate confusion. I note this because I have to say that I did not expect such a reaction to a bill attempting to establish a new body in the standards of other national research funding agencies. I am not going to say, for a piece of legislation that bears a heavy ideological seal, a distinct political and ideological mark, such as that which does not allow consent and agreements. It is about setting up an institution similar to what exists internationally, and indeed, in advanced research countries, to finance research. And one would expect a more constructive attitude of the Officerial Representation, which is similar to that demonstrated by other smaller parties in the Opposition. Instead, we heard once again the triumphant accusations that we were trying to create a new category of hostages, but also vagueness about micro-participatory purposes and other post-court targets, perhaps because you were used to your day. On the one hand, you have described the ELIDEC as a ministerial minister, because the Minister will maintain a surveillance. On the other hand, you have told us that the establishment of the ELIDEEC is inappropriate, since there is the Secretariat for Research and Technology, which can take over all the funding and that this General Secretariat is a service structure of the Ministry, with the Secretary-General and the Minister above. One in the nail and one in the hood! It remains to be wondered what you want at last: to keep things the way they are, not to change anything, not to try to stop bleeding from fleeing from Greek scientists abroad? What recital of paradoxes is that? In your need to make an opposition at all costs, eat and contradict, colleagues of the New Democracy, and continuously abide by a bill that the entire research community accepts. Colleagues, with today's bill, there is an important step to upgrade and develop the country's human resources. The establishment of the ELIDEC opens up new prospects for an integrated research strategy conducted at universities, TEIs and research centres in the country. We want to revive research and facilitate the development of a real knowledge-based economy that will contribute to the country's productive reconstruction. The NSRFs are good, ladies and gentlemen, but the NSRFs have limitations and contagion, they have bureaucracy, they have regional quotas. The NPT does not finance social, economic, humanitarian sciences. They do not finance what we call clean research, which results from scientific curiosity. We want to support both types of research and the market-related one, which has a horizon of two to three years and the one that has to do with scientific curiosity. The ELIDEK is about scientific curiosity and the ESRB is about the national market. That is why we say that we are making a national policy and mentioning both of them together. It has been argued that this is a mortal institution, because it was created, it says, only because the loan contract was with the European Bank and to manage the money that will flow over the next three years for research into the country. "And then what?" you wondered some. We are seeking - and this is what we are introducing in this bill - a long-term institutional intervention, a radical change in the way and means of research, by effectively handing over this responsibility to the people who serve it, to the scientific community itself. As the Minister pointed out, our aim is to support the "fuel" for what we say growth and the "fuel" that is human beings, is the knowledge that people produce through research. That's what this bill does. What will happen after three years will depend on the results we have achieved, otherwise there is provision for continuing this type of borrowing on exceptional terms, which is also for a very good purpose. It is neither for maritime loans nor for other projects of a type that have been done and which have been constantly changing the terms of borrowing. I would like to refer to a few adjustments to the bill by some articles. Article 3 refers to the direct payment of the loans to a special account with the Bank of Greece, thereby ensuring transparency in the management of the institution's resources. There are a number of safeguards in Article 4 which ensure transparency, compulsory maintenance of documents, the preparation of an annual financial statement, the regular audit by two sworn accountants, as well as an extraordinary check at any time the Minister deems necessary. The Foundation will have financial and administrative autonomy and will be supervised by the Minister. According to the standards of other national research funding organisations, the structure of ELIDEEC will be independent of that of the Ministries and will be defined by their potential beneficiaries, i.e. the IMIs and research centres, without interventions or overriding options. How else should it be done? Colleagues, the establishment and functioning of the institution may create added value not in direct economic terms, but certainly add value to new human scientific potential, but also to a research result that will help the reconstruction of our country so necessary. As for the criticism from the New Democracy and the PASOK, it is only sufficient to remember that every recommendation of such organisations in the past found scandals, client-occupation and opaque arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with a more general political point on the subject of the environment in which public debate and political debate are taking place, since SYRIZA has taken over governance. This is the first time that a government has to fight against it every day with great vigour in the entire media system, the established political class, business and economic interests that have been uncontrolled for years. It is only for one day to see TV or to browse the Internet to realize that this is not a political period of the usual. The attack has taken on the dimensions of a totalitarian war. I would particularly like to emphasise the political controversy between the political forces. The spirit and style of abusive expressions have reached a peak of degrading and this role, unfortunately, has also been taken up by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, from New Democracy to the JRC. In this climate, I would like to state our will, demonstrating the right morality, that the MPs of the Partnership remain unscrupulously and committed to our goal, unaffected by all kinds of misappropriated criticism, because we are part of this historic project and will bring the best result for the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much. The last speaker is Mr Sevastakis. Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much. I would like to express my surprise that such a serious bill does not have much popularity or does not have the high interest of many colleagues. I would like to say that, on the pretext of this bill, precisely because of its seriousness, the ideological divisions that run the political body and the groups are expressed, but also the perceptions of the groups and sometimes cross them. One view, expressed by the parties, especially the urban area and the New Democracy, considers research as a mechanism by which the market can be elected. It is an awkward view, because there is no market. We know that very well. Greece has financed the thought, organized reflection, both in the research and in the field of education, while the market has a huge backwardness and as a quality and as a system of questionnaires. So one reading is that. He tried to mitigate it in his speech by Mr Fortsakis, but the hegemony view is that the research fact must be carried out at the request of the wishes of the market, as if the market were a self-regulatory entity which is evolving, asking questions and calling on the various thinking mechanisms to respond to these questions in line. The other view, the other ideological view, was expressed very clearly by the Communist Party of Greece and expressed at every opportunity. It's that the investigation cannot be substantiated in the capitalist context. In other words, within the framework of the capitalist development, research cannot be dominated. I found that word. However, I have not heard a clear answer. The third view expressed by this bill, like the previous ones - and I hope for the next, Mr Fotakis - is that research is a self-worthy process, that is to say, a process which justifies its productive character and its value. In other words, research is defined as a mechanism by which overall consciousness can organise its questions. From this point of view, I think he is trying to compose the other readings and readings of the New Democracy or the urban area. However, with a completely different market assessment and market concept, the investigation orders and forms the market, does not give rise to market forces. The research itself, whether in its educational dimension or in incomplete research, puts questions, orders, guides, educates the market. This aggressive outward version of the investigation seems to me to be one of the important elements of the bill. The other side is that there is an understated internal popularity, because when you manipulate research from the single-dimensional market orders, I think that you give it what it really has: the resettlement as a popular estate, as a public asset. I think that the resumption of public space, that is, of thinking, and the impact of research on reality, both deeds exist in the intentions of the bill. In that sense, therefore, I would expect the discussion to be hemorrhised in the minds of colleagues, I would expect it and I would like it. I hope that there will be a debate tomorrow at the next part-session. Now, universities are about as spaces of one, say, speech, a voice field, and less as spaces where pure research is produced. I think that the bill recommends a system by which all this unscrupulous and scorpion - if you like - research produced can be compiled, cross-checked and thus create a substrate of great research intensity that we really need as a country. Furthermore, this is also true of the fact that it is trying to reintroduce the unregulated spiritual material we have, the new spiritual people who are unrelenting and out of the system - the positions are taken! - and who are fleeing abroad, trying to relegate them and reinstate them as organic parts of a society, which, anyway, and under the conditions of a dark crisis, has been shattered. In conclusion, I would like to say that the questions which have been raised and which will continue to be raised are urgent, not only for reasons of party conflict, but above all because there is a question of historical orientation in our country, in our area and in our people. And I think that so, with this open view, we need to see it, deal with it and stand against it, join us in the face of it, reviewing our own spiritual luggage and our own moral dilemmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you. Minister, would you like to say something about why the debate is closed today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u185	To thank all the speakers for their contribution. A lot of what has been heard has been taken into account. It was particularly interesting how ideological differences emerged and it is very important that this should be done. For us the product of research is one, knowledge. And knowledge has a multiple character. First of all, knowledge as a selfishness broadens the spiritual horizons of society, which should not be ignored at all. Secondly, knowledge can support the current economy, but at the same time transform the economy that comes. I think a little - too much this confuses what we are trying to do. And because I know that at least from the point of view of Officership the concept of entrepreneurship is made clear with a usefulness approach, which does not even serve the purpose that he is supposed to serve, namely the purpose of entrepreneurship, I would like to close very soon - since you give me the opportunity - with a very characteristic history, which I do not know if you have heard of before. When known physicist Faraday did experiments at Cambridge on electricity in the mid-19th century, he was visited by the then Prime Minister of England, Lord Palmerston, who in the well-known inflammatory way looked at him and said: "What is the usefulness of these things you do here?" He came into a lab, saw wires, etc. and he said, "What use does all this have?" Faraday looks at him and said to him: "Look at him as a newborn, one day you will tax it." And it was the question of electricity. And we know what's going on with PPC today. And that is what we call 'the transformation of the economy' is what we say 'the research that comes from scientific curiosity'. There are many other examples and many other stories. I hope until 2019-when is it! - to have a chance to talk to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs bill: 'Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u195	The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions" was approved in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the parliamentary control, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on October 14, 2016, a criminal case for the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolao Friendy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u196	We are entering the agenda of the QUESTIONS Only two questions will be discussed at today's sitting. The second, with number 65/10-10-2016, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the resolution of the problem created by the implementation of Law 4412/2016 setting out new rules for the award, award and performance of public contracts, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. Also, it will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Helena Kountoura, the first with number 77/11-10-2016, a top-level question for the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left coalition to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the completion of the work of the Marina Messology. The fifth will now be discussed under No 84/11-10-2016 topical question by the Member of the Parliamentary of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems at the Centre for the Health of Moires of the Municipality of Faistos Heraklion Crete. The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos. Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in June 2015 we discussed the problems of subsistence and subsistence of the Centre for Moires Health, the Polyvalent Doctor of Tymbakis, the shortages of logistics and serious building problems. You told us that, in fact, the problems are the way we told you and, in your opinion, would justify a more upgraded primary care structure with better staffing and more specialties. Today, however, almost a year and a half later, the situation remains the same, as if it did not last a day. In particular, of the twenty-four organic posts in doctors, there are sixteen gaps, eight of which are pathologists, while for the remaining staff of the fifty-nine organic posts, the gaps are thirty-four, while at least five nursing nurses and other staff serve other health centers and needs in the context of travel, movements, which, of course, have been produced in your basic policy. This hypotension, therefore, has caused very serious problems. In fact, some parts cannot function. The microbiological department is being closed. The microbiologist couldn't have been appointed and moved to the hospital. In the radiology department there is no radiologist, as well as for physicotherapists. In the health center while there was a supersounder, he was taken by the healthcare district and he was released elsewhere. Also, there are problems in the lock room and the telephone. They are unable to take the shifts and are forced by doctors and nurses, the newspaper, that is, personal, to play this role as well. The working conditions of workers are exhaustive and, in addition, their safety and integrity are often threatened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the building is concerned: It has been found inappropriate since 1998 and is used under the responsibility of the workers since they have no choice. There has been a promise for a long time, but nothing has been done about the building until at least today. The Multivalent Tymbakis Medical School faces similar problems. It only works until noon, and there is a curator I of the Gregory’s Doctorhood who also covers Tymbaki, especially when he is licensed or on the day off of the multivalent doctor. Dramatic is the image of the Childcare Center with Special Needs where there are no doctors, pediatricians, cleaners. The EMCDDA also has a serious problem. There's no ambulance. Especially in the summer, during the tourist season, the problems are serious. You are therefore asking yourself, Minister, for the second time after a year and a half: Firstly, why have you not implemented the commitments you yourself have told us that within a reasonable period of time you will implement? Secondly, how and with what binding timetable will the necessary recruitments of permanent medical, nursing and auxiliary personnel be made to fill the posts at the Centre for the Health of Moires and the Polyvalent Doctor of Tymbaki in order to stop these emblematic movements of the health centre? Thirdly, will you adequately finance by the State the full and adequate supply of the health centre to medicines, vaccines, health, consumables, ultrasound, reagents and others? Finally, when will the required and appropriate building infrastructure of the Centre for Health of Moires, the Polyvalent Medical Tymbaki, finally proceed with state care and funding? Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u198	I hope in dentistry you're accurate. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u199	My dear colleague, I obviously have no intention of dismissing my last year's position. Indeed, the area covered by the Centre for the Health of Moires is too great and there are increased needs. We have made an effort to upgrade the Polypowerful Regional Tymbaki Hospital. We have added another position of a rural doctor, which was announced at the last invitation of agricultural doctors throughout the country, and we have also announced a position of qualified general doctor in these seven hundred sixty posts that we have announced throughout the country, a permanent doctor of the ESS. The gaps are important. But there's been a lot of moves to the Moore Health Center. They're not just servants. As I was informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 11 more people have been moved, staff, who have strengthened - beyond twenty-three - all specialties other than doctors who serve. In doctors, the picture has significant deficits, especially with regard to general doctors - pathologists. There's the big gap. However, there are several important specialities. There's a pediatrician, there's a cardiologist, there's a dermatologist. These were former EEA doctors who were then moved to the health center. There are three dentists. As far as the laboratories to which you have referred are concerned, there is no such picture, that is to say, that it is going to be closed. Where does that come from? There's a manufacturer and there's a biochemical in the lab. Of course, there was also an ancillary microbiologist who, for operational reasons and on the grounds of on-call needs, was moved to Venizelos. But the lab works properly. We have no picture of shortages in reagents and consumables. Respectively, the X-ray lab works as well. Besides, we know that almost all the radiological laboratories of the country's health centres operate without a radiologist. They're operating with pilots. The picture, then, is that the basic needs of laboratory support and staffing with critical specialities are covered. Obviously, precisely because the population reference of the health centre is quite important and very large, it needs additional support. We hope that the positions which we are calling for at the present time, of agricultural doctors, will be covered by qualified general doctors. In any case, we are in a phase where there is an additional contract notice of about two thousand specialists as a whole for the health system, of which a very important piece will be in primary care. So far all the burden has been placed on the hospitals and rightly so. There last year was the great pressure, that was the great demand. The primary care stayed a little back. With the stabilisation that we have achieved in the operation of hospitals and with the strengthening of their funding now we have room for progress with faster steps - we have said this and a recent topical question - planning for primary care, strengthening current structures and rural-type health centres. Under funding it remains in the health system, but the six-year downward trend in budgets has been halted. You must recognize that. For the first time after six years we have had increased funding for the public health system. In primary care from 112 million in the 2015 budget, this year is 150 million. We have increased from 12 million to 20 million the budget for subsidiary doctors in primary care, we have hired too many and we have covered gaps in too many health centres in the country. Especially for the 7th Ministry of Foreign Affairs the budget for primary care from 2.195,000, which was in 2015, has gone to 2.7 million this year. So the question is not whether all needs have been met. Evidently they can't cover themselves directly. The question is whether we are moving in one direction to support and improve the health system. I think that what, which is reflected as a reality now and not as an announcement and is felt in the daily lives and of the workers in the health system and also of the citizens, is a gradual, difficult, slow, tortureous but gradual improvement of this everyday life.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u200	Generally speaking, in time, we're all crowded. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you too realise that the size of the problems for such a health centre, which covers all of Messara and a very large part of the Rethymnon Prefecture, cannot be covered by what you said a moment ago, namely by the recruitment of two doctors, one at the Polyvalent Tymbakis, etc., or, in any case, that you promise to be done in the future. That's what you promised a year and a half ago. Generally, however, the announcements give you and they take! But beware: I told you that microbiological leads to closure. And I reasoned with you. Biochemical retires. The microbiologist couldn't have been appointed and moved to the hospital. Hey, tell me, how will the microbiological work? It is a very practical matter. In the radiology I told you there was no radiologist, while one of the two operators serves other health centers and the other can't take advice and people are forced to appeal to the private doctor. And there are so many other things, that is what I said to you, which you have not answered enough or other issues that you have not answered at all. I'll tell you what I have. In fact, I will also submit to the Minutes a report on problems relating to health problems in Messara by bodies and citizens of Messara. That is exactly what the problems are. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned reference, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, what you have done in this year and a half has been this: after the notice of the 7th Health Region, a cleaner with a cleansing contractor took office and, secondly, the competition of the successors of the 1998 AACC has been appointed by two managers, who have not yet taken over. That's what you've done. You've done nothing else. From there on, promises are another matter. You know, when promises continue forever, sometimes they end up making fun of themselves. The announcements, not for recruitment, etc., have also lost their value from one point to another. The Prime Minister announced yesterday ten thousand doctors and nurses in the U.S.S., who are, of course, a drop in the ocean, because the real deficiencies are far greater. Thirty thousand nurses are required. I would remind you of the four thousand nursing and paramedical staff you promised, of course, concerning public work and having a duration of 12 months. And then what? Nothing at all. Again the same situation. You had announced three thousand total staff - doctors, nurses, midwife, social workers, visitors of health - to strengthen primary health care. I inform you that from 2012 to 2014, doctors decreased by about five thousand in health centers and EOPYY. Of course, today is even worse. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition to this, can the problems be solved by transferring or hiring ancillary personnel or by public service workers? Aren't these condoms? Is that what primary health care needs today? I am not going to place myself on the announcements you have made about the model of primary health care, which is a scorpion of local health points, which simply provide some kind of primary health care and is completely in line with the manifesto of the comparator of the Association of Healthcare Companies, which is the direction of the European Union and which, of course, serves to serve the non-wage costs - because that is where the bell is ringing - and it is also about patients, it is also about doctors, and it is about other staff. Therefore, the emblematic solutions do not solve the problems, and every year and a half, which we will come here, the situation will be even worse. That is why we are telling you very clearly that to demand today for the people - and it is, if you will, demand this JRC - to develop fully a state model with a completely free health and primary health care system, with health centres with full staff, doctors of other specialties, family doctors, etc., which meets the real people's needs twenty-four hours a day and not a few hours a day, which is your model, of course, a conflict with the requirements, with the policies, with the European Union's directives, which are perfectly harmonised health policy and with the government's policy as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u202	Come on, Mr. Synhonaki, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u203	And of course we call on the world in conflict with this policy that is currently under way, which is a division of poverty and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u204	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u205	We've been through it many times. The political plan of conscious abandonment, depreciation and dismantling of public care is over. A deregulation plan of the ESS and the assignment of its functions to the private sector, as it existed throughout the previous memorandum period, does not exist. And that cannot be called into question. There is a systematic attempt to fill a place, of course, from the huge gaps. We are fighting a great battle with time and with the strengths of people and the health system and, of course, the citizens. The first permanent workers after six years have been hired and currently working in hospitals. Just to understand which state we are dealing with, and what public administration, the announcement was made last year, in mid-October 2015, and is now being completed, after a year. At this rate the recruitment system works not only for doctors, but also for the rest of the staff. For doctors, things are even worse. I have said so many times: even if we were to be able to proclaim all the empty organic positions in the public health system at the same time, at the pace of the procedures, we would like a decade to take them. And we have a responsibility, of course, to change this system. And we have opened a serious dialogue with hospital doctors to go to another model of crisis in the health system, which will, of course, ensure dignity and objectivity, but at the same time speed up the procedures. The debate on empty organic positions in the health system makes no sense. There were no organic positions before the crisis and before the Memorandum. Never were all positions in the public health system covered. Functional gaps are the issue and in fact, in the last six years there has been a gradual bleed of human resources due to retirement without replacement. We're slowly dealing with this. There is a second set of recruitments of six hundred people, nurses and other staff. It follows her annex, a thousand more two hundred. I also told you earlier that we are planning a new, large aid with two thousand permanent ESS doctor posts. This aid to the public health system has been massively supported for 15 years. That's the truth. It has not been implemented yet. Sure. We are at a stage of implementation, but I think that the trend and the political signal have been given. Sub-financing is beginning to be reversed. Of course, there are budgetary constraints. There's the medium-term that we've raised it. We increased 300 million in the previous government's medium-term in terms of financing the operational costs of the National Health System. And these four thousand recruitments, which we will be doing in 2017, with twelve-month contracts, are obviously not the last solution that we would like to do, but are a major human resources injection that will give us breath and room to complete the planning of permanent recruitments. Without the completion of all recruitments for intensive treatment units through CEDEFOP, we have opened fifty closed intensive beds. Two hundred went to fifty closed. And in the Lefkanoped that there's a list of fifty-five, they went to thirty-two. These are appreciable improvements in people's daily lives. In the "Save" with an intervention from the administration in the past few days, 12 closed intensive beds were opened in three special units. Then, from a period of known depreciation and abandonment, the climate is slowly reversed. Obviously, needs are more and obviously there are problems. The easiest thing in this country is to highlight the problems in the health system. And there are problems everywhere in the EKA. With these four thousand recruits and only one driver hired, we will have two ambulances on shifts in the region, one on average and one on average, which is now. It is not the case that the EAW does not meet the needs. There is an EKT sector in Moires, which covers the wider region. The building problem is a decade-old case. In 2008, there was a study showing that there were static problems. There has been an entire NSRF without serious intervention, when the Public Investment Programme and the MSF infrastructure programme have been sufficient. Now we have the next ESDP 3⁄4 to be occupied by ongoing projects. Of course, if the Seventh Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Region of Crete manage to have a discount on the projects that they will incorporate, we will also find a way to meet this need. There is an implementation study of about seven hundred thousand euros. I think we can do this in order to solve the building issue as well and to make the housing and operation of the health centre much safer. I am not saying anything else - and I am ending this - and we do not want to make things look good. We have no reason to do that. People know the situation in their daily lives. You are talking about 'blocks'. After six years of systematic "blowing" and "bumping" is of importance. These interventions we are doing have a coherent element. They give priority to public care. They reorganise the public system focusing on primary care. What you're saying doesn't come from anywhere. The model we promote and hope that we will be able to legislate within 2016 is a modern model of decentralised primary care structures. It works extremely well in many countries of Europe, such as Portugal, but also in other countries, including northern countries, in Scotland, in Scandinavian countries. It's based on the family doctor. It offers universal, equal and quality care. This is the answer to the health systems crisis today and not, of course, a model of delegating functions to the private sector, which we neither believe nor serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Minister. The third, with number 61/10-10-2016, timely question for the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the calculation of the main pensions of the Naval Anti-Fraud Fund (NAT), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth under number 44-10-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleighis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the submissiveness of the Serre Police Directorate, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister, Mr. Toska, on account of unreported obligations. The second, with number 66/10-10-2016, a top-circuit question of Parliament's second Athens Athens, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the request to cover the empty organic positions of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, will not be discussed due to a meeting in the Maximos Concert Hall on the legislative work. The fourth under number 85/11-10-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Health on the operating problems of the Anticancer Hospital "Theatre" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. Finally, the third question, with number 62/10-10-2016, of the second question of Evia MP, the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred nine hundred Greek children from nursery stations", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Kouroubllis due to unsuccessful obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u207	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u208	What do you want, Mr. Jelloney?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u209	Madam President, I would like to say that they are ordinary ministers to have miserable obligations, but Members must be notified. I was not informed by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Toska, nor was my parliamentary group informed that my timely question will not be discussed today. I believe that this was a deliberate step downwards in the parliamentary control of the Member of Parliament on the part of the Minister. If that's possible! I'm a member of the district...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u210	And obviously you're here for that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u211	And I wasn't even informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u212	Here, according to information from the Bureau, your parliamentary group was informed in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u213	The Group of the European People's Party has not been informed, I have now risen up, nor have I been personally informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u214	We have the names to give you. Don't talk in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u215	I had another timely question to the Minister for Rural Development, but I was informed. It seems that Mr Toskas considers parliamentary control unnecessary. There's no other explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u216	The procedure is for the Secretariat to inform the parliamentary group, because we cannot hunt Members because they obviously have jobs or the mobiles closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u217	The Group of the European People's Party has not been informed either. I'm telling you this responsibly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u218	We have the evidence here. Come from the Bureau to give them to you, the name of the man from your parliamentary group, which we contacted and the time when we contacted. However, I am sorry, because as you know at the new summit, we are being informed as a Bureau and all the officials and the Secretary-General of the Government why deferrals are made, by what ministers and what is the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u219	I think that is a good thing, because if we have such behaviour by the ministers to the Members, then we cannot do the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u220	No, that's what we're saying. We are very careful about this issue. However, come and be informed, and we apologize. We continue with the first with number 78/11-10-2016 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastasios Kourakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need to re-establish the single price of the book. The Minister will answer Mr. Aristides Baltas. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we know, we agree, I know your opinion since you were Minister of Education, about the importance you give in the book, as it is a basic cultural and educational asset. Accessing the book is not a luxury. It is the right of every citizen and the obligation of the state. In order to do this and to be accessible and attractive to everyone, the restrictions on a so-called free market should be lifted. The single book price we know is a book priced and promoted system, where the publisher sets a price. All bookshops sell the book at the same price and this is a protection of the book, which was applied in 1997 to Greece by Law 2557 in the pattern of existing French legislation. The purpose of this arrangement is to overthrow phenomena of unfair competition and to distribute to the public books published in Greece. In 2014, however, the abolition of the single book price took place, resulting in a terrible deterioration in the quality book and small bookshops, which are cultural sites, in danger of disappearing. Great interests and spaces, where there are other objects and goods, also move low-priced books, mainly eucalyptus books, the so-called 'best sellers', thus deporting the quality book. The purpose of my question is also related to the commitment we made as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group when we were in the opposition, which we had tabled a request to the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs to lift this 2014 legislative act and to have the single book price again. Furthermore, I would remind you that the current Prime Minister and then the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, at an event held by the Library and Publishers Association, was committed to being able to promote this request. Because I am aware of your sensitivity and effort, I would like you to answer us if there is to be legislation and, above all, if this legislation, which will restore the single book price, it will take place in the next few years. I think we have been delayed as a government - and as a SYRIZA - and we need to be on this issue. It is very important if we can make this arrangement by Christmas, where there is a great deal of movement of the book from all the social classes, so that there is a strong breath of relief throughout the space, which is a central pole of culture throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u222	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Kourakis. I think it is really a timely question from too many points. We agree on the reasoning of your question absolutely. The book is not a good like everything else. It does not belong to the second market such as everything else. It is a cultural asset that has its own peculiarity, its own value, its own ability to develop and create further things, which relate to a lot of dimensions of our life, from our identity as humans, as Greeks, as Europeans and as you want, up to things relating to technical, knowledge, wider cultivation etc. We fully agree on that. We fully agree that the procedure was disastrous, with which the decision to abolish the single book price was repealed. It was a decision at least unthinkable - not to say anything worse - and which, with some minor modifications, wanted to make in relation to children's books, literary books, thought that it would somehow confuse the consequences of this decision. The results so far - and here we agree - are disastrous. Book shops closed down by a lot the titles published by publishing houses. The situation in the region is even worse: points that have been the focus of culture, the regional bookshop to the extent that it is affected, the entire region is affected, and the possibilities for cultivating and developing etc. That's the situation. From there on, we know that the book has this dimension on the economic level, but it has too many dimensions, the crisis in the book - to say that - which we are trying to deal with together, with emphasis, of course, on the single price. We set up a committee at the Ministry of Culture consisting of people who deal with the book in different qualities: writers, printers, publishers, etc., in order to present to the Ministry concrete proposals for all these dimensions. One, the main dimension is precisely the question of the single price. We are already in comitology. The committee tabled its first conclusion. We had to find the procedure we were going to return to the single book price. In this respect we have done this: In cooperation and joint action, if you like, with the Ministry of Development, we have promoted a process in the context of the revision of the measures taken previously, in terms of their effectiveness. So first, in relation to the partners, it was just to accept that this measure is a measure to be reconstituted. This has already been accepted, and we are therefore in the process that the respective procedures - which is not my responsibility as Ministry - will raise the question of revising this decision on the abolition of the single book price. From that point on, a study is needed, which must also be in line with the specifications of these discussions, which will demonstrate with unresponsive arguments as far as possible the effects of this measure which not only improved the book, as it was intended by means of so-called free competition, but dismantled all these efforts. That is already foreseeable. The specification, now, of this study is that it goes hand in hand with market issues - what I said before - how many titles have been reduced, that instead of developing the book, it has shrinked, how many bookshops have closed, and so on - apart from that, there is also something that is a rule in most European Union countries - that for languages that do not have the broadness, the reading public, which is English, specific measures - such as France, for example - must be taken to protect the book in these countries. It's language protection, history protection and so on. So, unlike what was previously done, where the book was treated as a commodity, this time the study we will testify to be a study, which will recognize, apart from the first and second attributes of the book's quality as "good". From there on, this study could be done in various ways. We have decided to proclaim it and discuss it with the institutions on the standards of this study so that it will be as convincing as possible in these negotiations. We hope that this will lead to a positive outcome and because very much experience has accumulated in relation to the effects of the single price on the economic part, as well as on the protection of our language, in the final analysis, to which the single book price would help. From there on, we hope that soon - but how soon I cannot commit - this whole process will be possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u224	Come on, Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u225	Minister, first of all, I am pleased that you agree and, as far as you can, I just have a little concern about the time when this whole committee's outcome is to be achieved. I would remind you that Mr Graziakis, the MEP, has tabled a question to the committee, where the question is: Will it approve the introduction of a single book price in a Member State that wishes it, according to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union? And Commissioner Binkovska, in the Commission's debate of 12 May 1916, said that 'in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the protection of the book as a cultural good may be regarded as an imperative reason for public interest, capable of justifying measures restricting the free movement of goods, provided that such measures are appropriate in order to achieve the objective pursued and do not go beyond what is necessary to implement it'. I mean, that we have support from the European Union, as well as from a 'NEW YORK TIMES' article, Zigmar Gabriel, Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economy of Germany, has repeatedly made statements in favour of protecting the single price of books, which he calls 'the backbone of culture'. In addition, the Association of German Library Publishers, by letter sent to the Minister of Development Mr Stathakis, says that the single book price has been applied for over a hundred and fifty years and has not been interrupted in Germany, is a successful practice, and in Germany, both those responsible for policy making and society as a whole, agree that books - as you said - are not just a mere commodity but have a special cultural value. It is certain, Minister, that the abolition of the single book price has put at risk - as you have already said - the existence of a variety of titles - that is very important - the extensive network of independent bookshops and also according to studies - valid - in countries which have abolished the single book price, the average price of books has been increased and has not been reduced. On this basis, I would say that if we really want to offer and not eliminate the latest traces of bookshops, which are very substantial because contact is essential and that this cultural product should not be allocated to supermarkets, we should speed up the procedures so that we can have tangible results in a short time. I expect you to inform us at the first opportunity and the House and the people involved in the book - and it is a very large space - of the series of actions that we have taken and we will do as a government in order to achieve the desired result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u226	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u227	Thank you for this additional information. Most of these are in committee knowledge. We have strong support from such types of statements from many European countries, and all this will go into the study file, which will be prepared. Just as regards the timeline, it is the famous question: when will the debate be held on the review of the OECD toolbox? What of the OECD toolbox picks up a review? We are on deadlines that we have put that issue to debate. From there on, we will do everything we can to speed up the debate and, of course, to take place at the earliest time. The study itself will not take much time. It will be done by means of a proclamation of good and commonly accepted standards, but from there on, because the subject is well known, it has been debated very much and there are all these arguments you are saying, I believe that the study will take a relatively short time to complete and present. So we are - if you want - and in communication all of us together, because it is not a SYRIZA issue, I think all the political forces here support it, as many European countries support it, as you have said. In this sense, we hope that this will work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-17-S1-commons.u229	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.21 the sitting for tomorrow, Tuesday 18 October 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: according to the agenda distributed.
