ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval, PZ's minutes of Wednesday 13 April 2016 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PZ's minutes of Wednesday 13 April 2016 with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third question, with number 770/11-4-2016, will be discussed with the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on attempting to impose unacceptable conditions on individual contracts of employment and to impose them on workers with a threat of dismissal. Mr Katsotis' timely question will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. George Katrougalos. Mr Katsotis has the floor to develop his timely question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the capitalist crisis, the memoranda that followed and followed with all the anti-grassroots measures taken by all the governments, as well as today, are being exploited by the business groups to increase the level of exploitation of workers. One of the measures is to promote individual contracts of employment on unacceptable terms. It is well known that in this working jungle, dismissal is an easy way to work. In recent years individual contracts with which foreign labour law is being introduced, which is more reactionary than Greek, even as it has evolved with all these reactionary measures, have been developed with this reactionary institutional framework of the three Memorandums, the so-called "restructuring". They are making use of the headquarters of the company, Minister, located in another country. Let us note that these conventions concern workers employed in Greece and in many cases workers working in Greece. The worker, if he decides to find his point of view, should appeal to the courts of the country in which the undertaking has its seat and apply these contracts. In these contracts, there is a provision which obliges the worker to sign that he will not be paid in the absence of the disease or injury. You understand that this has nothing to do with what exists in Greek labour law. They require the worker in this case to appoint a deputy to keep his job open to the group until he returns to work. They also require that a term should be signed, in which he expressly agrees that if he gets sick more than fifteen days a year, he will be fired without the right to anything else. They oblige workers to sign an explicit declaration that they do not consider themselves as a group employee, so that the group does not have the burden of dismissal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Companies that blackmail workers to sign such contracts are a challenge because they violate all rights. Such an example is the "BIOSAR" operation of the "ELLAKOR" Group, Minister. The company has been expelled from a worker's business because it has refused to sign an individual service contract on such terms as we mentioned above. Let's note that this worker is in business for four years. We, Minister, are asking you to tell us what measures you will take to protect workers' rights by demanding the immediate withdrawal of these individual contracts, which replace contracts of indefinite duration and their definitive ban on workplaces. Also, what measures will you take to ban the practice of exploiting foreign labour law for workers employed in Greece and to cancel the unfair and avengeous redundancies of workers who refuse to sign such unacceptable conditions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr Colleague, as we have said many times, indeed, there is a working jungle in recent times, as a result of both the enforcement of legislation that restricts labour rights and which we are trying to reverse and of a generalised practice of lawlessness which is exploited by certain businesses, so as to eliminate even more the rights which workers have. That is why we have tried to make the most of the subordinated, as we have received, a Labour Inspectorate. We have asked to be strengthened by recruitment so that he can respond more effectively to his work. I also think that the disclosure of these illegal activities is of particular importance, so I always try, when you raise similar issues with your own questions, to be present and answer them. On this point, there is Regulation 593/2008 of the European Parliament, which prohibits the application of provisions of foreign law to employment contracts, to those matters that are protected by workers and cannot be derogated under national law. So the cases you mentioned are a direct violation of existing law. It is not the right of the company to incorporate rules of foreign labour law into individual employment contracts of the contents you mentioned. Evidently, such terms as the ones you included in your question - such as if I get sick, I won't get paid, etc. - They're clearly abusive and illegal. So the Labour Inspectorate will be dealt with in these cases and we will be exhausted the rigour allowed by the law. In this particular case, I cannot give you any additional information, because the complaint to the APR was made on the day following the question's submission and will be discussed in this tripartite system, that is, in the presence of both the worker and the employer on 11 May. So I do not have to tell you whether or not this reference is correct and I cannot tell you what we are going to do, because, as you can see, there is this particular procedure that is to be followed. In principle, of course, since the facts are the way you describe them and our opposition will be analogous, that is also strict with the insistence on the law being implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsotis has the floor to develop his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u7	Minister, is it law enforcement or is it the choice of government and capital, which want a very cheap labour force here in order to overcome their crisis at the expense of workers and the people? It is the choice made by the capital and the governments that serve it, the parties that say that this is the one-way, so that here we can create the friendly environment, get investors to come to growth, which, of course, workers will pay very dearly on these unacceptable conditions imposed, through this institutional framework that exists for them. Can the APRC with the checks stop this working jungle, where you say there is one? No, Minister. It can't be done. The APR sees what the institutional framework is and on this it takes a stand on whether or not it is kept. So it wants here to ensure stable work as well as workers' working and insurance rights, based on the conquests, of course, which the labour movement has had in all previous years. As far as publicity is concerned, of course, we believe it is helping. The unions are on their way. They were protesting about this, they came to the Ministry, they made announcements, they made complaints, they asked. This is not the first time that this situation has been made public in the workplace, this jungle, this middle-aged one. But you have responsibilities. There's publicity. Beyond that, what's going on? What is the legislative framework you are preparing to bring? You say 'we will bring the best practices in the European Union'. Who are these? Aren't these the best practices carried out by the large monopolist groups, to win even more, not the mini-jobs in Germany or the zero-time contracts in England? The Bolkenstein Directive and the decisions of the European Union are not the best practices, Minister? We believe that here companies find this institutional framework and implement it, as well as anything else they can do, so that they can impose such unacceptable conditions. So the worker who was made redundant, precisely for these reasons, Minister. We think the tripartite on May 11 is far away. It could make the trialogue even faster, especially in those cases where you consider that every worker's right to work is violated. We believe that this tripartite must end up and the undertaking must take back the workers who have been made redundant because it has refused to sign these unacceptable conditions imposed by these individual contracts of employment, which must be abolished, Minister. There can be no such conditions in individual contracts of employment, which abolish any right that is still under this institutional framework that has been implemented so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr Christos Katsotis. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Katrugalos, has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u9	In any case, such conditions are invalid, illegal, and we will do our utmost to ensure that companies know that the infringement of legality is not tolerated. Conditions which require the worker not to be paid when he is ill or is obliged to appoint a deputy, it is clear that they are outside the limits of the Greek and European legal systems. This is not a question of worsening the legislative framework, but here we have a purely arbitrary situation. As far as the action taken by the Government is concerned, I would remind you that, in order to strengthen workers' rights and even over-legislatively, we have recently ratified the revised European Social Charter, which for 20 years, although it had been signed, has not been ratified. Let me also inform you that in the discussions now taking place - under the Dutch Presidency - on the revision of the Bolkenstein Directive, our Government insists that the possibility of foreign staff being allowed to work - even from one European Union country - under other conditions than those laid down in the country of work provision. Equal pay for equal work, therefore, should be the rule and for cases where we are moving staff between the countries of the European Union. Obviously in the negotiation with our partners, our aim is to restore collective bargaining, not to adopt measures like what you said, which I think are outside the European acquis. Therefore, as a government, we will also continue to promote measures which give more intensity and protection to workers' rights and to be arbitrary when it happens in the working jungle and at the level of European legislation to ensure that workers' rights are extended and not restricted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Katrugalo. We will now discuss the second question by number 768/11-4-2016 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Health, on the problems of rooftops and disabled children. This timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, to develop his timely question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, the roofs of supported living, as well as the centres of bidding and daily care for children with disabilities, are essentially serving the necessary policy to support destabilisation or, if you like, to help children with disabilities to be able to support themselves through these structures in order to avoid incarceration in institutions. Actions and the supported living on the roofs of children with disabilities, people with this need and on the centres of daily care for children with disabilities are therefore very important. After the end of the previous ESRB there was a problem with regard to their operation and, despite the delay, there was finally legislation, which was voted on by all Parliament's wings in December 2014, if I remember well. Only, in fact, there was bad luck - and I believe that political changes have also contributed to this - and the necessary joint ministerial decision was not adopted in time to start implementing. Of course it was not easy to pass through the Ministry of Health at the time, because there were various problems, but it became the state's law. First of all, we would like you to inform us of this issue, namely where the issue of the CSCE is concerned, and in particular of the consultations with those who support sheltered living roofs, so that the necessary contracts can be concluded. On the second point, I am briefly referring to the fact that disability-care centres and doubling centres served through their operation and serve - some have only been closed down, because there is this gap in funding - the need for children's treatments and, indeed, with scale savings. The EBRD had undertaken the operation of the programme. The Ministry of Labour, in particular, was what supported it through the corresponding structure. But at some point it stopped and I would say that there was also an attempt to transfer this programme's responsibilities to the Ministry of Health, which had no involvement - we have to say that - by 2014-2015. I want you to let me know if, in the end, the circular that came out of the Ministry and the EEAS, which is in a positive direction, has begun to be implemented or when it will begin to be implemented, so that we can stop the phenomenon of closing down these centres and structures which serve many children. If I remember correctly, the number was forty - three structures and a thousand four hundred thirty children with disabilities in them. It's very important, I think, for the work of the Ministry of Health. As I said before, he was also working, but he's probably "loaded" the responsibility to health. Thank you, Mr President, for giving us time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. As you will know, we are in constant contact with both the EOPY and the Ministry of Labour and we have launched a solution to the issue you mentioned. To clarify things from the outset, unfortunately, the decision that had come out, what you say'state law', which had been voted on on 24-12-2014, for special hospitals - food for shelters for people with disabilities supported has had a mistake. What was the mistake? It was not for those structures to be able to sign contracts with the EEA. This was the main mistake, which shaped the situation of not being able to sign contracts. There, it seems very clearly defined by this article, Article 48, the amount of hospitals and nourishments and who gives it. Unfortunately, it did not foresee that roofs of supported living and day-to-day centres could sign contracts with the EEAS, perhaps because they were also covered by the EBRD programme at that time. We know that. We've moved. For the two-day services, parents are paid for and they pay the centers under the EOPY Benefits Regulation. They were also given for 2014 and for 2015. At the moment we have the joint ministerial decision ready, the new EIC that will come out - to understand what the problem is - the new EOPY benefit regulation that comes out by the end of April, the beginning of May, will explicitly provide for the possibility of a contract of these structures with the EOPY, so the problem is finally solved. There is a problem with a void that exists from January to April this year - because the EMCDDA is valid from its publication - which, by pressing on to an earlier EEA decision, we will adopt a joint ministerial decision with retroactive effect, which will allow for the existence of contracts between roofs and the two-day structures, so that they can be covered and continued. Unfortunately, there has been this involvement that you are also talking about with the EBRD programme that ended. We know that the Ministry of Labour is planning to join the new programmes, but until this is done, there will also be the possibility of coverage by the EEAS. The Federation of Persons with Special Needs is fully informed in relation to these moves, it agrees and is a matter which will be resolved within a few days of the adoption of a joint ministerial decision, which is ready and for which a decision of the Board of Directors of the EEAS should be made, which says that, yes, I want to do so. Because this is the legislative matter in Greece. To do anything, they have to decide three hundred. An earlier decision of the EEA Board of Directors was updated, which had not even been sent to the Ministry, from what we discovered, by looking for the papers. This decision has been updated and on this basis the roofs of supported living and day care centres will be covered. Also, I think you should be aware that we met a few days ago with the Federation and are fully aware of this whole process that is evolving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u15	For roofs, there is Article 48 of the law to which the Minister referred, and it is, Mr President, unanimously adopted by Parliament. For a unanimously adopted article, a provision that is complete - it has no problem - because the EPPY had 'political' objections - it did not consider that it was correct and did not go through it - we see that the political leadership is struggling today - and I believe anyone who would be in this position - to be implemented, confronted with indirect objections and indirect stumbling-ups which are, unfortunately, being put forward. Article 48 provides that for children of insured persons, the fund will be paid by the EEAS, while for uninsured child from the Welfare and provides for a joint ministerial decision setting out the details of the issues needed for its implementation. In fact, the EEIG regulation, which did not provide for it, had to be amended and the regulation complied with. There is therefore no justification for the fact that the amendments to the law have been delayed. You quite rightly said that, in order to be able to cover expenditure - and I would say, Mr Minister, since 2015, you should see it, which is expenditure on roofs, not just 1-1-2016 - the validity of the amendment of the regulation should, in fact, be explicitly foreseen and has retroactive effect. If legislation is needed, I think that we are at your disposal to support it on this matter. You know, however, that it is very difficult when a structure is closed, when a sheltered living roof is closed, then it will restart. That is why all the administrations of the organizations involved and cannot have a different policy either from the Ministry or as a whole from the Hellenic Republic, which has signed the International Convention on Disabled Persons and the issue of their autonomous and supported living. The previous law on sheltered living roofs did not define the hospital. It had been defined before another law and ministerial decision, but that doesn't matter, it's secondary. What is the aim of the structures of children with disabilities, which have to do with the two-day and day-to-day care? Clearly the treatments are there, clearly there is also employment and avoidance of incarceration in institutions. Therefore, it is very important that there should also be a rapid development in this matter. There is a responsibility for the Ministry of Labour, which did not implement any legislation that existed and only implemented it in the part concerning the municipalities, because the money put it in the Ministry of the Interior and covered the part of the structures operating from the municipalities. Those structures operated by the parents were not covered by the Ministry of Labour and thus the responsibility for health was transferred. In other words, you, as the Ministry of Health, do not have the responsibility for the inertia for 2015. However, this agreed solution can actually bridge the situation until the new ESDP begins. So what we want is for you to see it closely and personally so that it is implemented and paid as soon as possible to have a good end to this issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Paulakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u17	Only two words, Mr Kegerolgos, because we finally agree on evolution and that will be the case. I repeat that you are a much older parliamentarian than I am. Article 48 did not provide for an issue of a CSM. He didn't see it coming. He said that the special hospitals - food for sheltered living roofs are paid by the EEAH for insured insurance agencies that have joined it, by the insurance agencies themselves for those who have not joined, by the Welfare, when they are uninsured and for the needy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u18	I've signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u19	This article did not provide for the adoption of a joint ministerial decision. This should have included the possibility of making contracts. Anyway, it wasn't included. In the meantime, for the second time, which you said, I would like to say that the administration that currently exists in the EEA is fully in line with the political choices made by the Ministry of Health and Government. He updated, Mr Kegeroglu, an earlier decision of the then Board of Directors - had been made since 21-5-2015 - the previous administration, appointed by the previous government, which called for the amendment of Article 18, but which was not forwarded to the Ministry of Health. This decision was not transmitted to the Ministry of Health, because there would probably be some other things behind it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u20	From the administration of the EEAS. I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u21	Yes, that is what I mean, that he had made a decision to amend Article 18 of the Single Procurement Regulation, but that was not forwarded to the Ministry. Anyway, we have updated this decision by a prior decision of the Board of Directors of the EEAS and the conventions will be signed to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The answer to Mr Kegeroglu's timely question has been completed. We move to the seventh under No 732/4-2016 topical question by the Member of the Potamis Lassis MP Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health on the long-term expectation of radiotherapy in the public hospitals of the country. The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Barriots, to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for finally being here today. For me that is a special privilege, because the last time I saw you in a timely question was in November. Since then there have been seven unanswered topicals, and today, finally, it is very pleasant that, after a single postponement, you will be presenting this question on a very important subject, the issue of radiation treatments. I would like to make a small remark on this point, because on the basis of some information which has come to the press, the Ministry of Health is, by the way, a long way away the champion of absences with fifty-four. He's following the Treasury with forty-five. But the evidence in this regard shows - and I am addressing you, Mr President, in your capacity - that there is a problem with the way the timeliness is going and is not responding, which is obviously due to a burden. I would like to point out that we discussed this last time. There are solutions which the Bureau should seek in its collective form and be given in the immediate future, because I think that is how we are all undermining Parliament's authority. And that doesn't have personal peaks. I'm going to ask for a little tolerance, so I can get to the point myself. We all know that one of the largest deficits - if not the largest - of the National Health System is the treatment of cancer patients. In the province, especially, it's even worse. There are few possibilities, especially in the province's four major university hospitals. If the waiting for cancer patients in "Saint Savva" reaches six months, in the province the reality is that there is actually no time and access. Two-thirds of the patients are forced to emigrate to the centre, and most of the time they are directed at private centres, at additional costs, even though private centres are paid from the Funds to 100%. The additional cost sometimes exceeds five thousand. And we're talking about people who are in a really bad place. The evidence suggests that the radiation therapy machines are too small. The public has only twenty-four of the total forty-two of the country, compared with the sixty that the country needs as a whole. Of the twenty-four public machinery, on a regular basis, three do not work, even though they are new, because they have no staff, and the twelve are outdated and practically finished. In this grim environment, there is a donation from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation which is pending and concerns hospitals of the centre, but mainly the renewal of the equipment of the district hospitals of Alexandroupolis, Larissa, Patras and Heraklion, which are in a terrible state and are usually damaged, most of the time. It's a little already. Ensuring the operation with the installation is the only condition laid down by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation and is translated into forty two recruitments of a total of scientific and support staff, which have not been made, not completed and some of them have not been launched. And the deadline expires in June. There is a great risk that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will withdraw the offer, if necessary, if these forty-two recruitments are not completed. Alexandroupolis seems to be losing it definitively, as it is out of every design, and this has a symbolic value. There is concern in other hospitals, mainly because most recruits are ancillary staff that are not sure will meet Johns Hopkins' standards, which is the advisor to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for this donation. So the first question, Minister, is: What do you think of the donation as a Ministry? Do you consider this donation necessary and vital? Do we want it, first of all, as a ministry and as a state? At what stage are recruitments, because the picture is mixed and there is confusion as one point? Are there hospitals in danger? Mostly, is there the information that you have the possibility of withdrawing a total offer for all seven machinery, if one of the seven hospitals is lost, or if one of the seven hospitals is unable to meet the needs of the donation? That's all for now. Thank you for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. Mr Paulakis, the Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Barriott, I thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify some things, because they have seen the light of publicity in recent times, which are not really based. And it's like that that someone's rage to make opposition, which seems to have put their hands in front of their eyes and they don't see what's going on. To be clear, firstly, donation is not lost. It is in regular contact with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation collaborators of mine and Andreas Xanthos and we launch all the things necessary for the implementation of the donation. One of the prisoners. Secondly, we have made a huge effort to put the system up with regard to its staff needs. With the two appeals of the nine hundred and eighty-fifths of the eighty-fifths, which have been completed - the first of the results - and the second of the deadline for submitting applications which expired since 11 month - there has been an intake - to say things with their name - of the first nine hundred eighty-fifths of the eighty-fifths, thirty-four staff specializing in radiology - of radiotherapeutics, which will also strengthen the radiation therapists, but not just radiation therapists. Here's a parentheses. An oncology patient does not only radiotherapy. It's a CT scan, too. She needs some kind of imaging. If they don't exist, if these sections aren't reinforced, it's not enough to do the radiation therapy. We have also seen a number of announcements - which I would say - that we appoint - to hospitals with no radiotherapists. We are doing an overall intervention in the system, which concerns the oncological patients. So, when we go to some Radiologists - Radiologists in nuclear medicine departments, doesn't that benefit the tumor patients with enthusiasms, diagnostics or healing? This criticism that saw the light of publicity is very poor. From the first, therefore, it is inclined to appoint thirty-four people - the results of radiodiology and radiopharmaceuticals have been obtained and five radiophysics, and they do not only need radiotherapeutics. It is also necessary for all imaging departments, as are the official bodies of their expression and not the official bodies of their expression. Also, since the intake of the five hundred five ancillarys - the deadline for submitting the statements the other day has expired - the recruitments of fifty three TEs of Radiology - Radiology plus nine radiophysics, which are not only in Athens, are in "Saint Anargyra", are in "Fleming", is in "Juneo", is in "Saint Paul" in Thessaloniki, is in Serres, is in Kavala, is in Alexandroupolis. We have a full picture of what is required. The new proclamation of permanent staff, of the thousands of seven hundred people, as I have said many times, and you know it, on occasion, we delayed coming out, even though there is a PSF, because we wanted to save time. Sounds strange, but that's the way it is. We want the final results for the nine hundred and eighty-five of the November notice, which have already come out for the three of the four categories it includes, so that the new notice of the seventeen hundred can be made from the rolling table of the final results of the previous notice and not be delayed. And in there, be sure, Mr. Barriotta, and don't worry, we will cover the positions that are needed to function in a decent manner, the sections that the Stavros Niarchus Foundation donates, but also other radiation therapists, which they need. And one last word. Because it's done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u26	Your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u27	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Bargiotas, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendances from the Old Psycho High, first section. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me inform you that you are following a parliamentary procedure. You're in the middle of the process. The Member is asking and the Minister is answering. The honourable Member has already put his question and we are in dentistry. The floor will now be taken by Mr Barriots, Member of the Larisi Parliament, for his dentistry. You have the floor, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you one more time. I'll start with Larissa, knowing her well. The machine that exists, the linear accelerator, is really ancient and is usually broken. A large private center of the area is already installing an accelerator, which will work before the new accelerator, though and when the Niarchus offer is completed. I will not give in to the convenience of criticism that the delay is due to private interests. I can't believe it anyway. After all, I am one of those who believe, as I have said before, that private investment is also welcome and needed. For Thessaly, both new machines on daily ten shifts are not enough to fill the gap. I also said at the outset that the issue of dealing with cancer - not just radiation therapy - is huge and the gaps in the province are dramatic. I believe that the inability to plan and deal with the issue, even at these gruesome moments, from an economic point of view, is characteristic and I am very afraid that the Ministry is to blame. Niarchos has the professionalism he does not have with the Ministry and in order to make his offer he commissioned a study, as you well know, at the John Hopkins and the Hellenic Oncology - Radiotherapy Society, which says they need forty two specific intakes for seven. It also says that for the remaining three - which, I recall, is new from the NSRF and are locked, do not work because of staff - they need another eighty-nine. All in all, it takes a hundred and thirty-one hiring if I'm not mistaken. In my view, in the famous 5K and 4K notices you are talking about and speaking again in the nineteen-sixteen places, it should also be thirty-one positions for radiation therapy, because it is one of the most vital and acute problems a man can face in his life. No one would blame you if a hundred and thirty-one positions needed for the radiation therapy were all published from now on. Let us not forget that 3 million is the VAT of the institution's donation, which means that, with a simple division, the hundred and thirty-one positions that are needed are covered for at least one year - if anyone sees it as a grocery store - only from the revenue that the public will have from the supply. Because he's going to have public revenue from the offer. Nevertheless, reluctance is unexplained. You refused - from what I know - or did not manage to see the representatives of the Foundation in Greece, as well as the Hellenic Oncology - Radiotherapy Company. I have this briefing. They are the people who work on the Niarchus side to make the offer. I'm glad you have contacts at a lower level. Otherwise, these people are struggling, because most of the recruitments in the province are carried out using methods which may be unsatisfactory for the Foundation's Board of Directors in America - as you know, it is based there - it may not be satisfactory. We are talking about blocks and we are talking about ancillary radiological agents, which do not meet 100% standards. Everyone hopes that things will go a long way. From Alexandroupolis, from the people I have spoken with, the information is that despite all the efforts of the University that has moved LAG positions towards radiation physics, despite all the efforts of local government, there are three recruitments that have not been announced. In June the offer expires. In Thrace, will we make an economy? In Thrace, should radiation physics be removed in favour of the CSD and the ‘Siminoglobe’, which do not have radiotherapeutic apparatus and could be in the next call? No objections are needed elsewhere for radiotherapists, except they could be six months behind. So it doesn't get lost...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u30	Good, Mr. Comrade. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u31	I think, however, that the problem is described precisely in this communication you are referring to, which you have taken as an answer. I believe that there is general sloppyness and a greedy vigilance in dealing with health problems, which is shown here. Can we schedule forty-two recruitments? That's the question. It has not been possible within fourteen, fifteen months to become forty-two recruitments, for which, as I have said, there are even, as you have said - the money. We are a month before the end of the bidding, and there are very serious loose ends. I am glad you say that you want the offer and you will do everything you can and that you do not lose it - I am with you, not to lose it - but to avoid losing it, we must add forty-two people, of whom many have not been hired, have not even started procedures. That's what information from the province's hospitals says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr Barriot, we as the Ministry of Health are obliged - and that is what we are doing - to support the government's policy of supporting the health system - that is what is also seen from the money allocated to this year's budget and from the uprooting of recruitment and older years and the creation of new ones - to match in a balanced manner the extreme needs that have left five years of monumental destruction. And really, it's a little weird - how can I say it? - while you see that for the first time after six, seven years people start going back to hospitals, creating a picture of the end of the world, if we don't do something in a month. Four hundred and thirty-five approved appropriations were allocated to the recruitment of permanent doctors and had them frozen five years and since September we have published three hundred fifty in FEK. Didn't you see that? Can you not see that between September and December, within four months, there have been four hundred and eighty subsidiary doctors and from Genoa so far - until yesterday afternoon - three hundred and forty-five have been appointed? And, indeed, they'll take almost everyone's service as far as I can see, because they're starting to see that something's going on in the health field. I told you the numbers previously on this part. To answer both the real terms, there is a philology for six months wait, ten months wait, three and four months wait everywhere and that people die, etc. First of all, what you're saying - I'll tell you what it's really like - in the past few years, didn't you see it? Wasn't there then? When this government came out, did the waiting increase? Well, to speak specifically, I have to say the following. Firstly, the AHEPA hospital has a radiation therapeutic. ‘The median waiting time for patients to initiate radiotherapy at the Radiotherapy Oncology Department rarely exceeds 10 working days. Signed by Ioannis Gjikas, Assistant Professor, Director of the Department." Second, from the head of the Hospital of "Family", the average waiting time is twenty to thirty days. Thirdly, at the "Agioi Anargyroi" Oncology Hospital, the waiting time is about three months. If it's urgent, they put him in early. In "Saint Savva" depending on the machine, the waiting time is from thirty days to ninety days, depending on which machine it needs, the linear accelerator or the cobalt. At the Andreas Congregation Hospital, the waiting time for radiation treatments is seven to fifteen days. At the Sanctuary of Sanctuary, for children, in this section, at the present time period, there is no delay in the programming and initiation of treatments. To speak specifically now and not to go out on the channels and talk, as the President of ISA did, let's say, rather from acquired opposition speed. At Alexandra Hospital, the waiting time at the department is about forty-nine days. If there's pressure or specific incident, he gets in earlier, that's before it. Your Larissa Hospital says that, based on the equipment and the number of radiologic technicians, there could be twenty-five radiation treatments a day, but with the overtime that employees do, they reach 30 a day. On a theoretical level, the needs could reach up to 90 a day. Indeed, the wait may reach, at most, three months, but when there are cases in need of immediate treatment, they put them in front of the list, otherwise, if they cannot, they are sent to Thessaloniki, which is not a problem. And here we are being asked by four technicians to do the afternoons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u34	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u35	I heard you very carefully. Be careful, I have mentioned a number of examples that, with the current situation and with all that has happened in the previous period, show what is the real picture of the waiting that exists. We are not entirely satisfied either. We will also cover this, as will many other wounds, which have opened up to the public health body in recent years. This government's job is to heal them. So don't worry, the donation won't be lost. The positions will be covered, as should they be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next question, let us say that we are in the happy position and have the pleasure and luck of having in the southern gallery theory of the House of teachers, parents and representatives of self-government by the Krematist Rhodes who are following the parliamentary procedure. We welcome you. Be well. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, you will also have the opportunity to follow the timely question from the Member of the Dodecanese of New Democracy Mr. Konsolas to the Minister of Health. So it's a bit of a concern to you. We will proceed to the twelfth under number 675-17-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, on the subsistence of the General Hospital of Rhodes and the problems of functioning in neural areas. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr. Consolas has the floor to develop his question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am pleased that you and the parents, the representatives of government and the teachers are giving our voice to a very important question today, and I would like to identify with the Minister's view that health problems are over time. No one blames the Ministry of Health's leadership for having inherited zero problems. But, Minister, at this point I would like to express my displeasure once again because of the twenty-seven questions the government intends to answer only seven at the level of parliamentary control. At the same time, however, I would like to thank you, because you are here today, even by postponement four times for the question about the Rhodes Hospital. It's not just about you, it's about the government as a whole. I would also like to remind you - and I shall put it in the Minutes, Mr Minister - that since 2 February I have submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs and to you - and we must say that you have accepted it - the request that health issues be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs on the islands and the hospital in general. Even today, however, we are discussing a matter, part of this dimension I mentioned, for the Rhodes Hospital. The Hospital of Rhodes, Mr President, Minister, is a key pillar facing health, not only in Rhodes, but in the southern Aegean in general. It is the largest pillar of health in the Dodecanese, Cyclades and the Eastern Aegean. However, in Rhodes the population in the summer is multiplying, not doubled and tripled. You know - you are a doctor, you are an islander, I imagine you have the same concern as us - that the secondment of the Rhodes Hospital at this level today is tragic, Minister. Let me just tell you that the subscribing index in the hospital exceeds every limit throughout the territory. For example, I can mention that from one hundred and forty - eight doctors' organic positions are empty seventy. Only seventy - eight doctors are serving in organic positions. Of the four hundred and ninety-nine nursing posts, the two thirty-eight, Minister. I will submit to the Prosecutor of Rhodes, Mr Minister, a memorandum from the Medical Association of Doctors of Rhodes and Health Centers, which was also notified to the Prosecutor of Rhodes, in order to express the concern of the medical world, the medicine, the nursery on health issues at the hospital. I will also present in the minutes the conclusion and decision of the Administration of the Hospital of Rhodes, which states this dimension. I must also tell you, Minister, that, among other problems, a lasting solution is needed with regard to haematologicals. Minister, you have dealt with it and I know it, and I must express public thanks because you have shown sensitivity. I believe, however, - to be brief on time too - that, Minister, the haemodynamic laboratory must be self-determination in order to have a lasting and sustainable solution, as well as the oncology section provided for in the establishment plan, because you know the consequences, you have mentioned consequences from other hospitals. I would also like to say at this point that 'The Republic of Rhodes' reports on its front page: 'Is anyone listening? It breaks down the Hospital of Rhodes." 'The Rodian', another daily newspaper, states: 'Agreement'. We do not want to give the position of solidarity and the feelings of the people who have for nurses, doctors for the patients who are suffering, 'orgasm'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So please - I know your sensitivities - immediate solutions now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr Consola, for the development of his prototype. Mr Paulakis, Vice-President of the Commission, has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Consola, thank you for the question. I would also like Mr Cremastinos here, who has a corresponding question, not to mention it twice. First of all, the Hospital of Rhodes, like all hospitals in the country, supported them this year in order to ensure their operation and especially at the end of 2015. While it was budgeted that the Hospital of Rhodes would have taken out of the budget, which you had made as a government before, a grant from the regular budget of EUR 9.656.599 for 2015, was eventually assigned EUR 10.510.000 for 2015, almost one million more in this year's budget, which we believe covers a large part of the needs that exist. In other words, there is a clear picture of the financial support of the hospital. Secondly, there is the notice by which they are already being appointed by the HR and the IP. I am talking about the nine hundred and eighty-five of November, which has been completed and the final results for the three of the four categories have been obtained. They're staying at the PD. The temporary results will be made in very few days. Rhodes Hospital has taken twenty people, Mr. Consola. Twenty-five people you've got! Isn't that what your two newspapers see? When did twenty-one people go back together, or will they go back to the last seven, eight years? And I'm specifically talking: Three Nurse PD, a PD, a CPD, a CPD, a medical lab, six nursing labs, two radiodiology - Radiology, five U.S. Nurse assistants, a DCD medical biological labs, and a PD of Observers - Observers. We are talking, in other words, about twenty-one from the previous notice. Secondly, there have been supplementary doctors and you know them. There's a cardiologist, and he was appointed second, who didn't go. That's how he was reappointed. It's two surgical seats. One of them went. The second one was appointed, he did not agree to go and reappointed the next one, who will see if he is going. Also, there is a surgeon's position in the TLP, who again did not accept and was reappointed. Whatever we can, we do. If he wants to go, he'll go. We can't put his gun on the head and make him go. A number of appointments are pending for subsidiarys, which are all covered in the level of credit. Once there's availability, they'll go. This is a urologist's position, a pathologist's position, an invasive cardiologist's position - this has been requested on purpose - and a general physician's position. But right now, there's no doctor on the list. You also know that the CDC is over. Since the CEDEFOP proclamation of the hundred doctors and four hundred nurses, you get two doctors for the unit, eight nurses for the ICU and a nurse for the infirmity unit. And these are well known and announced. Already, the doctors began to be appointed. You don't know that. But so far, you know. So while they are now coming out and talking about dissolution and destruction, I would like to ask: before what happened? Did we see it here? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Thirdly, in the great proclamation which will now come out for the thousands of seven hundred people, based on the proposals that have also been made by the Health Region - and will also be seen by the new director of the hospital, who has been established - there are 12 permanent doctors' posts in various specialities, where there will also be provision for the TDIs, because we know that there is a problem in the TIPs, especially in the summer. The TLPs therefore provide for 12 permanent posts of doctors. And there are another twenty-five people in nursing, because we know there is the problem. I think it is clear that we are aware of the issues and have made a visible effort. I'm putting aside the haematological, because I'm probably going to answer it and then, while this thing has a story behind it. But let me say just one word, why do you ask about it? So the issue has been covered. The problem was created in March, because two doctors, one on sick leave and the other on child rearing leave were licensed. So we extracted a doctor while the sick leave ended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u41	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u42	Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President, like you, Minister. Mr President, since you have come to the seat, you will see that because of a time when parents, self-government and colleagues from Rhodes are following our debate. They will be bearers of the discussion and of the product of the conclusions. Minister, you know me. You know my position at the National Representation all these years. I am far from cheap and unpopular policies and, above all, I do not have cheap political criticisms at the National Representation. So, far from me, the fact that I'm criticizing. Secondly, I respect and appreciate your efforts. Besides, I said you inherited problems. But we want immediate solutions. Minister, you started by saying, "What should I do? Am I going to find the doctors?" From 4 November 2015, Mr. President, I submitted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u44	We'll find them, but if they don't accept to go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u45	All right! Go on, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u46	Good! In this regard, Mr President, I would like to say that on 4 November 2015 I tabled - and I put it in the Minutes - a specific proposal to the Ministry - which the leadership first accepted - so that incentives can be given - that Mr Cameroon is here and we welcome his presence - in the island area. If no motive is given, the doctors will go away all the time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Second point. You know, Mr President, by the way, SYRIZA has staggered the position and functioning of the CEDEFOP. Now, the Minister is adhering that through CEDEFOP he covers gaps in intensive care units and in hospitals. He has done the same for subsidiary doctors. Minister, you're a doctor, and you're in a long story. Listen to something! Rhodes is a special place, a great tourist destination in our country. Her inhabitants are about five hundred thousand, while in the summer season they are multiplying. And I'm only giving you this element to understand what limit point we're at. I'm glad you said about the Intensive Treatment Unit. But I'm glad you mentioned the haemodynamics. I resubmit the proposal. The haematological has to be self-determination. And it must be self-determined, Minister, and the oncological clinic department. Let me focus particularly on this, Mr President. This section, which provides for two posts of doctors and director, is also provided for in the establishment plan. It takes a statement and brave decision from the Ministry, as you did on Kos - and I am glad to see it implemented - three doctors pediatricians in Kos to find at least one twin to share the news. Do that, Minister, and for Rhodes. The oncological incidents that the hospital faces are literally bent on the population, nursing and medical staff of the hospital. It is tens of millions, Mr President, who spend families, to move to Athens. Please interfere with the problem. Decide now to become an autonomous oncology, in the form of a three - doctor notice. You know, the budget is huge, as is huge from the crossroads. You can also highlight the emergency of Rhodes. Do you know why? Because they're only serving two of the six doctors that's planned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To close, Mr President, unfortunately, the figures described by the Minister have been mentioned by medical staff. They must be leaned on the medical staff's organic positions as well. Three years ago there were forty-five specialists. Minister, do you know how many people are today? Just twenty-three. I want you to know that we'll recognize any effort. The New Democracy and I know how difficult it is for the islands to pursue a health policy. In any case, health is something that unites us. Here, in this Chamber, we can reach agreement on the minimum, the minimum, which corresponds to the inhabitants of the Dodecanese and the southern Aegean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u48	We are fully aware of what CEDEFOP has done in previous years and we will therefore soon be making its radical reconstruction. So, as you have seen with the EDPS survey, which we have ordered and completed, there have also been abuses of a malicious character in the administrations of those two years. From there on, and those assignments that are now being made, we control them. This is the first time that, for these appointings for the units, CERNOS follows the criteria of the AACC under the control of the Ministry. This is the first time this thing has been done. Now it gives us the possibility of directly meeting needs, as the subsidiary of the immediate coverage of needs allows us. The institutional framework that existed so far, we tried by order in the parallel programme to shorten it by setting deadlines which should not be exceeded. You know that today, to proclaim a doctor's position and go to his place, he's been spending a year and a half, maybe two, maybe two and a half. We have set a three and a half months horizon from the day the notice is published, until the day the service takes place. And it is a wager for everyone both for the leadership and for the hospitals and for the administrations, for the crisis councils, to complete the process, because they have entered final dates in relation to them, to implement this thing. Because we know, post notices, you say they're going and one doesn't make the suggestion, the board doesn't meet, the board doesn't find them, they don't, they don't show, and it's pulling the thing out, maybe one and a half years, as it used to be. Well, we'll be judged if this thing overturns it. About the two specific topics you said, about the separatisms of the two sections, look to see. I don't think the subject of haemodynamics is that intense. I mean, it's five doctors who serve there. But I think that the subject of the tumor section could be seen. We will also consult with the new commander in this respect. We have scheduled for Rhodes twelve new permanent recruitment posts for doctors from the sixty-sixty permanent doctors. I'm not talking about subsidiary doctors, I'm talking about permanent doctors. I'm sure some people will go to the TLPs, which we know the problem. From there on, if there is any such assessment from the hospital administration, that this is the need for the department and so forth, I have no objection. There is no Oncology Department in the area of the eastern Aegean. Indeed, you have a large population, you have large tourism in the summer, you double and you triple the island's population, and we will do everything possible to support this situation and the prospect. I think we're on a path to some things. Just what I said before that bothers me, is that while now for the first time after five, six years things happen, it raises in various parts of Greece the question that "if you are missing, we are destroyed, we are dissolved, and so forth". I simply hope that some media, which in the past few years have been in the hug completely, have discovered the disaster of health. This isn't about the staff you said. I talked about the papers you said before. We are all judged, Mr Consola, not by what we say, but by what we do. Because we're what we're doing, not what we're talking about. So we'll all be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. And from Rhodes we're going to Thrace. The fourteenth under number 606/1-3-2016 is to be discussed with a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Prussias Prussaki to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Radio Diagnostic Clinic. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic operates four sections and there are five medical posts, one of which was transferred by your decision to the Kalavryta Health Center and the other submitted resignation. I mean, there's three doctors left. There are also four qualified doctors who, after completing their cycle, left in other directions. The lack of medical staff results in the following consequences: firstly, there are no tests in fifty with seventy daily outpatients, many of whom suffer from chronic and serious illnesses. Secondly, doctors and nurses have exceeded every human endurance limit. Thirdly, the investment of EUR 1.5 million in the hospital is not exploited and decommissioned. And fourthly, the financial losses, as described by economic operators in the hospital, exceed on a monthly basis EUR 50,000. Do we have an excess of them? Due to an economic crisis, citizens need state support more. State infrastructure should be exploited and contribute to the recovery of the country. Medical tourism could be promoted. We've already talked about this. The two laws are inactive and a DCA version is required. I think you could have it in your political planning, but unfortunately you do the opposite. Currently, there are four hundred fifty workers from the bankruptcy of "ELECTRONIC". Tomorrow, who's next? That's why you're asking: First, what actions do you intend to take to ensure that the Xanthi hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic is provided and that the health of the local residents is not compromised? I'm guessing that to agree to answer after so many postponements, you have good news of the Xanthi Thracians. Secondly, we would like to know what the reasons for transferring this doctor to the Calavrion Health Centre were. Thirdly, I would like to inform you on every condition that the three Health Centres and the Xanthi PAR have a radiologist, but they do not have a doctor. It is therefore a question of legal function now. The X-rays they perform are sent to the hospital, which, as I said before, is unable to cope with the standing requirements of its own patients. I think it's a matter that needs to be taken into account by your ministry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Prison, thank you for the question. Firstly, this fellow doctor was moved to Kalavriton Hospital because he had the right to do so. By a law passed since 2014, doctors serving in hospitals and having completed some service time there have been allowed to be transferred at their request to a hospital or health centre of fertile or problematic areas. It is the only possibility of switching. He covered a void at the Kalavryton Hospital that he went to. Secondly, I know that there was a fuss there because, in the process of moving this doctor, all five seats covered were - he resigned and another colleague who took it back from what I learned. Because he also went to a doctor, so the number he used to operate before the department filled out. On 30 March the colleague, who will be serving there, was appointed. From there on, and Xanthi's, like all the hospitals in the country, we support them as much as we can. And we support them with the funding that goes up to about half a million euros last year and with the CEDEFOP notice, where a doctor and three people will come to the hospital. From there on, and the hospital in Xanthi, like all the hospitals in the country, we support them as much as we can. And we support them with the funding that goes up to about half a million euros last year and with the CEDEFOP notice, where a doctor and three people will come to the hospital. Also, with regard to all the requests from the supplementary doctors who have made us by the hospital, both for urethology and radiodiagnostics, we have secured full credit. And once there are people who will be willing to go, we'll send them. That thing we've covered. On the other point you said in relation to the Health Centres, I would like to say that in the Health Centers and the Polyvalent Regional Medicines that have radiological equipment, their authorisation is to do with whether the rules of ionizing radiation are complied with and how the radiation machine is structured and organised in the area it is. Most of the old do not predict a position of radiologist. They work with radiological manufacturers and the opinion make it or the doctors who serve there - and I'm talking about pathologists or general doctors, so it happens - or, if there's anything more specific, it can be sent for opinion. That's how they work. Not all centres, including health centres, organic radiation diagnostics sites, as well as multi-powered regional hospitals. He's just under the supervision of the hospital, which they used to refer to, or the U.S.H. right now. From there on, I think that the way the situation is right now, with the arrival of the new subsidiary doctor, is at least at the level of operation that existed before. We have one issue here - and I say it on this occasion - because there is also a return. There are colleagues who have been appointed in remote areas - I want this to be heard, because it is a serious problem - in Skyros, for example, in Kythira or in some islands, with the commitment from the state - for years before 2010 I am speaking, in 2008, in 2007, in 2007 and so on - that they will go, sit five years and then have the right to be transferred. They're the only two counts that can be transferred to doctors. So you can leave the center hospital and go to some barren. Of course, very few do that. One of the very few was this colleague. She left Xanthi, from a town, and went to Kalavrita, to a mountainous place she needed. The second option is that which, unfortunately - and I say, unfortunately, because we have a great deal of trouble - we cannot implement. We must, however, implement it because people have gone and sat down another six years, another seven years, another eight years, and we do not move it, while making lasting applications, because if he leaves he is the only doctor of his specialty there. He went to sit five years and then moved somewhere downtown.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u53	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u54	So this thing must be solved, because we cannot condemn them to stay there permanently. And there's a mix-up: If you don't throw them out, you can't declare the place for someone else to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Cremastis Rhodes, as well as thirty-two students and two associates from the Old Psychological School, 2nd Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Publicsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the answers. I'd like to report you a few more problems at the Xanthi Hospital to make you a community of these. The whole hospital has ninety-seven doctor posts. Today the fifty-three of them are covered. In addition, only forty-four qualified persons are covered. Fourteen supplementary doctors amplify medical staff at various clinics. As you can see, the shortcomings are evident and you need to bend on the problems of the Xanthi hospital. Because it's not just Xanthi and her residents. It is the entire 4th Army Corps, it is its seat, it is the University, it is the School of Police, which today has foreign prisoners. We have a lot of problems and you have to look at them with sympathy. The Pathological Clinic, which is - as you know as a doctor - the real body of the hospital, fails to compile a news program for March. We've already had problems. I would not like to mention more numericals for doctors of pathological time economy. The hospital emergency department offers primary care. It updates daily and accepts on average two hundred patients in various specialties. The main burden is borne by the trainees. The NSA in Xanthi is not working. There's almost just one card. Finally, it remains the following question: why don't you give the doctors of the hospital of Xanthi, while the other doctors who serve in other hospitals in the remote areas are actually granted this privilege? I would like to mention three things concerning Evros and the health of Thrace, but also the other hospitals. Mr. Barriots has already mentioned the matter of the X-ray machines of the Stavros Niarchas Foundation. The same problem exists in Evros at the hospital in Alexandroupolis. Already the Association of Cancer patients and Friends of the Prefecture of Evros under the name “Continuing” has performed a relevant performance on you and we have this loose end. Evros Health Centers are down. I would like you to have your colleagues attend a conversation with the Internet of young people on the lack of drugs that is currently happening at the Orestiad Health Center. Finally, I would ask you to consider seriously the question of the administration of the University Hospital of Alexandroupolis. A true state of scientists, with incredible development prospects, you must endow it with the best possible commander. There is a rumor that you will bring a pediatrician as commander and president of the hospital. We welcome him as a doctor for the Paediatric Clinic. The responsibilities are very important and you should pay special attention, because, Mr President, it is the only hospital in the U.S. which is identified with a university hospital. And as you can see, it is a very large society, and it must be the one who assumes this responsibility, it must be distinguished from his legal, financial, but above all it must know how to run. A man who has not commanded himself cannot run two thousand workers - and not just - and a hospital which serves not only the Prefecture of Evros, but Macedonia and Thrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u57	Be well. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u58	I'll start with the last thing you said, Mr. Prisoner. Before I took over the Municipality of Sfakion, I hadn't run a municipality, and I was a doctor. But the first time I went out with 62%, the second time I went out with 96.5%. So I didn't have to have management degrees to run the city. Yes, this colleague is coming to Alexandroupolis University Hospital. It is a birth - nourishment of the ESS, it has full knowledge of the problems and it has, we believe, the ability to run the hospital properly. Besides, we're all judged. You, too, are judged as a member of the Greatest Opposition, and I as Minister. You are judged by the President of your party, I by the Prime Minister and the governors we choose - and we take the responsibility of choosing them - will be judged by us too. I'm telling you this, so we can close this thing down. Now for the rest you said in relation to the hospital, we're aware. You're not one of the hospitals that's in the worst condition in the country. And they show it the numbers you mentioned before. There are other hospitals which are more diagnosed and which are slowly healing them. Based on the proposals that the Health Region will make to us and the total number of permanent doctors in the 4th Health Region, we will soon see exactly what positions will be published, on the basis of the proposals we will have from the hospital players. On the subject of Radiology, I answered before. I don't have to repeat anything else. I think there was another issue you raised, which I do not remember at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u59	For the Orestian Health Center, which doesn't have the elementary drugs. In fact, I would ask you warmly to watch the internet conversation of young people, to see their anguish, frustration and indignation. It matters what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u60	All right, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u61	We'll see in particular what's going on. It is obviously a matter of management adequacy rather than financial support or that there are no resources. Right now and hospitals and U.S.H.s loaded with money are in their cash. Obviously, there is a question of management competence or in relation to contracts and others. That's the reality. We'll see, Mr. Treasury, and we'll answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. We will now discuss the 20th question under number 686/21-3-2016 in the Second Cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the Emergency Department of the Rhodes Hospital. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I am attending the sitting from my office in the House and I have heard Mr Polakis answering Mr Consola for the Rhodes Hospital and his problems. I can assure you that the Ministry of Health has lost all contact with reality. The numbers prosper, they prosper - if you like - its services, but he has lost all contact with reality. I stress this because I, as you know, am an active doctor who enters hospitals, takes part in the councils for the sick, sees how the hospitals move, and I don't speak from home. So why has he lost all contact with reality? For about two months ago, in the same Chamber, I heard the same figures, and I told Mr Polakis, "You should go tomorrow morning to the hospital in Rhodes, see that there is none of what you say." Then I received a letter from the head of the Rhodes Hospital - Emergency Departments - to which he says to me protesting: "Mr. Professor, it is not just the haematological laboratory that has the problem. The whole hospital's in trouble, and in particular, the Emergency Department. You know, no invention program can be filed and the department remains uncovered by pathologists and surgeons. Professor, at that time, but today, I see that you are giving the haematological priority to you and perhaps because of specialty." That's what my colleague, TLP director, says. And it continues: “For this reason if you really want to help the hospital in Rhodes, send doctors. We need three pathologists for the TLP and two more pathologists for the pathological clinics. We also need two surgeons for the TLP. Furthermore, we need support for nurses, to have another nurse or nurse on each shift, as well as an administrative officer on each shift to operate the sorting department and the CPI secretariat on the electronic medical file. If you really want to help, these must be what you need to ask.’ And it ends with this: "As a cardiologist you are, remember that we who work at the TLP are the first to see the heart attack. We're facing death. Survival of these patients depends mainly on early and proper diagnosis. They're losing human lives. With indignation and a feeling of shame over the hospital in which I serve, Gerasclis Antonios, Director of TLP." I'll submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u64	Okay, Mr. President. Looks like we have a conference for the hospital in Rhodes today with the interrogational questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u65	But it's a matter of life and death.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u66	Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u67	Also, I'm going to file a letter from prosecutor Rhodes to the Ministry that puts them before their responsibilities for human life, following a protest by doctors from the hospital in Rhodes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u68	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u69	I'm finishing up and I'm going to go on in my dentistry. I would like to close by saying this: Health problems are easy and understandable to solve with numbers. However, numbers do not help to save human lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u70	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u71	Because I said it before, I won't repeat it again. I'll just stand in two, three points. First of all, Mr President, Professor, I have not really been in touch with the truth and as Minister I am going without making it. I've been to several hospitals and I know very well what's going on. Secondly, others were taking on the welfare of numbers and the destruction of people. My numbers are people who will strengthen hospitals, as are the hospital in special homeland. Of course, you were Minister and should have supported it more. As I said before, you have taken twenty-one people who are starting to be appointed since the November announcement. You're going to take 12 permanent medical posts - I mean the Hospital of Rhodes, not you - and twenty-five people nursing staff from the announcements that are coming out now. He's taken from CDC starting and assigned, two atoms of doctors, eight nurses and one for the coronary unit. Because you have read a text and because some pieces in the local press have now discovered - not by themselves, of course, why a hand will have come in to get out like this - the destruction of health, I will also read you a report - I had answered you last time - in relation to the haematological type: The problem was created because the doctors who are serving took a sick leave that ended and the other one is absent on child rearing leave. And then, in March, it came out that "here we are destroyed, it doesn't work..." etc. You know very well that immediately the 2nd Ministry of Piraeus and the Aegean has been in touch with Mr. Aidas Antoniadis from "Attica, Director of Cardiology - you know him - to go down to Rhodes for some time to cover the issue of haematologicals. As soon as we inform the 'governments' of the decision that Mr Antoniadis is going to cover the other with a sick leave, what are they telling us? "Don't go down yet, there's a problem in the lamp. We have to fix it." We're making the lamp clean Monday. Once we're making the lamp, we're told: "Oh, you know, there's a problem on the board as well." And we move back clean Monday and make the board. So, what was it working before? Let me get this straight. What was it working before? And as if these are not enough, as soon as we made the plate and the lamp, we were told, "Don't come down, because we don't have any materials." So someone's working on someone. We took the materials and went down. These are, however, detailed in the response of the 2nd Health Region to what happened from 16 March to 21 March, which was the final decision to come down and help the hemodynamics by Mr Antoniadis. That's the reality. Is that what he saw anywhere the light of publicity, or did he see that 'we don't have' and 'we can't'? And how did he work without all this? How did he work without all this? And who told us all this? When they tell us something about this damage, we intervene immediately. Why didn't they tell us that anywhere? And why would they say so in the Health Region, in the administration - will they not tell the Minister - after he said, 'I send Mr Antoniadis down'? "I don't have a lamp, it's a problem with the board, I don't have any materials." So, what was he working before? And I'll smell my nails or the Chief of the Health Region what's missing from where he's missing? Anyway, the new commander's here now at the hospital. With that, I believe we should have the information we need and the organization of the things we need to do. That's why I said the rest before and don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u72	You have the floor, Mr. Kremastine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u73	I'm coming back with the same pattern, i.e. the contact's gone. I don't question what the Minister says. To God! But that's not it. Why isn't that? Because the haemodynamic had four doctors and slowly declined, became three, became two - for various reasons - one became one, became one. It practically didn't work. Whether the U.S.P.D. can't communicate with the hospital or who's responsible, it's probably the agency's fault. Check this out. It was neither the parliament nor the President of Parliament nor the Minister. It's the Minister's fault he doesn't control his services. What he's told is not reality. Four doctors trained, one got transferred, the other, as he said, is absent - we talked about it before, I do not repeat - indeed it is. And why did this happen? Because a journalist had a heart attack and a important person of Rhodes was invaded and went to the hospital and found nothing. And I ask - and I say this for the sake of your own, that is, the Ministry - do you imagine that tomorrow it was not the case - that a foreign minister or a famous actor - who exist - would take him to Antalya to be coronary to the infarction and no one knows anything about it? The DSOs must have daily contact with the problems of hospitals. Of course the Minister is in charge of the Ministry, he is not responsible for the hospital, to know what happened to the plaque and the first and second, much more so that was not exactly the case, but that is not our concern, whether the lamp was burned or not. But if it happened like this - which did not happen, but I say it happened - the relevant agencies had to be made aware of who it was to blame. And that's what you need to see. But what I am saying to you - and I also ask the Ministry to do - is that in order to work the haemodynamics now, it is not enough for one volunteer who has been found in some way, but at least two doctors who have been trained in haemodynamics must be seconded. So that the infarction will go and be treated, that the man dies because the haemodynamics did not work or have no doctor. If there's only one doctor, it's equal to a doctor, much more if he comes four days a week. The haemodynamics want a 24-hour operation in a hospital like this. So you must urgently tell the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to secure two stable doctors until you see what is going on and the licensee who have been licensed, who have gone to training - I do not know exactly what happened - until the department is back in operation. We urgently need two doctors right now. Can they be secured by the U.S., by all the hospitals in the country, by the center? Because, I repeat, it is not Rhodes, it is not the citizens of Rhodes, it is the image of the four million people who arrive in Rhodes every year and live there. It's the image of the country. It is not a problem that a local MEP is currently somehow magnifying it for political reasons. That's not the problem. That's why I told the Minister last time, Mr. Polakis, it's nice what you're saying, your services tell you, tomorrow morning take the plane down, find the doctors who protest and tell them "Come tell me the reality". And then do those other things. Get rid of each other, take each other, do whatever you want. That's what I told you next time, that's what I'm saying now. I'm neither reproach nor attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u75	I guess we're working on the territory of parallel monologues, Mr. President. At the cardioological clinic at the General Hospital of Rhodes, they serve five doctors. Of the servants, one is two days away each week in order to retrain the coronary. One got sick leave, and the other got a child's license. These two happened in March. So one who took the sickle-haired one turned, the other with the child’s upbringing is missing. So the others are serving and we have also sent an ancillary cardiologist. We have also appointed a second doctor - who has not accepted - and we have reappointed another one, and have even declared an ancillary cardiologist for Rhodes. The appropriations for them, as well as for other posts, are fully guaranteed. If there is availability from the cardiologists, the colleagues who have finished and been specialized, the next morning they can go. As you know - and we are making a very great effort - position has come out for an adjuvant cardiologist in Rhodes. Whoever says it will go. From there on, what I said in relation to the movement of Mr Antoniadis and what he preceded in relation to plaques, materials, lamps, etc. is entirely true. It's fully confirmed. I believe that now, with the installation of the new administration and the hospital in Rhodes, and in the Second Health Region, we will never get any rest here again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. The sixteenth question under number 621/7-2016 will be discussed in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health on the project of the construction of the new wing of the Hospital of Amalialada. Mrs Georgopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issues of the operation of the Amalada Hospital these days are at the top of the public debate either from real interest or from a small political interest. In addition to the subject of this question for the new wing, I would like you to inform me, because we are being watched, as you know, by my fellow citizens in Elias, around the planning of the Ministry for the overall operation of the Amalada Hospital. Minister, according to an Act of 2011 of the Board of Directors of the Amalada General Hospital, which I will present in the Minutes, a study was carried out in 2004 to build a new hospital's expansion wing to house a Department of Emergency on the ground floor, electromechanical installations - morgue in the basement and a unit of Increased Care for three centuries of surgery and sterilization on the first floor. Let me point out here that the project has been financed by the public investment programme and that the ground floor and basement have been built so far. The initial study was subsequently divided into two phases and it is important to know why this happened. The question of parliamentary scrutiny also arises, because while the new wing has not been delivered to date, it has become its inauguration two years ago by the then municipality of Ilida. In particular, on 11-05-2014, the Minister of Health, Mr. Georgiadis, participated in a virtual opening of the Amaliada Hospital on the eve of municipal elections, although he was deprived of medical and other equipment, with loan facilities. I wonder why all the government MPs in the law, government officials in the law, were invited to celebrate the new wing. What exactly did the Minister do in this fieste, representing the government at the time? He was probably there to declare the unforgettable that he had been informed by his technical services that the new "Evangelism". Minister, for the implementation of the "virtual" inaugurations, there was a temporary transfer of equipment, beds and medical equipment from the General Hospital of Tower and even asked the current Mayor of Ilidas to pay for the transfer, according to a public statement. Are there any documents on this transfer and who's in charge of paying? In my speech in the virtual opening I pointed out how the work had not been completed, there was no necessary equipment and that there was evidence of drunkenness and minor partitioning benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u78	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u79	I'll be done. Unfortunately, I was fully confirmed, as twenty months after the new wing of the Amalada Hospital is tightly closed and I submit a relevant post. [[At this point, the Member, Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The current municipal authority on its part says that a recapitulative work plan has been submitted by the technical service of the Municipality, which seems to require about 650,000 euros for the completion of the project and new integration into the Public Investment Programme and that there are problems with electricity supply. I address two questions: What stage are the two phases of the new wing? What are the conditions for the completion of the work and functioning? What is the amount of money that has been spent to date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u80	Put a perfect one on it. You left the questions lately, you said the whole story before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, who is responsible for the non-completion of the project and the failure of the new wing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you for the question, comrade. It is clear that there has been an election show, now what can we say? From this study of the evidence I saw, this work was in two phases, first and second. The first phase was a budget of EUR 2,771,000 with an endless remnant of EUR 244 000. The second phase was EUR 2,356,000 with an endless remnant of EUR 464,000. The contractor for the first phase of the project, because he was from a Public Investment Program not a NSRF, did this: When he filed an account - because, as I see it, one contract was signed in 2004 and the other in 2008, and we have arrived in 2016 - to be paid and not paid in two months, he stopped work. This thing has taken a decade since I can see it. Evidently then the construction of the torso of the building, etc., was completed. and because they understood that the elections were coming too, the Ministry's political leadership was a reality, then in cooperation with the municipality, because they are not alone. A body of project implementation is the municipality as far as I see it here. Well, look, to complete the project - to be clear - there needs to be disbursement from the Public Investment Program. So there must be a communication from the Ministry of Health and the Municipality, of course, from there with the Ministry of Development and Infrastructure, with Mr. Haritsis, to commit this amount to the completion of the project. Because it is not a project that can become a bridge and be integrated into a European programme, etc. It has been financed under the Public Investment Programme. Now, with regard to the other things you said before about the Amalada Hospital, we also increased the grant there for this year. He was appointed an adjunct doctor, the surgeon for whom there was a great need. We have committed appropriations to appoint five other auxiliary doctors requested by the hospital. Right now, I think there's a gynaecologist's list to go. The other three who have been requested, anesthesiologist, pathologist, cardiologist, are not on the list. Once he's found, he'll go. We have given some staff of the five hundred and eighty-five assistants and one PP since the first call. Now, based on the proposals of the health district, we will see who goes to the Amalada Hospital. I'm sure some doctors will go to permanent positions and we'll see what other staff will go according to the needs of the Health Region report and according to what the HR administration will suggest to us and the new hospital administrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u84	Mrs Eustathia Georgopoulos - Saltari has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you know, many times since the emergence of a subject is revealed and a number of other issues have been raised. In particular, because we hear that the present government is trying to control the information, I inform the National Representation that on the day of these virtual inaugurations, which we described before, in the large systemic media, in their news releases and on their websites, because I protested about this established fiesta, they reproduced the following: "Adoi's revenge: Appointment for him, "sons" for a SYRIZA MP." I'll submit the relevant report to the Minutes. I have submitted a complaint from the 4-7-2014 National Broadcasting Council and so far I have not yet received any information. I'm telling you this about restoring reality. Referring to the substance of the matter, I would like you to inform the National Representation if information is correct that, while the post-separate project has been given to two different consortia, the special proxy, representative and representative of the consortium is the same person to them. I ask what that means. I am also telling the House that the Department of Technical Services of the Municipality of Ilida with its document from 9-6-2015 - which I will present in the Minutes - to the Economic Commission of the same Municipality mentions the need for a lawyer to provide support to the municipality and the technical service address for the resolution of issues relating to these projects. The document also expressly states that there is a delay in their closure. According to a decision of 2015 of the Economic Commission meeting, a lawyer was appointed. The question arises of why the appointment of a lawyer was considered necessary. Mr Minister, from what you have said so far, it appears that you are closely following the completion of the project and that you will check in depth all the bad texts. However, since citizens now want commitments from the present government, because they know that it cares about the public interest, I would ask you to speed up all the above procedures and to show practical support for the better functioning of the Amalada Hospital - as you have mentioned, but we expect to see the follow-up - and more generally the sensitive social health sector in the Prefecture of Elias. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Georgopoulos. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u87	From the information I have, from the services in particular, for the first part of the project, the first phase, an extension of the duration up to 31-7-2016 has been granted. The 11th account has been repaid and the project will be relaunched for this part. So obviously for this part, which is the smallest money, they probably have secured the credit. The other, for the second phase of the project, after the first project has been relaunched, will recommend the approval of an extension for the completion of the project. We'll keep a close eye on this, my colleague, the work. It must be truly completed and completed rather than virtually or by transferring hotel equipment or electromechanical from elsewhere, because the lies last a few days and it seems. Besides, society sees that there. And since we've said that we're only going to open hospitals, we're not going to close hospitals, we want this to be one of what we're going to open up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the 20th under number 625/7-2016 a timely question from the second cycle of the Member of the Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, about the shortcomings in the hospital and, more generally, the public health sector in Lesvos. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. This is, of course, the fourth or fifth postponement and the question is finally being discussed. The situation in the public health sector and in Lesvos, hospitals, hospitals, health centres, regional hospitals and rural hospitals is unacceptable, as a result of the anti-grassroots policy implemented by the current government, in line with the guidelines of the European Union. There are huge shortcomings in personnel of all specialties, in equipment, infrastructure, and even in elementary consumables, in the name of saving resources, in order to provide creditors and capital in general, to such an extent that several times they have been paid with lives or with incurable disabilities. This situation, known to the government, also takes dramatic proportions due to refugees and immigrants arriving in Lesvos every day in a terrible situation. Any work offered in these circumstances by the public health sector - and this is huge - is due to the lack of workers in this area. Indicative of the situation is that a few days ago in Mytilini we grieved the death of another man, a young man thirty-eight years old, who was beyond the local channel, due to a lack of hemodynamic equipment and, in particular, a coroner, to treat the infarction, which he had suffered, and the loss of critical time for his transfer to a hospital in Athens. Indeed, it is incomprehensible, criminal, that the islands and even the size of Lesvos are missing, even the equipment necessary to deal with emergencies and its supply depends on each other's charity. A few days ago, too, it became forced for a patient from Lemnos to Thessaloniki, due to a lack of anesthetics at the Hospital of Limnos. [[At this point the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] So we ask you, Minister: What measures will you take to provide hemodynamic equipment at the Hospital of Lesbos, as well as to deal with other major shortages in staff, equipment and infrastructure, both at the Hospital of Lesbos and at the other hospitals on the islands of North and East Aegean, such as in Limnos, Chios, Samos, Ikaria, for Fournos, etc.Huh? For example, in Samos the shortages in medical, nursing and auxiliary staff are well above a hundred people, they are a hundred and twelve in fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u91	To repeat here a series of things I said before, more localized for this hospital. Firstly, we increased about half a million euros to finance the hospital from the state budget. Secondly, we have covered almost all the requests - which have not been met, have refused to go - to subsidiary doctors who came from the hospital. Of the two oldest notices you have ten OH and OHP staff appointed directly, finals have emerged. To the five hundred and eighty-five assistants, who have now been proclaimed, you know, the contract was concluded the day before yesterday, is a total of thirteen people, who are medical assistants, a nursing care assistant, a obstetrician, a radiologist, a radiologist, a medical device operator, with whom we are strengthening laboratories. From the CRF that starts to come, you get two doctors for the unit and six for the intensive. Where we haven't appointed a subsidiary, it's because there's no doctor on the list. I think that after several years in your hospital, from what the administration has so far said, not the one we have put, too many gaps have been covered, even in this way. We'll also cover with permanent staff from the new proclamation that exists. Now, as far as you say, for this particular, Mr Tassos, I understand it, but there was no request, not this year, nor in 2010, nor in 2011, nor 2012, nor in 2013, for the provision of haematological coronary equipment at the Hospital of Mytilini. There has been no such request. The issue has come to the surface with this issue. The patient there did thrombolysis, from what we have learned, had about seven to eight opposings later, severed the next day with C-130 in Athens. He had to do thrombolysis since there was no such equipment there. We are not at first negative, but it has never been put by the hospital administrations that it needs such a thing there. Now we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u93	So, you mean to say that missing coroner isn't an objective shortage? The fact that the hospital administration didn't put it, I don't know for what reasons, does that mean that this lack is not obvious and that it shouldn't be covered? And the question is, what about this issue? We want a concrete answer and not 'we will look into it and see it'. We want a concrete answer. That's the expert. As far as general is concerned, it is not a matter of giving the minimum, such as the minimum guaranteed income, to the health sector to the people of that country. The question is to offer as far as possible the science currently provides to every man. That's the point. Of course, taking 13 people as subsidiary when there are too many in many areas, and of course not with 'block' relationships, but with permanent positions, does not solve the problem. Twenty thousand workers have left the health sector. You have announced the four and a half thousand, which has never been hired, but it has also been done, is a drop in the ocean compared to those who have left to meet the basic needs of our country's population in the field of health. And why is that so? Because you continue, like the previous ones, the same health policy. What's this policy doing? It also merchandises health, because in capitalism everything is commodity, and health could not be out of it, even when health, welfare, medicine are high-efficiency fields for capital. The capital, not only wants to get rid of them, but wants to do another field of profit. It is therefore the policy you are implementing that cannot objectively solve the problem. That's the point. And if you do not decide to collide with this policy, we will come back every day and tell you the problems and you will tell us: "We do what we can, but what we can do, these are the possibilities we have. We can't do any more." This, of course, is an option, because there is money and there is too much, but too much. I've said it a thousand times that sixty-two people have as much wealth as half the population of the earth. So do not constantly invoke that there is no money. Money is too much, but it's concentrated in the hands of a handful of people. That's the point. And if there is no conflict, then, with this situation, with this system, problems in the health sector will not be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, the conflict is not brought about by the constant invocation, but by the growth of the revolutionary subject, the creation of the front that decides. Invoking it all the time and confronting it with the efforts of the improvement measures we are taking is a political mistake. When you have a society that has hit her like the octopus five years down and does not see small steps to improve her situation, why convince her about the revolution, Mr. Tassos? Through what connection will he be persuaded?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u96	You weaken that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u97	Wait a minute. I heard you. And I'll answer you at this wavelength, because don't think that you're more left than we are, or that your heart beats left of ours, to explain and not be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u98	Everyone, as you have said, is judged by his actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u99	No, wait a minute. I didn't cut you and don't get upset. Yes, it is clear that we have a different concept of how politics is made. The notion that the struggle is long, the correlations are difficult, that it is a long and difficult struggle and that the objective conditions have not matured yet, so I do nothing. Yes, it comes in uncompromising conflict with what we have, which says that at the present time, I will try to create cracks, delay measures, improve the situation of people through them, convince them to come along with such a perception that it will overthrow these sixty-two. Otherwise, you'll say nicely that they have sixty-two wealth, and they'll move your handkerchief and you'll sit here and you'll say it and you'll think you've done your duty. As far as the other particular issue is concerned, no, I cannot answer you today if we are going to put haematologically into Mytilini and the reason is very specific. She's gone to Kos, and she's gone to Samos. She's gone everywhere. It's not rational - and not in the sense of money - where you put some of these specialized structures, because you have to cover a population. With this logic, as you put it, we should have a neurosurgeon on every Aegean island, because in summer it has a lot of tourism, they rent a lot of machines, the tourists are killed, so they need epidurals and at least one on each island to exist. This thing can't be done. He wants a transport system. That's right. I don't make a right-wing derogation with what I'm saying. It is true that this is a scientific perception and a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u100	No, you're saying and you're judged of her, as you said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u101	This is in relation to this particular issue. For the rest, the Mytilene Hospital this year and with this story with the refugee has been reinforced enough, and this also appears from the writings of the previous administration, not the one we have put in, but from the previous one, that a number of hospital problems have actually been covered for the first time in recent years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. The second, with number 762/8-4-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of MP Kavala of the New Democracy, Nicholas Panagiotopoulos, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the urgent coverage of the needs of refugees and migrants hosted in the Municipality of Kavala and Pangaiou, is not discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Deputy Minister. The sixth question under number 766/11-4-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "uncontrolled action of the Alps", is not discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The ninth under number 729/1-4-2016 topical question by MP Carditsa of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the establishment of a Centre for Immigration of Migrants at the Carditsa Police School, is not being discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Minister. The third, with number 764/8-4-2016, is the first-round question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the control of the conditions for the movement of refugees and migrants from Chios to Lero, is not discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Minister. That question is mine. It's to the Minister of the Interior and it's more concerned with the intervention of MATs. Because the MATs do well and do not intervene for the refugees, but they must not intervene against the citizens as well. And that's what happened to Lero and Kos. This is an issue that needs to be discussed. In other words, it is a question more to Mr Toska and less to Mr Muzala. The first, with number 763/8-4-2016, is the second question of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgantas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the Centre for the Open Structure of Hospitable Hershua. The eighth under No 726/1-4-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the removal of Greek citizenship from the ex-SRF, is not discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The tenth under number 724/31-3-2016 a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds and failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship, is not discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The seventh under number 759/6-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELBO), is not being discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The fourth, with number 760/7-4-2016, topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the River Mr. Spyridonos Danelis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the decision of the Committee on Budget of the European Parliament to remove the administrative arm of the European Network and Communications Security Agency (ENISA) from Heraklion, Crete, in Athens, is not discussed due to the misguided obligations of the Minister. The fifth under number 756/5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the intentions of the Ministry for the withdrawal of the joint Ministerial Decision amending the provisions of the Code of Food and Drinks on “Greek yogurt”, are not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who will be outside Athens. The fifth under number 758/6-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of the Union of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the manufacture of Greek yoghurt from milk powder, is not discussed for the same reason. The first question under number 1829/10-12-2015 question of petitions by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia, is not discussed due to the absence of Minister Xydakis abroad. The nineteenth under number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB, is also not discussed. Finally, the first question under number 765/11-4-2016 of the First Cycle of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning complaints about the use of the services of the Municipality of Saronicos, on the election needs of the president of the Local Organisation of NG, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Member of Parliament. We shall now proceed to the debate on the second question by No 2921/5-2-2016 question by Mr Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health on the establishment of an ambulance at the Rafina Health Centre. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u103	After reading the list, Mr President, it seems to be a regular practice that questions which are postponed to be multiples of those answered. Minister, the question that I asked you is awkward for the Rafina-Pickermiou region, and I think that if you can intervene, you will give a solution that will really relieve the region. I explain: in Rafina, we have a population of twenty-thousand people who are more than tripling in the summer. We also have, through the port of Rafina, the passage of about one million eight hundred thousand travelers. You know, in particular, during the summer months there is the inseparable at the port. Rafina will also welcome refugees following the unanimous decision of the Municipality of Painting on the children's camps on the border of the municipality of Rafina and where it will settle, there will be a refugee camp. That's extra. It is an additional element, which I quote, which was not in all these months that the Mayor Rafina, on the other hand, is addressed to the President of the EMCDDA. I think he has seen you as well, but with other colleagues he has very much tried to get an ambulance in the area. You said before you were a doctor. So you understand very well how important it is, given that there is and has been the assurance from the Minister to the President of the EMCDDA that there is a safe space and all the equipment and facilities of the people of the EMCDDA there. Where? The Rafinas Health Center. This is a full centre, which is renovated and which serves the region very well in the morning, but unfortunately, Minister, it does not exist and has not joined the 24-hour on-call. If you want to tell me something about it, too. I think it's important to see it again. And I don't want to go to reason that one municipality is better than the other. Everyone needs it, and this region, Eastern Attica, is an area that is full of people. It's an area where in the summer, as I told you, it has more than double the population and it has a great need. However, from there on, it is not possible for other municipalities to have an ambulance and not to have the municipality Rafina - Pikermio, which also has the port in the area. I would like to ask you to give me a positive answer, because it is a problem that goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u105	Look, Mrs Christophilopoulou, because I requested information from the President of the EMCDDA about this, in order to meet the needs of the wider Rafina - Pickermiou, the following EMCDDA ambulances in relation to their area of responsibility: First, an ambulance in the Rafina - Nea Macri - Marathon, which is stationed outside the old American Base in New Makri. Second, ambulance with Pickermi - Spata - Luca, which is stationed in Spata. Thirdly, an ambulance with a cover area of Geraka - Anthusa - Pallini, based in Pallini. Fourthly, an ambulance with a floor area of Cross - Sweet Waters - Painland, which is also close to Pallini and stops there. Fifth, Coroppi - Markopoulos - Porto Raftis, based in Koropi. And sixthly, a mobile Artemis unit starting in Artemis and a coverage sector throughout the wider region, which is for heavier incidents. I know the problem that has been created. On the substance of the safety problem of the movement of potential patients there is no such coverage. None! The issue is that they want to park in Rafina and not in five kilometres. Look, the Minister should order where the NSA will park his ambulances, that's not right. He must have the image. In other words, the EAW, which knows the milestones, knows where the incidents come from and has its word that covers it in this way, has its word to define it. That's why he's doing it, and that's why he's going to keep going. You want me to step in and tell them what? That you get ambulances from Pickermi and put it in Rafina why do they want to see it there in front of them? I don't think it's right or reasonable. Secondly, since no question has been raised, as far as I know, regarding the fact that he has been late in going or that we have a problem or that he is not going, I have to say that you have ambulances in the wider area and a mobile unit in it. Now for the other thing you say, yes, there is, Mrs Christophilopoulou, from the first Health Area, a design of overlapping health centers, where they exist, and possibly some of them will be in a 24-hour operation, just to meet the needs of the second Athens that is slowly built throughout that part or developed in the previous years. We will soon be able to make such announcements in the context of the overall programming to meet primary care needs across the wider region. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u106	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u107	Mr Minister, it is not exactly what you have been told, and I can see that as a resident.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u108	That's the official evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u109	I do not doubt that you have told me things you have been informed about. But I would like to tell you that because I am from there and I represent the area is not so simple to say that the Municipality of Spata - Artemis, for example, with the Municipality of Rafina, are homogeneous. They are also a matter of roads and time. And because you mentioned that there was no problem, I would like to tell you this, which I would not say, because no one knows when we have a death, if any of our fellow citizens lost their lives, and they would have won it if they had come and there was the ambulance in three minutes and not in half an hour. At the end of February, Minister, an important local man was lost, a man who also had action in sports clubs, a fan in the good sense of the term and lost a heart attack. I can't know and I don't want to get into this and it's not appropriate, but it's done the ambulance more than half an hour. I'm saying that because you told me it was next door. It's not next door. And so it's not just a matter of seeing it. It is no accident that he has returned and returned, and after the end of February there was a new impact on the EAW. Look at it, if you want, and I will try as a member of the region to inform the mayor and to re-examination to the EAW. Furthermore, for the answer you gave me, because you said in a previous written reply that you have moved to the Raphna Health Center to appoint subsidiary doctors, doctors and gynecologists - I would like to inform you that at the moment, until now, this has not been completed. The health centre has too many people, as I said, who visits it and is excellent. In fact, we also had a colleague from the ruling majority, a fellow doctor from your own party who visited the health centre and saw with his eyes exactly how good this health centre is. It is a pity not to exploit a public property in the best possible way. If you want, in your dentistry, answer for both of them. Please be very warm to see the matter again. It's not just the look. I wouldn't come to the House to ask you for anything on the look. If anything brought me to Parliament for this, it is exactly this incident that I told you and the fact that people are afraid of the refugee camp that will go there through the city of Painting, that we will have problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u110	Mr Polakis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u111	The last thing you said, regarding the health centre and the staff, I'll see. What I know is that whatever requests we have been asked for, we have covered them either at the level of the CTAs or by appointments of subsidiary doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u112	They haven't gone yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u113	He may have been appointed and may not have accepted and moved on to the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u114	That's why I'm thinking you should see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u115	This could happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u116	Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u117	Now, on the other issue, Mrs Christophilopoulou, what can I tell you? As the EAW says, it considers the area to be fully covered. We'll see it again. I will also speak with the President of the EKP, but I think that the service itself, which does the job, must also have the responsibility to cover the way it chooses the area to which it is addressed. So, who's better than EKAV's service, who knows where he has incidents, so where does he have to set up the ambulances, where he's got to put them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u118	So you don't need your supervision? Don't you need your intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u119	No, it's okay. I asked them and they said, 'Have been covered'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u120	Why are you supervising then? You're supervising Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u121	I know what I am. I asked them and they said: 'Have been covered, there is no question. It is a question of confrontation where the ambulance will stand." That's my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u122	Look it up a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u123	So if it's an ambulance four miles away or five, he can't get him out of the port?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u124	But I told you one incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u125	This could be done if the ambulance, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, was damaged that day. Don't take the exception to define the rule. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u126	We move to the fourth with number 769/11-4-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the increase of tickets in the country's archaeological sites and museums. The Minister will answer Mr Baltas. Please, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since 1 April visitors of archaeological sites and museums throughout the country pay expensive tickets for a visit. From the Acropolis and all the neighbouring archaeological sites to Olympia, Knossos and Spinalonga, increases are up to 300%. Elevations for visitors over 65 years of age, who will pay EUR 8 instead of EUR 3. There are also spectacular increases in the single ticket. For example, the single in the Acropolis cost 12 euros and allowed for a visit to the adjacent archaeological sites. Noteworthy, in all these archaeological sites around the Acropolis, along with the Acropolis, 25% of all visitors are recorded throughout the country. With new prices the cost for all monuments will be EUR 52. So the single one, from 25 euros, goes to 30. Also, the combined visit, i.e. the single ticket, in the museums of Heraklion and Knossos will cost 16 euros from 10 euros. The reactions are many and justifiable. Visitors will be forced to put a deep hand in the pocket. It will also be a burden on imported and internal tourism - those who can make internal tourism today, because it is a simple dream. It will hit workers' strata involved in tourism, small accommodations, taxis, tour guides, people in the food sector and too many others. It is ridiculous to say that tourists themselves are encouraging us to increase the ticket, since in the rest of Europe it is more than twice as much, as ridiculous as by evil is the argument that this increase will have direct recompense for the proper functioning of museums and archaeological sites. No, Minister! This revenue will go for the repayment of the debt. You are implementing a measure which has been incorporated into the Memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would remind you - in order not to blame you - that it was your announcement in the reading of the programme statements, that this was included in the Baroufakis email to the institutions, where the revenue from museums and archaeological sites would be reserved for debt repayment. Deficiencies in staff, cleaners, guardians, closed rooms, museums and archaeological sites are the result of sub-financing and staff recruitment cuts to serve exactly these monumental and anti-grass policies. We don't think now the pain has caught you for this thing. After all, he has never accepted a single euro for the infrastructure necessary for visitors. This unacceptable measure, therefore, is not just an accidental move by the government in trying to find some equivalent measures to increase revenues, such as the increase in VAT on education or the ticket to hospitals. This move is part of a more general planning of the government and the European Union, so that culture can be a field of profit for the large capital. The aim is the business of archaeological sites and museums with their so-called "self-finance" on the one hand and the carpeting of visitors on the other, to infiltrate business groups. So we ask you, Minister: What measures and decisions will you take to withdraw, after the overall outcry that exists, immediately the measure of increasing tickets to the archaeological sites and museums in the country? Secondly, what measures will you take to establish free and free access to the archaeological sites and museums throughout the year and to stop all business activities in culture by upgrading, adequate staffing with permanent staff of the services of antiquities and museums and exclusively state funding? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, fifty one student and three teachers from the High School of Protosanis Dramas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You should be aware, children, that you are following parliamentary scrutiny, where Members come and ask the ministers on various issues, who are answering these issues. For this reason, the House today is not in plenary and quorum. It's a special session. Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Collegiate, thank you for your question. There are a number of problems which are more general - let us say that - and a more general sense of philosophy and perception. I shall refer very quickly, because this is not the space of the House to discuss these issues. Obviously, you agree with me, I imagine, that Greece is gifted in terms of goods of historical heritage, more perhaps than any other country on the planet. These products of our heritage, the goods that we are all enthusiastic about, and we are proud of them, we see that they gather tourists from all the countries of the world, not only to admire them instantly but also to join a whole story, which has something to do with our own history, this country's history. It's obvious that we're living in a regime of capitalism. In this sense, as you say - and I have no objections - I have no objections to this regime, everything is being done in merchandise. Under this Treaty, therefore, a government because it is and acts under certain circumstances is not in a situation which would allow it to abolish its respective relations by decree. But it is obliged to submit - we say - in this situation, namely that things have a price and that they have to be moved. What about prices in archaeological sites? Prices were unacceptablely low in the sense that they did not correspond to prices from any other country or world. They have been priced under this situation for many years. It was a price they couldn't stand. The Ministry has created a Committee on Economic Policy, to study as far as possible what reasonable increases could be made in tickets so that even the visitor does not overcharge himself and the Greeks do not pay the same money throughout the year - why we must distinguish tourists from non-Tourist period - and how our categories of fellow citizens who have free access to archaeological sites will be widened. The results of this study are the tickets we have at the moment. They are tickets that are not expensive at all, in whatever sense, in whatever measure and in which comparison. They are tickets that are not particularly burdened by anyone who wants to visit the archaeological sites. There are always wide categories of our fellow citizens who can visit the archaeological sites without paying. That's about politics. If you want to get into the details, I'll say a few more words in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u131	Minister, yes, it is as you say, cultural heritage within centuries is an achievement that belongs to our people, and he must without doubt have access to these creations. You have an honesty in your word. The truth is that, after you have confessed that your Government is subject to market rules, to capitalism, which considers cultural commodity. Didn't you say? In fact, by closing your position you said that tickets are not expensive at all, they are accessible to wide population categories. And I ask you: the unemployed, the worker, the poor farmer, who is suffering today at these prices - here with the previous ones has not had the opportunity - how will he be able to access archaeological sites? So it is very specific that this government's class choice is made. And here we are talking about a policy of total degradation and underfunding in the Antiquities Divisions and about the invasion of business groups and non-governmental organisations in the management of cultural heritage. It has, of course, been implemented by previous governments and continues by today. It has a significant impact on workers in Culture, on the promotion of the cultural wealth of our country. So such a choice, such a policy, such measures lead to de facto the commercialisation of social goods, such as Culture, and will also lead to the overthrow of workers' working relations in the Ministry of Culture. Workers at the Ministry of Culture know very well that both with the Community Support Frameworks and with the old NSRP, but also with the new NSRP, the involvement of individuals in the protection, promotion and management of antiquities with contractors, charities, NGOs and others is being strengthened. The results are visible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't want to waste time. Minister, I told you in my prototype - and you agreed, of course - that this is all an area of profit for big capital. How? There are too many ways. One will say that the JRC is exaggerating, 'all there is getting it'. No, there are very specific examples. I give you an example, to see how the large capital will penetrate in the field of culture. It has been submitted to the University of Crete by the family Angelopoulou - with the consent of the Rectoral Authorities - for the concession of the old buildings of the University of Crete bordering Knossos - 1 and 2 archaeological Zone, be careful! - to invest EUR 25 to 30 million with an annual rent of EUR 500,000. I say this to see how underfunding universities eventually leads them to work, to think, to operate under market rules. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With this investment - I conclude, Mr President - the land use is changing. Commercial centers will be built next to Knossos - be careful! - and amusement centers, with what aim? The emergence of culture or profitability? So we don't fool ourselves now, they're obviously for the profit. This investment, therefore, shows the direction in which the current government is moving and that will certainly be generalised. Of course, two years ago I remember, because I am from Heraklion, SYRIZA and his youth at the universities strongly condemned the development and involvement of universities in such business activities. So, with this policy, does SYRIZA today serve science, arts, culture, man, subjecting people's needs to profit? There is the case of the municipalities. All municipalities have run now to say: 'Yes, we have to take part in the revenue too.' So is the CEDEFOP. After the CEDEFOP's request was preceded to take part in the "harks" of HICPI and after lifting the bishop for the price to private individuals for the exploitation of beaches and sanctuaries, they now come and ask for the revenues from the archaeological sites and museums. And let me conclude with this: there is a document from the Regional Association of Municipalities - where, of course, the JRC does not participate, but it is from your party, from SYRIZA, to the People's Unit - with which the JRC disagrees radically, where, at first, they say that they are expressing their concern about excessive prices, unanimously conclude that this pricing policy could be accepted by visitors, provided that there are no surprises and surprises. So here is how you are finally in agreement with this increase that leads to the commercialisation of culture and the exclusion of the world from the right to culture. Therefore, Minister - in conclusion with this - we are calling for this measure to be withdrawn immediately and for free access to public archaeological sites, to fully meet the needs of the workers, to recruit staff with state funding. But that requires a conflict.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u132	Please, finish, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u133	But you don't conflict. The revolutionary subject has referred it to the Monday Presence, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u134	Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u135	Mr Syntagakis, in fact the wider political, philosophical strategic debate between your party and our own is not about these benches, it is not about the moment. Only a phrase which I think answers and summarizes the time differences between you and us. The phrase is: a specific analysis of this situation. Specific conditions in particular space and time. Specific measures, in order to improve situations, while there are adverse correlations everywhere within and outside Greece. And it's a pity to join the rival side of this connection. And from there on, what do you want for these prices? Whether 20 euros are expensive on the Acropolis, which, with a ticket for three days, can the tourist see not only the rock, but also the surrounding areas, and whether it is a bad policy for there to be free tickets to our very wide categories of fellow citizens and not free entry to everyone, why do we not have the means, unfortunately, against capitalism as today exists in Greece? Do you want to discuss prices in particular? The more general you have raised are the issues of political strategy and philosophy. This is not the House on these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. We continue with the sixth under number 723/29-3-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on measures to stimulate tourism in the islands of East Aegean. This timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Koudoura. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u137	Madam Minister, it is known to you and the government and to all of us the explosion of the refugee - immigration crisis last year. In conjunction with the governmental weaknesses, which you yourself admit, we have to deal with the problem that has been created on the islands of East Aegean. On these islands I would like to believe - and you will tell us today - that the government has planned a special support programme for them, because I know that you have been asked by the regional authorities with their proposals. It is well-known that they are already saying that they have a reduction in tourism, which, in some cases, touches 90%, and because we are already in the tourist season, I would like to believe that the government has drawn up a plan that will support these islands and specific regions. That is why, Minister, I would ask you to inform us of the plan that the government has for these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. Mrs. Kundura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. In 2015, as you know, it was a very difficult year, the sixth consecutive year of the economic crisis, with political negotiations, two elections, referendum, capital controls, economic suffocation and an uncontrolled refugee crisis that has stunned all over Europe. Unfortunately, we have also received an attack, if you like, on the image of Greece from both internal and externally - I will say it - foreign media, which almost did a great deal of harm to Greece's image. But we managed to prevent this with very targeted efforts and thanks to our new tourism policy, which we designed and implemented, we managed in 2015 to have a record of arrivals and revenues. It is an increase of about 6% -7%, almost twice the corresponding growth rate of global tourism. Today, then, when we face far greater challenges and turbulence in Europe - it is not just the refugee, but terrorism - it is a government priority to support our islands that have received the greatest pressure. The program has already announced, a press release has come out, because what we are interested in is Greece, which is currently a very popular, attractive, friendly, global destination, not only to remain but also to enter the first five. We have held a series of successive meetings and meetings in recent months with regions, tourism operators and representatives of the private sector. We are in direct cooperation with the Region of North and South Aegean and we are tuned for the actions that I will tell you, which have already begun within the framework of our operational and communication plan to promote, promote not only Greek tourism abroad, but also Greece's general image and, of course, to support the islands that have received the greatest pressure. So we designed the organization of familiarization trips, the so-called fun trips for journalists, bloggers, travel bloggers, the media abroad, as well as large tour operators. We invited them, they have already come and continue to come to see the normality conditions of our islands, their beauty, our destinations, that they are ready, of course, to welcome all travellers. We are setting up programs for the promotion and promotion of Greece specifically and targeted to increase the market share. We support the islands in particular with funds that have come out specifically for this action through the EOT and with the regions, as I have said, North and South Aegean and in cooperation with the tour operators participate in the EOT reports abroad, without charge, and we have ensured a special support and visibility. We have strengthened the programme of domestic and social tourism to support these islands. I would like to thank through my heart for the immediate and effective response of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Rania Antonopoulou, who, after working together with the Director of the OAED, Maria Karamesini, increased the grant of the tourist units of the islands of East Aegean for the social tourism programme 2015-2016, so that the beneficiaries of the programme and their families who would prefer, who would choose their holidays in the tourist islands of Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Lero, Kos, would be entitled without any interruption for up to ten days. We are promoting an advertising campaign - which was very successful last year - social networking, in cooperation with private operators, - SETE, HATTA, the hotel Chamber, EOT, the regions, the private body, Chambers of Commerce and Islands - to support last-minute detentions. We are being implemented through the offices of the EOT abroad and, of course, with the Secretariat-General, a positive publicity monitoring programme for these islands in our traditional markets, such as Germany, England, France, Scandinavia, the Netherlands and America. The government's political and operational planning has already given the highest priority, as you know, in safeguarding human rights. Temporary hospitality structures provide organized basic food needs, shelter, care for all these afflicted people who take the necessary documents to depart immediately for the destinations they want. These centres have made sure that they are the way they asked us, if you want as a guarantee, our partners and the tour operators abroad, fully controlled, unseen and away from the tourist movement. We support the islands which, if you like, have risen to the level of the circumstances. The islands gave us, like all of Greece, and they give a global message of humanity, culture and solidarity and today they are ready to welcome our visitors. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will close by saying, Mr Colleague, that I really understand your interest. However, your question contains excesses which are not haunted and the dramatic picture that has been cultivated is not the reality. This year we have a very targeted advertising program. We have closed new, more and better agreements with the large tour operators abroad, and they are the ones that are being implemented. We've opened new markets. We have established a very large number of new direct flights, while prolonging the period from our enhanced presence in the international exhibitions of tourism and our parallel contacts abroad over the last few years. The messages we have are highly optimistic about Greek tourism as a whole and we work collectively, coordinatedly and all together. And that is something I would like to stress, because this is the first time that the Ministry of Tourism, EOT and the Hotel Chamber, which is the supervised bodies, is working so closely with the private bodies, regions and generally all the stakeholders, and that is something that it provides. As regards the cruise, 2016 will be greatly increased. Where we have a concern - and I will tell you in my denture - it is for 2017 and 2018. And I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u140	Here, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad this year's a good year for our tourism. Of course you took over in January. I want to believe there's a continuity in this. Because it's a little contradictory not to be able to fix all the rest in three months, but tourism to take him off. In any case, tourism is not something we will disagree with about the share with which each of us had contributed. The question is whether they can be added to the country - because it is largely based on tourism - new tourists and new destinations. But to be honest, I hope it will be much better this year because, as you know very well, the Turkish market has collapsed and there are all the conditions for our tourism to go very well. But I want to tell you about these islands, because that is why I have spoken to you. I don't live there and I can't adopt what the agencies say. But the agencies say other things. I respect you've done all these procedures. So far, however, the operators have said it - they say it in their localities and they have informed you with documents - that the reduction is specific. If it's not 90%, we'd like you to give us your information, because with this evidence you can have proof. I am very pleased about the internal tourism programme that exists. I'm talking to you about specific islands and, as you know, the greatest burden on this one is Chios and Mytilini. So I would like you to tell me in particular what all this programming you are doing with the tour operators - I do not know if you should do so with the local chamber and what participation all of these tourist actors in the region of Chios and Mitilini have in all this effort - and even if the reductions in bookings are not 90% - which is a publication, something that the operators and representatives of the islands have said themselves - I want you to tell us where they are right now. I want you to tell me specifically about these islands. For the rest, for the rest of tourism, if you want to have a conversation at some other time, I would be happy to do so. However, it is contradictory in five months to take off tourism, but in everything else last year you could not make it. As far as the cruise is concerned, I am pleased that from this step you who were in 2010 against the regulation on cruise ships - your party and your party with which you are running today were across the street, when the then PASOK government brought the regulation to open the ports to come the cruise ships - today you call for it, because you are entitled to us for our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u142	Mrs Kundura, if you would like to answer a question that many have. Why - I say this not only for you as Minister but also for the previous ministers - while the other neighbouring states, such as Skopje, continue to have ads on CNN and BBC, Greece is a long way from time to time? Why is that so? For economic reasons?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u143	Are you talking about advertising? I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u144	I ask: why, while we see in CNN, at the BBC, continued advertising from our neighbouring states, Skopje, etc., we do not exist in advertising, do we not make advertising? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Comrade, I'll tell you something. When I took over in January 2015, there was an absolute collapse of tourism compared to 2014 that had become an excellent job - and I stress it - and we really also had a record year. The collapse was first of all because it had created a very negative climate for Greece and all the prevalence had been cancelled. As well as because Russia had a very serious economic crisis and we had a reduction of almost 50%, which was about six hundred thousand tourists. So, when I took over, the 22 million, which had been done an excellent job - and I stress it - in 2014, they did not exist. We've had really big cuts. So that's where we got activated because we saw the problem. We tried to support Greece's image and opened new markets. So, not only did we cover the collapse that existed, i.e. the tragic cuts we had in the first months of 2015, but we managed to open up these new markets and promote Greece and, as I said, with a very successful campaign that we all had together, the private sector with the Ministry of Tourism, to more than double the last-minute reservations. So, then, we managed to bring this historical record. And yes, it was a success of this government, because it was really the first time we all joined together, the public and the private, and we did it. If this had not been done, in 2015 the year would have been lost. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] I stress this because I will never cancel the work done by previous governments, I always say it, and I always say it positive. I say that what we have taken things forward, but unfortunately we have also found problems that we have had to deal with. So an excellent job has been done. I have thanked all private operators, the regions, the SETE, the HATTA, as I said before, above all my partners, the Ministry and the supervised bodies, because if we had not reacted so quickly, 2015 would really be a bad year for tourism. We have therefore managed to bring a record of tourism and we are very pleased about it, very satisfied. The second thing I want to say is that I agree that tourism unites. It would help our islands very much and our tourism and all this national effort, which is being done, to get the positive picture outwards and to miss the images of exaggeration, as well as the statements that create false impressions. There is no 90% reduction, nor are the bodies complaining. I work with the agencies, as a ministry, and as an EOT. Of course, they have their concerns, the figures you mentioned are not correct - I will tell you what the real numbers are - but the hesitancy that emerged in bookings last time for the four islands is due to a very large extent to the reproduction of images of exaggeration by domestic and international media and to the lack of balance in the promotion of positive images of destinations. So I made a move, which was very important. I had a meeting with the WTO, after giving them all the letters, as you quite rightly said, about the operators, who are from the representatives of the cruise, from the representatives of HATTA, SETE, the chambers of commerce, even ABTA, the associations of tour operators abroad. The CEO of the WTO, which has exactly the same opinion with the operators, that the image really does not correspond to the reality and that there has to be a balance, issued a communication on 4 April that says that we need to be a little careful about how we keep the balances in order not to harm Greece's image and tourism. Because, as you know, competition claims the same share that we claim. So, then, a potential visitor, when he sees images on the one hand, perhaps he thinks that all Greece is suffering and that he has a very big problem, while the problem is only in two separate parts. Therefore, this was discussed by the WTO. I made some contacts with the D.A.'s pension managers, and I'm continuing my appointments. I will have a meeting next week with the journalists in order to maintain some balance and to show the beauty of our country, because in April - May all packages are closed. As far as these islands are concerned, I will tell you that with all these actions we have managed to limit the reduction to about 15% by 20%. The evidence you mentioned is nowhere, i.e. it's not evidence, which is recorded somewhere. This is why I will tell you that 16.9% of passengers moved in the quarter of 2016 to all the airports in the country compared to the corresponding quarter of last year. Anyway, we've come to have a 10.8% increase in domestic flights...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u146	Minister, I'm telling you about the islands, not everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u147	Listen to me. I'll tell you. ...and increase of 4.7% in foreign flights. Only in March, passenger traffic increased almost 20%. The record of all times has been recorded in the passenger traffic of Athens Airport this March. International traffic has for the first time exceeded two million. These markets, also because of the NGOs that are there, are in a very good financial situation. But it is their tourist regions that we are trying to support. And we see the charters have kept them, and we've also put them in. In Samos, for example, we had a big fight to keep the direct flights and we did it. In Kos, we've had a big fight for no such reduction. With the mayor of Lesvos, we are in direct contact and with the twinnings he has done and with the support we have given him, the problem has been greatly reduced. We also work with the mayor of Chios and do all we can and there is a lot of support there. With social tourism there will be more than two thousand beneficiaries who - those who choose - will support. And the predictions of all actors are that we will overcome all Greek arrivals and revenues in 2016. From there on, how much we've reduced and how well those destinations are going to go, you need to know that we're not in a position to say it now. A question was asked by the President of Parliament about the fact that we do not exist anywhere and it is true. Money and resources are very few. I asked the National Council for Communication Policy, which is under the presidency of the Prime Minister, for its strategic planning to have an additional budget in order to broadly stimulate Greece's image and to be able to find ourselves in these global instruments that we are non-existent. In this way we will also be able to support our islands, which have been under pressure and which the potential visitor, especially far from Europe, cannot understand that some islands have received the pressure rather than the Aegean. So all this is projection and promotion, which we are doing strategically and orderlylylylyly. We hope to take a line further, because this money is very little and does not allow us to have an international presence. However, as far as these islands are concerned, I can tell you that we are on an excellent development and demand. I believe that at the end of May we will know where to stabilise the number of arrivals and, of course, that also requires an increase in revenue. However, I would like to reassure you, and I would like to say that I have called on all the Heads of State and Government of all the political parties. Unfortunately, you couldn't come that day. I've arranged because I was in the exhibitions and I couldn't make a new appointment the next week to call you back to tell you all the actions. Also, I want your help and your support, because, as you quite rightly say, tourism unites. It's not a political controversy. It's a national case. It is 20% of GDP and one and a half million direct and indirect jobs. I really want to thank you, because the opposition has shown an excellent person and I think that through dialogue we can also support tourism, but also have cooperation, to achieve a new record in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. Clearly what you have answered, I would like to say that the question from the President, who answered it, was raised by Mr Cremastino.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u149	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u150	I say this to be specific because we are President, Vice-Presidents and so on. That is all I wanted to say. Before going to the next topical question, I would like to inform the House that the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economy and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign, Culture and Sport, Economic, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, today, 14-4-2016, draft law: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Maritime Cooperation". Furthermore, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religion, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Culture and Sport, Economics, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Statement, Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Economic and Energy and the State Secretarys of Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, and Energy, and the State Secretarys of Economy, Education, Research and Religion, Research and Religion, Refugees and Refugees in today's Activity and Reliefstorations between the European Union, Relief and Relief and Reformstorations, Reformstoration and Reformstoration and Reforms of the Reformstoration and Relief and Refugees of the Reformst of the Religions of the European Union: 14-Act and Reforms. on Article 96 of the Agreement’. Both draft laws are referred to the competent Standing Committees. We move to the eleventh under number 594/29-2-2016 an up-to-date question from the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Health on the draft merger - abolishing units of primary health care. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before anything else, which has to do with my timely question, on the occasion of the new, truly unheard and provocative intrusions and threats from the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, who yesterday at a party event in SYRIZA in Maroussi, said that he should have risen up and put three meters under the land the journalist, whom Mr. Paulakis genuinely attacked in an interview in December 2015, I call on you, Minister, to unequivocally deplore the threats of Mr. Polakis, who are not just against the freedom of press, which - noteworthyly - has made it a cartel, but, as you can see, they are a direct threat to life and, of course, an extremely illegal energy. I am sure the NCA will deal with the matter within the day. I therefore call on you, Minister, to withdraw and condemn this statement, of course, by rescuing the honour of your Government. Why do you have to understand that you have received the rule of a democratic country, Minister, which you are inclined to become a totalitarian Turkey? I'll come to the topical question now. The health sector in the country, Minister, is in a full functional blackout - I am using a phrase that you yourself used - and at the same time reports speak of a ready list from your Ministry for ready-to-eat mergers of health centres throughout the country. Dozens of structures, according to these publications, are at risk with a padlock. If that is the case, Minister, I would like you to tell me, on the one hand, the purpose and benefit of such a decision, on the other hand, the criteria on which these mergers are planned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Every day that this hovers, as you can see, Mr Minister, there is enormous concern not only about staff - medical, paramedical, administrative - of these structures, but above all about the inhabitants of the regions concerned and, above all, about the inhabitants of the barren, border regions, who most of all rush to health centres, as you can see, and because of their age - because they cannot lead - and because of the economic tolerance they face. Let me tell you this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Arabatzis, move on to the questions. You had two minutes. With the tolerance of the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u153	Yeah, it's just a major issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u154	You have spent half your time from the protology for an irrelevant subject from the timely question. Let's move on to the questions. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u155	I imagine that on a major issue, Minister, the House must reflect the living reality. This timely question is being discussed at a time when these statements are being made. And I think I have an obligation - we are in the temple of democracy - to condemn and call upon the present Minister to withdraw these reactions and statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u156	I invited you to speed up your prototype because you exceeded time. That's how I have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u158	From that point on, I think I made myself clear. Go ahead and ask questions. You have a period of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u159	I shall conclude, Mr President, despite the fact that all other colleagues have exceeded their time. And if you don't even abolish them, you'll agree, I imagine, with me, the eighty of the two two health care centres are actually deaf at the moment, Minister. Apart from tragic subsidization, they face many problems. Many of them did not have heating oil or ink to prescribe the medicines, as happened at the Serres State Health Center, which had to be the subject of the news, to obtain ink. I would therefore like you to commit to whether there is such a merger or dismantling plan and, if there is such a plan, what will happen with the health centres in the area from which I come from, the Serres Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u160	Good. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u161	Dear colleague, I really like your introduction. The anti-democratic diversion and simulation of Greek democracy with authoritarian regimes, I think, are insulting citizens' intelligence and do not need a response. Nor do I respond to complaints which are not documented and which are not proved. Now for the substance of the topical question, my dear colleague, two years ago, in February of '14, there was an alleged reform intervention in primary care, Mr. 4238. He was then recommended by the party you participated in. All those present in Jerusalem, all people in the health system, especially in primary care, know that this has led to the complete deorganisation of public structures and even this operation, which was at least - in large urban centres - from the old structures of IKA - EEA. It is true that in this landscape we have not succeeded, in the time when we have responsibility for the governance of the country and the ministry concerned, to achieve a significant improvement and upgrading of services. However, a plan for dismantling, shrinking, removing structures does not exist. And the very simple reason that proves this is that especially in the 2016 budget is a significant financial support and primary care. The total budget from EUR 116 million is EUR 150 million. The budget for medicines from 6.5m euros, which was in 2015, has gone to 35m euros. The budget for the recruitment of ancillary personnel from EUR 14 million has gone to EUR 20 million and the reagent budget from EUR 13.6 million has gone to EUR 25 million. It is therefore a very significant investment in upgrading the primary health care system. At the same time, we have made very important contributions. First of all, we've done the cross-cutting all over the country. In this particular area, in the county in which you are elected, we have defined nine primary health care areas, which include all health centres. This is a ministerial decision of the authorities of 2016. Obviously, there is no question of shrinking, merging or abolishing certain services. The effort we are going to make in the very near future, and with the funding that I have told you and, above all, with the support of subsidiary doctors, who have already begun to go ahead, will be to have an improved functioning of the structures. We have also done for the first time an EEA contract with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, precisely to cover services, laboratory examinations, visits by its members to public primary care structures - this is for the first time - and this is how we will also have additional funding for the rural-type health centres and the structures of the PES in urban centres and by the EOPY, in addition to increased state funding. We have led the health regions to expand, where possible, operating hours beyond the morning hours, i.e. there will be an early evening hours, so that citizens will be able to serve. We have also proceeded with a design in the first and second RES, in particular, where we have too many structures, to have a pooling of laboratory tests, with the logic in regional workshops that there is a basic log of examinations and the rest of the experts who are specialised in a reference laboratory, so that there is a scale economy, in reagents and in human resources, which can be made more rationally. We have also made a serious intervention to save resources from transporting structures from rentals to public buildings. We have saved over 3 million euros over a year of these moves, especially in the field of primary care. Finally, in the recent bill that we passed on to Law No.4368/2016, there was an arrangement for the ancestor’s allowance, a allowance that had been abolished for doctors after the single wage. We have predicted 1.5 million euros a year, which we will allocate to some three hundred arid agricultural doctorates of island, mountainous and inappropriate areas, just to give an additional incentive to attract and cover primary care needs in the region. I think that this is a political plan to strengthen the public health system, with emphasis on primary care, and under no circumstances is the continuation of a policy of conscious degrading, abandoning and depreciating the ESS, which has existed in all previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u163	I am pleased, Minister, that you said that there is no such plan for the merger or abolition of health centres across the country. Of course, I do not know whether we should give any basis and believe these statements, because I will remind you that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in the first month of the Prime Minister's commitment, said that four and a half thousand recruits were to be recruited, which he had prepared - as you know - by the New Democracy of medical and nursing staff, and that none of them were. Minister, you lied to me that my statements are harming citizens' intelligence. I believe, however, that you are harming our intelligence when you say in your answer that there is no proof of what I said about your Deputy, Mr Polakis. I don't know, Minister, if you didn't have time to see the press, or if you saw it, but after the video that's been in all the media since the morning, Mr. Polakis saying and he says that he should have put the journalists down three meters below the earth, the least I would expect you to say, Minister, is that you don't have any knowledge of this particular statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u164	Apparently I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u165	Well, Minister, we have an opinion on Mr. Polakis and I am so sorry. Obviously, colleagues were unaware of these statements and discussed with them today in parliamentary control. We have an opinion on Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u166	Mrs. Arabatzis, I repeat during your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, you will allow me to use my dentistry as I judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u168	No, I'm so sorry. You're judging? You mean what you want? Excuse me very much, but we have a specific procedure. You're not new. You know that. Put yourself on the topical question and, if you like, on health issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u169	I believe, Mr President, that my timely question, which - not least - has been postponed three times...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u170	I urge you in this direction. If you don't want it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u171	Thank you for the exhortations. I won't be using all year round.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u172	Well, we're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u173	I therefore call on the Minister, even now, to condemn these statements. Idema, Minister, it's like you're adopting them. That's what I have to say. Nothing else. For me, this is now of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u174	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of some statements, which, in fact, I do not know or have had time to be informed, which is following a very well-known controversy that has occurred - from an incident in which, in fact, there has been an insulting and discrediting intervention from a portion of journalists and from the Secretary-General and from the whole of the political leadership - if you think that from this debate and the paraphilis you can cancel or deceive a project carried out in this ministry with a very great effort - and, of course, with the contribution and wholehearted support of the Deputy Mr Polakis - a project that is gradually beginning to produce positive effects on the daily lives of citizens - and I am referring to the recent regulation on the health of uninsured people, a deficit in the Greek state for at least four, five years - if you think you can really despised a gradual health-covering plan for the health-related health-related health-related health-related health-related health-related system... You said four and a half thousand recruits. I have to say that out of the three and a half thousand recruitments, their first part - which is the thousand - is already being implemented. And the final results of the AAP have come out and these days they are working in hospitals. The five hundred CEDEFOP recruitments are also being undertaken for intensive treatment units. Immediately afterwards we have announced another five hundred and eighty-five ASAP posts and followed by another two and a half thousand permanent staff, which will be launched immediately after Easter and within the 2016 budget, there is provision for them to be implemented. Aggregating is over four and a half thousand staff recruits launched for this year. From August 2015 until some time ago we have appointed cumulatively over eight hundred supplementary doctors in the health system and have frozen two hundred permanent doctors from old 2009, 2010 and 2011, who have moved forward and been placed. It is over a thousand doctors at this time who have strengthened public structures. We therefore think that it is an injection and human resources in the system and with the increased funding that has been available this year. From EUR 1,388 billion, which was the 2015 budget for the operational costs of hospitals, this year is EUR 1,634 billion. There is a clear progress, a serious improvement. This political leadership is doing everything it can, really. Because we are people of public care, because we have fought for too many years, to have the priority that this sector needs in the country's overall policy, we will really do everything we can to support public structures, to support the human potential, which with friendly efforts keeps the system up, to strengthen with resources and equipment, where there are huge gaps, of course, and to enable the citizen of this country to feel more security in this area and to know that at the time of the need it will not be immune to a threatening disease and the need for decent care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the thirteenth, with number 677/18-3-2016, a timely question for the second question of the Athens MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "delay of the inauguration of the Greek fighters of 1940 in Albania". The State Secretary, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, will answer. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after too many months of absence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs you answer a timely question of the Golden Dawn. Since the first government took place, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks have asked dozens of questions. They hadn't answered. But, even so, it's not too late, it's never been. Since ancient times the Greeks have viewed the unburial burial of their dead. As the war clashes stopped, in order for the Greeks to bury their dead. And not only when there were conflicts between them, but also with other peoples. Perhaps the biggest surveillance of the 20th century and of the largest in Greek history is the epic of Pindos, in the winter of the '40s-41, which wrote great pages of glory, which "little" Greece defeated the Italians and then dealt with the invasion of the Germans with great success. In the battlefields, thousands of Greek officers and soldiers died. After World War II ended, unfortunately Greece was found in a war war war war war war war vortex, civil strife, gang war, everyone says so. At the same time the nine thousand seven hundred ninety - six dead remained dead. The heroic Northcontinents collected their bones, kept them all these difficult years of the Stalinist regime of Hoxha, this anti-Brandial regime, made clippings and did what they wanted, needed and defined the history of the Greeks. In 1991 the regime of Hodja and Ramiz Alia collapsed. Albania was supposed to be a democratic country. However, it has been twenty years and none of the substance has become energy, except for the military cemetery in the Buliars, where there are few of the dead enclaves. The rest - close to ten thousand - remain unholy. The excuses of the Albanians are numerous and continuous. And despite the persistent efforts of some here, not of the official state, but of some individuals and individuals, we recently heard the outrageous, "we can't give you permission to create military cemeteries, because it's not proving that these thousands of thugs, these bones are soldiers, because they don't have the metallic military identity". We believe that our "neighbours" are mocking and mocking us as a nation - within introductory - Albanians and that this issue should be the alpha and the omega of any discussion between the Greek state and the state of Albania on any matter. It should be the first on the agenda for reasons of moral order, honor and memory of these heroes. We would like you to tell us what you at last intend to do. We have already tabled a timely question, there have also been questions, there have been discussions, there have been discussions within the Greek Parliament by these bodies that are trying to deal with this issue. But the result is zero! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u178	Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u179	Mr Ephremidis, my answer to the point you are referring to is this: I want to assure you that we have been showing you as a Foreign Ministry for many years in vain and strong interest, in order to at last give the due honour to the Greeks who fell into the war operations in Albania during the 1940-1941 Greek-1941 war. Despite our efforts, which were made in collaboration with the Ministry of National Defence, for the immediate convening in Athens of the Second Joint Committee in the context of the 9-2-2009 Hellenic-Albanian Agreement, the Albanian side is systematically blocked. As a political leadership of the country at all levels, we are making our bilateral contacts with the Albanian side with due regard both for the need to speed up the implementation of this agreement and for the high moral and humanitarian importance that we as a country attach to this issue. For our part, we want to reiterate that this is a major issue of national and moral interest. Albania has recently acquired the status of a candidate for membership of the European Union with Greece's firm support. Therefore, its consistency in respect of its commitments - and in particular contractual - is a stable and secure net in this European path. For the rest and for some other remarks, I will be placed in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all it was, it is and will remain the North continent. It is the unsolved part of Epirus, because Epirus was one and one, and unfortunately, despite the fact that in the battlefield we won it three times in the 20th century, in the fields of diplomatic actions, we lost it three times. And there is even now a special status of autonomy, which Albanians are constantly trampled down with various actions, especially in the heroic region of Himaras, where they do what they want to do, they undo what they want, they take homes, they have built land registers of another type, they administratively mix the villages of the Northern Epirus with areas of Albanians, so that the Greek element cannot elect representatives and with a number of other actions. You said that the Greek state, your ministry and the co-legislative ministries show a strong interest. The strong interest in itself does not say anything at all, if in practice there are no tangible facts, which show that we are actually developing in the matter. We have too many weapons as Greece. One thing you also mentioned at the end, that Albania as a candidate country for membership of the European Union has the support of Greece. He should not have any support for Greece, because this is the first issue for which we have been constantly written to the older ones of their shoes. However, there is another set of issues which should also be resolved before we give them our support: The issue of the Champids, who constantly demand day after day their claims are upgraded by the improperness or something else of the Greek state. The fact that even the agreement with Albania on the establishment of an EEZ took it back with the encouragement of the Turks, who know very well that Albania is literally a liar of Turkey, multiplely and diversely. The fact that, as we said, the Greeks of Northern Epirus are constantly under attack at all levels and that the Greek state is not doing anything about it. The appropriate points you have said do not say anything. The most competent person in this effort is a former politician. It has also written a book with the figures of seven thousand nine hundred seventy-seven-six - if I am not mistaken, I do not remember the exact number - unspeakable by Mr. Surlas, in his honor. He said a few months ago that the country's political leadership in recent years has not done anything at all and has not excluded anyone or someone else. We are not doing anything at all as a country on this most serious moral issue. Let us inform you that the serious countries, the serious states, have it first on their agenda. If you go and take a walk to the allied cemeteries located on Greek territory, you will be tearing from how beautiful and neat they are, from the awe that surrounds these young people who fell for their homeland. When the Soviet Union collapsed, Germany's respective agency was able and found close to the four million bones of German soldiers. If you go to all the lengths and backs of the earth, the military cemeteries are sacred spaces and they respect them and they all honor them. Only us in Greece, a country with a millennium history, tradition, do nothing about it. Greece's actions should start and end with this issue, with regard to whatever relationship we have with Albania. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u183	I think that the prototype gives me the answers when I say so, so that the due honour can finally be paid. I would also like to mention, as you have said, that Albania must respect the commitments, in particular contractual terms, and they are the ones that represent a stable indicator in the European path. Let me say actions that we have taken in relation to the Greek minority in relation to the names in the translation service, solutions which we have given and to which we have the authentic results and positive recognitions that we have had from our own. Let me tell you that the Joint Committee provided for by the Hellenic-Albaic Agreement should indeed be established. We shall also insist on this in the next period, Mr Papoutsis. I would like to point out that national resistance has been recognised by the Greek Parliament. I know that these expressions do not have a place in a Greek Parliament and in a Greek nation, which unanimously recognised the national resistance and the aftermath of the resistance not only in the Greek-Albanian war, but also against the conquerors in the Occupational period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u184	Where are you referring?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u185	In the expression 'global war'. I don't want an answer, I just made a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u186	Depending on how everyone sees it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u187	We enter the 15th under number 615/3-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs concerning the possible establishment of offices of a Turkish organisation in Greece. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis. Mr Saridis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u188	Minister, the topical question was tabled on 3 March. Fortunately, it still remains timely, but, you know. On Tuesday, March 1, 2016, the Turkish newspaper "ZAMAN" in an article publishes that Turkish Deputy Prime Minister in the House of Neighbourhood two days ago stated that Turkey has discussed with Greek officials the possible establishment of TICA offices, i.e. the Turkish state agency, who is responsible for the cooperation and coordination of that country. Turkish Deputy Prime Minister, whose office the specific organisation is in, further stated that the establishment of the TICA offices in Greece requires the transnational agreement between Greece and Turkey. TIKA's official website, Tika.gov.tr, in its unity for the history and purposes of this organization, states: "By establishing the concept of active policy in our foreign policy, TIKA has become an executive Ombudsman of Turkish foreign policy, particularly in the countries with which we share common values, as well as in many other regions and countries." After that, ask, Minister: Is the reports of talks about the establishment of TICA offices in Greece and, if so, on what level political or even service have they been carried out? Do you think it's in Greece's interest to set up TIKA offices in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Your Honor, for the question, because it really had to be clear. The answer will be short and I think it will satisfy you. I don't think she might need a denial on my side. Mr TIKA, as you have said, is indeed a tool to serve the foreign policy of Turkey. It is not true reports of talks about the establishment of a TIKA office in Greece, at political or service level. We also note that Tika is basically active, as you know, in developing countries, where it distributes international development aid. As to the other part of your question, in the light of the above and below, we do not consider that there is an object for the development of TIKA's business in our country and therefore there is no point in operating his office in Greece. Thank you for the question, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u192	I am very pleased with the Secretary-General's reply, because it actually expresses the official position of the Greek Government. I would, however, like to remain in an answer you have given to a respectable colleague, Mr Georgiadis, in a question that he had asked, not timely, one week after our question. There, just in the same question, you say: "It is a fact that in the past there have been unofficial efforts from the Turkish side to establish a TIKA office in our country which has not been successful, as we have repeatedly refused, considering that there is no need to operate a TIKA office in Greece. This, in view of the fact that Tika is basically active in developing countries, where it distributes international and humanitarian aid. It is therefore not true that references to talks at political or service level have not been made and there has been no official transnational contact at all." There are questions, Mr Secretary, which are being asked to answer and there are questions that are being asked to prevent situations. The question, I will be honest, has been made to prevent this precisely from being changed from any informal talks in formal agreements. I am particularly pleased that, according to us, any possibility of accepting the Turkish request for the establishment of TIKA's Turkish offices in Greece would, in essence, be a fatal mistake in the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, since Turkey could achieve the strengthening of its influence on the Muslim element of Thrace, as well as on the rest of the Muslims who currently exist in Greece. Let us note that with the refugee flows we will have a legal and permanent establishment of a Muslim element in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Undersecretary, will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u194	I think the purpose of your question has been achieved, Mr Saridis. The answer is clear that we do not consider there to be any object of developing TIKA's activity in our country and therefore there is no point in operating his office in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We will discuss the seventeenth under number 614/3-2016 a topical question for a second question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 'creating the climate of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace'. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. Mr Minister, first of all this question has been tabled for too long. Luckily you came to answer at least today. On January 29, 2016, a provocative event supported by the party DEB, which speaks separatistly about Thrace, and the Turkish consulate, was organized in the region of Thrace. This event had to do with the incidents that had taken place on January 29, 1988, when the Marios Ice, and quite rightly, had prohibited the word "Turkish", "Turk" or "Turk" in some unions that wanted to establish certain Muslims in the region of Thrace. In 1988 there were terrible incidents. The irony is that twenty-eight years later those who came to make this event were entitled "Turkish Youth Komotini". The Greek state allowed them and made this event. To see in twenty-eight years how much Greek foreign policy has retreated into everything. And not only are we talking about the Aegean, but we are talking about Thrace and the whole territory of Greece. So the treasonous attitude followed by the Greek state over the last few years has led to this situation, namely, coming under the provocative title "Turkish Youth Komotini", to celebrate the then ban that had been made, and after twenty-eight years they have actually won. At this event, I repeat, they were mayors of some areas, from some pomakohoria, people who are not just Muslims, but who say Turks. These people have declared their place open to separate Western Thrace, our Thrace. The Turkish consulate, of course, we all know, plays a terrible role and does not do so anymore or hide anything. The Turkish Consulate is openly implementing this policy. The Turkish Consulate has come out in the area of Thrace, terrorizes the Greeks Pomacus, terrorizes those who say, by Muslims, that they have Greek conscience and are Greeks, because there are several of them and all Greek Pomacs so are, regardless of whether the Greek state itself wants to extort them. The question we ask the Ministry and you personally now is what you are thinking about and what measures are you taking to stop? Because the situation has reached the unprecedented, the Turks there are a state in the state, doing what they want, they actually come their fakes, they come their ministers and their MPs from Turkey, they gather theirs, they make their own flags of independently of Western Thrace and the Greek state sit and watch them. And not only are we content with them, but there are Greek Members here who have been elected as Greek MPs - and I refer to members of the SYRIZA Parliament, and in this parliamentary period - who state clearly and proudly, in various Turkish newspapers, that they are Turks, they feel Turks and they will fight for the rights of the Turkish minority that does not exist in our Thrace. What are your views and your answers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u198	Your Honor, I will give you the official position of the government. You see, I am very careful in my words, which are of great importance to me. As regards the Muslim minority in Thrace, the relevant international treaties, and in particular the Treaty of Lausanne, are applicable, according to which the minority is collectively identified on the basis of its religious character, namely Muslim religion. Reports of individual minority members for a different definition of minority as a whole do not remove international conditions or express the desire of minority as a whole. Greek Muslims in Thrace want peaceful coexistence and coexistence with Greek Christians. Any extremist elements of one or the other are marginalized by society as a whole and are in fact expelled from social dialogue by both minority and majority. What I consider to be missing, perhaps, from your question, is that the response of the minority itself has been decreasing steadily, because the Greek state since 1989, with what it has done, has followed up and consistently followed a policy of equality and equality. In my dentistry, I can say more evidence. Since, of course, you have also referred to the party, Mr Lager, I would like to say that the legitimate exercise of the right of assembly and association, as well as of the right of the 'government', is a constitutional right for Greek citizens, since it does not conflict with Greek legislation and international rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u200	Minister, I'm sorry, but you're confused. You spoke about the right of Greek citizens to be assembled when they do not contravene Greek legislation. But there's a clear contrast here. Here these people say Turks, not Muslims. You yourself said just now that there is the International Treaty of Lausanne. I wish it were. But you don't apply it. What does the Treaty of Lausanne say so that people know it and we can hear it again? He says there's a Muslim minority in Thrace. Here, these people come out and frustrate that they are Turks and you tell me that this is not contrary to Greek legislation? What are you talking about? Here comes the Prime Minister of Turkey, are various ministers talking about independent Western Thrace, your MPs are photographed with flags of independent Western Thrace, and you tell us that this is not contrary to Greek legislation? These are incomprehensible things. And because you tell us these things, go up and ask the Pomacians who say - and they are - about the violent extremism that exist. Ask them. Because your government has accepted the misfortune of the previous governments, forcing Pomakopoulos to learn Turkish. Where and where? Pomakopoulas and Pomakopis had to learn their native language, which is the pomacy and the Greek language, which is the official language of the Greek state. Where and how will the Pomakoupoli learn Turkish? Untie us this question. We must also stress the circumstances of violence there. Unless you don't know them. And it's very likely that you don't know them, because I don't think you've been to the pamachoria and you've seen what's going on. To stress, too, what the Pomac are facing there and what the conditions of the Turkish consulate are. The Turkish consulate is a gangrene and must either respect the conditions that exist and the Greek legislation and the Constitution or close, lock up and go home. But it is shameful for you to tell us that it is not against Greek legislation. These, indeed, people listen to them and go crazy. What was that you told us? I would also like to say, since it does not oppose Greek legislation, a caravan of solidarity, which Turkey does every three and a little, through the Turkish consulate and bring trucks, trucks of food and other materials, which only give them to Muslims. Isn't that racist, Minister? The Golden Dawn for the piles he gave for Greek went to jail. You blamed us and made us monsters. That Turks only give Muslim food, isn't that racist? Isn't that contrary to the laws of the state? We also need to make it clear that they don't give all Muslims. The Muslims who - I repeat - declare proud Greeks have put them in isolation. Let's just ask up there, so you can find out these things. Once again, let us tell you that, and now, in your government, there have been some documents that have been moved to minority schools. You sent through the Ministry of Education a document forcing them - and you did quite rightly - teachers of these schools and managers to communicate and exchange documents in the Greek language, which is our official language. Do you know what the answer was, because, rather, we're going through very easily? The answer is: "It forgets the Greek state that minority schools are autonomous. There is an obvious attempt to forget this." It's autonomous, they say. Also, they say: "Our mother tongue is Turkish and will continue to be, as it was until now, speaking in our schools." And that's something that no one can change. That's where they're writing us. They don't count on us at all and do whatever they want. And you tell me that this is not contrary to Greek law and the Constitution of the Greek state? But here's the point, here's the point. So if you were to apply the Treaty of Lausanne, we would be with you. But the Treaty of Lausanne does not apply. They say it's a Turkish minority. You leave them. They reclaim every day and win things. At this point, we can also mention a characteristic case of a Christian family, which lives in a pomakohori - the elements we have and, whenever you want, we can give them to you - and which is under terrible pressure. The Turkish consulate went to buy their residence with a glossy amount. People did not want to give it, because they wanted these Christians to stay in this village, and since then five or six attacks have been taken at home. Specifically these people can be seen whenever you want and see what they're facing up there. I repeat, however, that the problem is also with the Pomacians, whom the Greek state extorts them. He's forcing them to go to Turkey's arms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u201	Finish, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u202	So because all the Greek parties so far were betrayal - I say this and whoever wants to be misunderstood - the Golden Dawn will be on the side of the Greek Pomacians and on 7 May it will do something that no party has done so far. An event will be organized in the pomachori Glaki and the Golden Dawn and its MPs will be there to discuss with the Pomakos and embrace them in a great hug of Greece, spreading the blue-white over. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] This is Golden Dawn, these are the Greek Pomacians and this is the Turkish consulate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u203	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u204	Your Honor, you have referred to matters which are not my responsibility to answer. You referred to issues of education, for which the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is responsible. Therefore, I will not be tempted to answer, regardless of whether I have an opinion. It's someone else's responsibility. That is where they will answer these questions. I cannot answer these issues from the official position, to which I am right now. Look, Mr Papoutsis, the policy that raises walls between Christians and Muslims can only be national policy. Our country is responding and ensuring its national interests - I will answer you for what you have asked - in the only way that we can do in a modern democratic society, in a European country, indeed, with democracy and the implementation of the law. In this respect, to which you criticised, I mentioned in my speech: I just said what our Constitution says, namely that the legitimate exercise of the right to 'conspiracy', 'cooperative', 'government', is a constitutional right, since it does not contravene Greek legislation and international rules. I didn't say anything more. I believe that everyone wants peaceful coexistence and, of course, in Thrace, policies need to be developed for the development of this region. It is a fragile point, a sensitive one, and all governments over time should be sensitive - and I think our own plans and moves - so that Thrace develops and there should be no walls and such policies, which we certainly do not welcome. As for the other issues, I think they're issues of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the last timely question, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, today on 14-4-2016, a penal case against end-of-end ministers in the years 2001-2006. We continue with the eighteenth under the number 583/26-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilia Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on "the assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, will answer. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question was tabled for the first time in early 2015. It had been tabled several other twelve times, I think, as well as similar questions, until it was finally answered by you. The question's title is: 'The assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje'. Unfortunately, since the beginning of 2015, when this question was tabled, it has so far been unbelievable. In any case, the party in which you are, and SYRIZA, has it as an official position, the self-determination of the Skopje and the right to be called as they wish. Of course, after you became a government, things changed, at least seemingly, because your members, your ministers, one after another continuously, either escape them or become artificially or formally, state Skopje as "Macedonia". The excuses of some of your MPs, like Mr Balaura, are that, since we've lost the game, because now we're all "Macedonia" telling them, if we tell them, it's not a big deal. Well, it runs too much! The last official decision was made by the Heads of State or Government in 1993, where it was decided that the term 'Macedonia' should not exist in the name of the neighbouring country, nor as a derivative, or as a geographical indication or as anything else. We see from previous governments, especially from 2010 onwards, as well as your own government, having accepted a priori that there should be a complex name called "Macedonia". That is why no one has authorized you, no matter how much you want to do - not you personally - or if anyone else wishes to do so. Only the Greek people can decide this by referendum and no one else can. From there on, the excuses that we've lost the game are not true. We welcome the initiative of Greek expatriates from America, who have launched actions. A federation campaign calls on the United States to withdraw the recognition of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - which was also a mistake - under the terms 'Macedonia'. If he wants the Greek state, he can do a lot. Even all Earth recognizes Skopje as "Macedonia", because the Skopje live and breathe from Greece, it is up to us to make them forget all this. We would like an answer to dentistry, and I would also like to tell you some more about Greece's actions towards the indirect recognition of Skopje as "Macedonia", from the fact that the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs allows all of these elements - but also other ministries to accept documents from Skopje as "Macedonia", from the fact that the Skopje have changed even the registration plates of their cars and is now permanently on the "Skopje" and the ridiculous excuse we have at customs - we put them a sticker that is not even stuck - is that Greece is recognised as Skopje. He's laughing and the universe is laughing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, foreign policy - and I say this to the national Parliament too - is a national matter and requires political consensus. Of course, it does not require demonstrations which are often aimed only at voting. The name issue is an outstanding international problem, and in accordance with the relevant decisions of the United Nations Security Council - and I am referring to 817 and 845-, Greece respects and supports the talks under the auspices of the United Nations. The name issue is a problem, as I said before, with a regional and international dimension and certainly cannot be solved by promoting corrosion and by means of a vehicle forgery of history and the familiarization of Greece's national, historical and cultural heritage. We have been participating since the beginning of the 1990s, on the basis of previous decisions and the Interim Agreement on 13-9-1995, in the negotiation process under the UN in a realistic and constructive spirit. In this spirit and in view of the national interest and the preconditions which we have set ourselves, we are also dealing with the debates and proposals. Historically, the term "Macedonia" is a Greek word. It refers to the kingdom and the culture of the ancient Macedonians, belonging to the Greek nation, which are an undeniable part of the Greek historical and cultural heritage. Greece has reacted strongly throughout this period to the theft of historical and cultural heritage and at this point let me submit something, which, as Greek Government, we are doing and I believe all the Greek governments are doing so: we are strengthening our position with the help of the academic community, bringing objective and scientific data to light and we are proving who, in practice, defends the interests of our country. And I am referring to the shocking new archaeological findings, which were put on the strictest basis by science, at three international scientific conferences organized by the Centre for Greek Language. At this point I am presenting to the Greek Parliament the minutes of these conferences, in which - for the international scientific community - the claim about the Macedonian as an Indian language, but allegedly independent from the Greek community, is hereby rejected. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the Minutes the above minutes, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like two minutes, because this is a very important matter. How is that possible? With a stunningly recent archaeological find, a vase repository dated with sturdy criteria between 730 BC. and 690 BC, discovered in 2007 in Methoni, Pieria. It contained twenty-five inscriptions in symptom vessels in Greek language, that is, two hundred years before the appearance of the Athenian control in the lands of Macedonia. The Macedonian language of communication was so early in Greek. So we support the academic community. I shall return to my dentistry as well, because I have no more time. This is my first placement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Panayotarus has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what you have said about the archaeological findings for the scientific workshops is very nice. We know all this and every sound and reasonable man on Earth, not only in Greece, knows the truth. However, the question is that foreign policy is not just about them. It's done in other ways. First of all, I would like to say about political consensus. You should also ask the Members of your party who accept the term "Macedonia" for Skopje or accept the term "Skopje" or accept something else, because day after day, even now, they are coming out and trying to justify unjustified. As far as the vote is concerned - you are obviously referring to us -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u212	I am referring to the vote and I will tell you the position of the Golden Dawn. How interested we are if we will be in the Greek Parliament with 7% or with 17% or with 27% or 0.7%. When Golden Dawn was first in the dark for decades, defending Greek interests even with blood, with wounded chrysayites - with Greeks blocking borders, when five thousand gypsies from Canada, Australia, America and elsewhere had come to make their festivals in Meliti, and we found ourselves, a handful of people, and we prevented this, when we stopped their first conference, which went to make the "Uranian Arc" in Edessa, when hundreds of Greek policemen prevented the chrysaurs at the "CAPSIS" Hotel in Thessaloniki not to become this second betrayal conference, when all this was not a matter of vote, it was a matter of confidence. And the Golden Dawn is convinced that, whatever happens, Macedonia is one and it is Greece. For the role of Turkey, where for this country Skopje is actually their pussy - you know it very well in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you should see all that, because there is the background - you said that it respects the talks. They don't respect the conversations. Minister, you're talking about the forgery of history. That's right, you said it. At the same time, however, Greece provided funds through the European Union and subscribed to the construction, for example, of the motorway that passes through all Skopje, which is about eighty kilometers and every three hundred meters, there is a huge sign that says, "Automotor Macedonia", "Airport Alexandar Veliki - Great Alexander", the town of Skopje is filled with caricatures, which are supposed to be theirs or anything else. We are co-financed by European Union programmes, and Greece is signing! That is not the case with foreign policy. The weapon that we have through the European Union, the right to veto in too many decisions, is not used because, unfortunately, in recent years we have not been as independent as we would like us to be and are under pressure from others. Our best weapon is economic strangulation and how much we care about some Greeks who are active there, since they recognize Skopje as "Macedonia". I told you before that too many actions have taken over the years against Greece. We also see the foreign media that Skopje mentions as "Macedonia" and especially lately. It's probably in the context of a deal, because even some large news agencies and television stations, who didn't mention Skopje as "Macedonia", now mention them. Obviously, they are the exchanges for the Skopje to do what the Greeks should do, that is to close the borders and not have them openly and make fun of us in Idomeni. We also see many multinationals operating in our own country and Skopje is referred to as "Macedonia". And there were interventions by goldenmen, as citizens, not as parliamentarians. And we've asked topical questions before, and we've brought the evidence. There are, they're tabled to the House. That's the only way we can find our point. A day of economic exclusion in Skopje would have much more effect than all the others, which are done. If you want to honour everything you said - and it was right - about scientific research, studies and anything else, you should not go with the cross in your hand, but in one hand have the cross and on the other hand something else, as our ancestors did in the revolution of 1821 and elsewhere, to solve all our problems. Finally, because you are the only one from SYRIZA who deals with religious issues, you are the link between Orthodoxy and government, send them the message that panic, starting from what is going to take place in Lesvos the day after tomorrow with the Pope and the Patriarch and various others, is not going to pass. Let everyone know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u213	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, in your question you have had a part in holding a referendum. I think that the debate on a referendum cannot be held at the moment, neither in time nor in substance, because there is no agreement between the two sides. There is nothing that can - even with that logic you mentioned - be brought before the Greek people. I would like to respond to some of the issues that you have in your question, namely that we have raised the issue of asymmetricalism in all fora and everywhere, and indeed, the Foreign Minister himself, in June 2015, raised the issue of alphabetically within Skopje itself during his visit there. So I want to mention a few things to close. Indeed, we are not opposed to the European and Euro-Atlantic perspective of FYROM. However, there is a basic objective condition. In order to continue and complete the European and Euro-Atlantic course of each candidate state, it must embrace and respect in practice the fundamental principles on which the organisation on which it is based, and in particular the principle of good neighbourly relations, which is the basis of a partnership or alliance between States. As for what is the case, in order to inform the world - and the intervention of the Greek state - the practical use of the name in force within the UN is in accordance with Decisions 817 and 845. Such decisions shall be binding on any specialised body, body or even multilateral forum within the system. The Agreement between the European Union and the Member States, signed in Conclusions of 12 December 2015, shall apply within the European Union. A time limit for implementation is to find a mutually acceptable solution. NATO is well-established to use the provisional name and to the Council of Europe, the resolution 23 adopted. I can testify to the House. There are these decisions. Mr President, we insist that, in order to be able to resolve the name issue, our neighbours must gain a realistic, pragmatic approach and demonstrate the ability of the spirit of honest compromises. Solution with their constitutional name doesn't exist. We insist on the need for a commonly accepted solution for all uses and against all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-14-S1-commons.u216	With the agreement of the House at 13.44', the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 15 April 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision, pursuant to Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexis Tsipras and the MPs of his party and the President of the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the Members of his Party, to investigate the legality of lending the political parties as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country.
