ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House Thursday 10 March 2016 the news sheet. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the Fund for Archaeological Resources. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 618/4-3-2016 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the treatment of the burden of the health structures of Kilkis on account of refugees - migratory flows. 3. The Question No 613/3-2016 by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the destruction of the catch by vintzotrats. 4. The Question No 616/3-2016 by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance concerning the bonds of natural persons. 5. The Question No 624/7-2016 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafili to the Minister of Finance regarding the privatisation plans of the company "LARCO" and the safeguarding of the jobs of its employees. 6. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, asked the Minister of Finance for the management of the sanctuary under number 622-7-3-2016. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 615/3-2016 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the possible establishment of offices of a Turkish organisation in Greece. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 621/7-2016 by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health on the work of building the new wing of the hospital of Amalias. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 619/4-3-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the suspension of the increase in VAT rates on the second group of the Aegean islands, which are facing the negative consequences of the immigration issue and which is due to enter into force on 1 June. 3. The Question No 614/3-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the cultivation of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace. 4. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Question 612/1-32016 on the question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the proportionate studies of the single benefits. 5. The Question No 625/7-2016 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in the hospital and generally in the public health sector in Lesvos. 6. The question under number 588/29-2-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Apostolos Karastasis to the Minister of Health concerning the problem of the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 584/29-2-2016 of the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the implementation of the Ministerial Decision concerning the concession of Olympic Village sports facilities to the Municipality of Acharnon. 8. The question under number 582/26-2-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and the Aegean, on the provision and safeguarding of workers' working relations at the Piraeus Port Agency, following the sale of the majority package of shares in the PPA. 9. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the assignment of our name to the Skopje. 10. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 11. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the working rights of cleaners employed in the schools of the country. 12. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the Recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re-entry of workers from WASTE - SOLUTIONS. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by no. 1829/10-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the lifting of restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Censorship of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in European Union matters". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Before giving the floor to those who object to the ratification of this agreement, I would like to make the following announcements to this House. The Foreign Affairs, National Defence and Finance Ministers submitted a draft law on 8-3-2016: "Following the RACVIAC - Security Cooperation Centre". The Ministers of Finance, Economy, Development and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and State submitted a draft law on 8-3-2016: ‘Adaptation of Greek law: (a) to the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) to Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions.’ They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also inform you that for today's debate a special speaker of the Golden Dawn is appointed as the Member of the State Mr Christos Pappas. As a special speaker of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos is appointed. The JRC shall designate Mr Stavros Tassos as a special speaker. The Potami nominated as a parliamentary representative, George Amyras and a special speaker, Mr Spyros Lykoudis. From the Independent Greeks, the MP, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, is appointed as a special speaker. Mr Saridis, Member of the European People's Party, is appointed as the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u4	The procedure is exactly as you said it and it is right to invoke the Rules of Procedure of the House. As was the last time, however, with the tabling of an amendment by the Minister of State while discussing an agreement, we changed the procedure, because we are no longer in the short parliamentary process of sanctions under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, which you mentioned, but in a normal legislative procedure, to the extent that a ministerial amendment is tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u5	The amendment will be supported and you will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u6	No, Mr. President. You must clarify, in consultation with the President of Parliament, how this House will work. Because we have two versions: One version is that once a ministerial amendment is tabled, the procedure under Rule 108 and the others has been abandoned and, of course, we are going to proceed to a normal, short, procedure where the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives are speaking on the draft law, the ratification, those who have disagreed, such as Mr Pappas, but also on the amendment by all, namely the rapporteurs and the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives. The other version is to go to the closure of the Democratic Republic and to the opening of the procedure for discussing the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u7	I will give you the floor after the amendment. Doesn't that cover you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u8	Oh, no. Our rapporteur must also speak. How's it going to happen? Let's all take the floor. The amendment is for red loans, it is not a simple matter. The extension may find us in agreement, but it has a matter here. So you have to choose what to do. You'll either do one or the other. But make a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u9	Okay. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u10	But how? You start the process once Mr. Pappas gets the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u11	To talk about the contract first and then you will be given the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u12	But also the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives normally do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u13	Whoever asks for the floor will take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u14	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I will take you out of the difficult position. You will allow me to speak two in one, namely to give me a little more time and also to talk about Crisis, as Mr Loverdos said, but also about the amendment. Regarding the Clearance of the Memorandum of Understanding between Jordan and Greece, this Memorandum was signed in June 2014 by the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time and by the corresponding Jordanian Minister at the time. This Memorandum is part of a revised European Neighbourhood Policy of the European Union with the Arab world and, more generally, with non-member countries of the European Union. The explanatory memorandum accompanying the Memorandum to be ratified states that the main objective of this initiative is to make use of traditionally exceptional bilateral relations. Indeed, we have excellent bilateral relations with the Arab world and Jordan, which in this time - and not only that, of coexistence, but also of the Samara coexistence - are being shaken, with our neighbours now and with the relations we have developed - well or badly - with the state of murderer in the region, Israel. So this Memorandum, which we are debating today, provides institutional know-how from our country, provides for visits by officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Greek Public Administration, to discuss issues of European interest, for us to support some of the Jordanian reform efforts to strengthen - as is called - the democratic institutions and for the social and economic development of the friend country. First of all, I think that this Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries is to be ratified in plenary after two years. And one will wonder: why this delay? As far as the contents of the Memorandum are concerned, it is considered insignificant for us. There will be some meaningless visits - as I said - from representatives of the Foreign Ministers. There will be no object. Of course, there should be channels for communication with the country of the Arab world. At least for us, however, they don't need meaningless meetings without object. That is why we consider this Memorandum to be a pretext and I would say insignificant and do not believe it serves the interests of our country. Why don't these meetings need no meetings that cost the Greek people and say it clearly? - Diplomatic tourism is no good to us. At the moment, things are serious about our country. Greece is in danger. Serious moves are needed from our country and within and outside the European Union, which will be able to give significant solutions to the very serious problems, such as the problem of the mass migration of hundreds of thousands of Muslims from a number of Arab countries, whether they are at war or not. They come here to cross Europe and are eventually excluded from Greece, since the rest of the countries have essentially closed their borders. There are fences everywhere. Until the neighbouring states of Bulgaria, Skopje, Albania, rise fences. Only Greece remains - let me express - a clear vine, that the downtrodden ones should come here all over the world, that people who are different religions, races and cultures should come here. These people, if you remember and see the Internet and the news releases, raise their heads with their hands cut. These people, kind and nice, will say that we want them to participate in our own education, that they are Greek! By ministerial lips it even sounded - listen, listen! - that these people, these invaders in our country, will offer a solution to the demographics! There are thousands of people, thousands of people from Morocco, Algeria, Iran and Pakistan who do not face a war conflict in their country. So since we are talking today about a memorandum of understanding and understanding with Arab countries and even Syria's neighbours, our criticism will stand that these countries should assume their responsibilities. Let us not forget that Jordan is actively involved in the alliance made by the Americans to throw Syria's legitimate President Assad, allowing Europe and especially Greece to face the consequences of the upheaval in Syria or any other turmoil decided on by NATO and the United States in the Eastern Mediterranean. On this major issue of illegal immigration - immigration, as you would like to say - Golden Dawn immediately submits a draft law in the next few days so that this problem can be resolved and that this slave trade can finally be stopped. Believe me there are solutions. Political will needs it. Mr President, it is understandable that we are voting against the Memorandum which we are discussing today and which we are going to go to a fundamental thing. It's the amendment. I will not dwell on the point of order, whether or not this amendment should come to a pointless debate, a ratification, that is, rather than a draft law, which will also be from the relevant ministry, from the Ministry of Finance and not from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In any case, I read here that an extension of one month is given for the sale of red loans with a mortgage. It says: ‘... define correctly the applicable framework for the transfer of claims from consumer credit contracts, contracts with mortgage or addition of a mortgage on first-stage, loans and credits to small and medium-sized enterprises, as defined by European Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC of 6 May 2003...’. In other words, we should offer the houses, the first residence of the Greeks, and even note - because no one has dealt with the Golden Dawn alone, and we had received assurances from the relevant Minister - that the first residence of the Greeks is the first residence of the Greeks, who do not have the sun fate, which is cut off by the pension that the Greek National Agency has cut them off, which will also take them home. So we have food, housing, free transport for invaders and Greeks, the state itself, the government itself, they are voting to take homes! Is that a democracy? Is this, in the end, the epitome - and I speak in the ancient Greek sense of the term, so that you do not rise up and shout - of tyranny? That is why the people must react. I read below, which says that instead of having a final date for the first free houses to come to the funds, it will be on 15 April, to confiscate the Greeks' homes. I mean, you earn a month's political time. Secondly, whatever happens since 15 April and then you know - and the world knows - that black days are coming. Here comes, I would say, the big week comes the crucifixion of our people. The first residence of the Greeks, the castle, the fortress of every Greek, his reply, what the Greeks have in his DNA, a tiles for his children, a tiles for his family, comes with the help of the same state, the so-called left-wing state, left-wing government, which talks about social justice and social justice, to confiscate him. A long week, then, for our people, but you should know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the Great Week ends in crucifixion, but every crucifixion has the resurrection. You all will rub your eyes when our people wake up and understand his power. And then there will be no large-scale trade unionists to smoke their struggle, as was the case with farmers. There will be no human beings - how many of these traitors are there? - that they'll catch up with the Greeks. Mr President, the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government, with this amendment and with its tactics, is winds and will reap storms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, please speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u18	Again? After we ended up in the process. Let Mr. Tassos speak, and then you take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u19	The procedure has not been established.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u20	The procedure has been defined. We will give the floor to the rapporteurs and to the special speakers on the amendment afterwards, to those who want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Loverdos has made a very good point that the process is changing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Loverdos got an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u23	Allow me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u24	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u25	If you accept this, it means that we are also discussing the amendment, but with the Minister present who submits it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u26	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u27	Who are we going to talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u28	He's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u29	It's coming, but we need to know exactly what the process is. See you at Mr. Amanatidis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u30	The Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u31	Are we sure he's coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u32	Mr Tassos has the floor. Do you want to talk about both of them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u33	No, I'll talk about the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u34	Five minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u35	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. Mr President, it is challenging and revealing, the ruins, pain and death left behind by the Arab Spring, to be regarded as an appropriate ground for the establishment of democratic institutions - see the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie - and socio-economic development - see capitalist development - because this convention does nothing but inspire the kind of growth that serves the great capital. And that means smashing wages, pensions and labour rights and war to claim control of their natural resources and transport routes in the region. This comes to deepen this treaty and comes to put the people of Jordan on the chariot of what any growth is for a handful of people. It is therefore clear that we can only vote against such a treaty, and I would complement it when the ones that caused the war and pushed away from their homes millions of people, today shedding crocodiles and even more to raise walls and vote for Nazi inspiration, such as in Denmark, for the confiscation of valuables or to propose regulations - their fellows here in Greece - for concentration camps where immigrants work for free, so that they can buy the food they will be given. That is what I have to say, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr Tassos, and for the brief speech. Mr. Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u37	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I note, from the outset of my speech, that the committee responsible has been the overwhelming majority of agreement in this ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Finance of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on matters of cooperation in the European Union. The Memorandum of Understanding which comes to be ratified is important to know that it came and was signed on the initiative of Greece and signed on 10 June 2014 in Athens, as speakers have mentioned, when Jordan's Foreign Minister visited our country. What's his target? The use of traditional political relations between the two states in the direction of providing institutional know-how on European issues of interest to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening relations with Jordan and supporting the Jordanian reform efforts, in order to strengthen the democratic institutions and the country's socio-economic development, is a firm aim for the European Union. Given that Jordan was recognised as a Mediterranean country, a partner of the European Union, but also because of the country's strategic nature, a hub of the southern neighbourhood and the Arab world, of course, the institutional framework for the bilateral relations between Jordan and the European Union, is, as is well known, determined by the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement, as well as by the 2012 Action Plan, adopted in the context of the southern dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy. Acknowledging, therefore, the significant experience of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the institutions in implementing the common policies of the European Union, in this memorandum of understanding, our country is making a decisive contribution to the implementation of the reform procedures launched by the Contracting Party, with the aim of strengthening cooperation and the approach between Jordan and the European Union. The specific arrangements in this Memorandum provide for assistance for the development of institutional infrastructure through the exchange of experience, expertise and know-how in the implementation of policies. This assistance is implemented through educational programmes, visits, joint studies and research and other related activities. It is also possible for the Contracting Parties to seek the financing of such programmes and of projects of action by the institutional cooperation and financing mechanisms operating within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, with the ratification of this agreement, we will have significant benefits for our country, through the upgrading of our national relations with Jordan, which, on the one hand, operates traditionally on the one hand as a factor of stability in the wider Middle East region and, on the other, at this time, is hosting a constantly growing number of Syrian refugees. With a view to developing wider national geopolitical good neighbourly relations and with a view to undeniably supporting processes of democratic reform and economic development, I, of course, recommend the legislative ratification of this draft law. Obviously, more could be done. However, the relevant Memorandum of Understanding begins and continues with good relations. Invoking the fact from some political forces that "it's nothing" and zeroing everything cannot be in our minds. Anything that is positive, I think, should be recognised and perhaps there should be an absolute consensus. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u38	And we thank you for your respect for time. Mr. Lykoudis, it is reasonable to note - your demand. The Minister is coming. I've heard he's on his way. I will first give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur. Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u41	What Mr Lykoudi said is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u42	I said that, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, you will give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur. If you think it's right, you should also watch it, i.e. interrupt for five minutes. What is SYRIZA's rapporteur? Is it a given to the Minister? Can't he make an observation? Can't he say something? Shouldn't the government listen? The government is here with Mr. Amanatidis. That's right. But do you consider it complete?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u44	Not if you insist on interrupting, we'll get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u45	I don't insist. I put it at your discretion. If Mr. Amanatidis feels that he can carry it out, we can sit with Mr. Amanatidis. But without the Minister being here to take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, let us have a break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u47	That is correct, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u48	All right, we'll take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u49	Make it easy before we move on. I would like to talk about the parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u50	Don't get ahead of yourself, Mr. Amanatidis. We're interrupting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of Parliament, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 13th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Foreign Minister, Mr Amanatidis, has the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like to refer to the amendment - an addition tabled by Members of the SYRIZA concerning the replacement of provisions of Presidential Decree 141/2014, as regards the conditions for obtaining proof of naval capacity and the rights of service on ships. As is understandable, I am not in fact responsible for accepting the amendment, in fact without the presence and assent of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, who is the only one responsible for replacing the provisions of this Presidential Decree. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u53	The Minister has the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling this amendment on the suspension of the provisions of Article 3 of Law No4354/2015 for an additional month. I would remind you that this law concerns the suspension of consumer credit contracts, contracts which have a mortgage or an addition of a mortgage, first residence and credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. These three categories of red loans are, as you know, under negotiation in this first assessment cycle. It is therefore proposed to suspend the suspension for another month of this provision until the framework for the implementation of these categories of loans is finalised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u55	Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u56	On the amendment, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u57	For the amendment, yes. You have five minutes, Mr Ballis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u58	And less, Mr President. What I want to say is that what we are asking, as the Minister quite rightly said, is an extension of one month to define this framework, so that we can shape the protection framework for these categories of red loans. As has been said quite rightly, it is not just housing loans. It's every kind of loan that has a mortgage on a real estate and that could be at risk. It is well known that, on the other hand, there is a request for the complete liberalisation of all loans so that they can be transferred to non-banking institutions, what we are saying and we are still calling'market loops'. What we want and want is protection - and horizontal protection - of all these categories of loans. This one-month extension will be the period during which negotiations will also be given, as it is included as the content of the negotiation and this plan. It will therefore enable us to shape this protective framework that we are seeking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the Ministerial Amendment is concerned, we shall in principle agree and vote in favour of it. However, I cannot support the fact that once again a ratification of an international treaty between Greece and another country comes an amendment, and in fact we go into a bad legalization. I understand the urgency of the procedure, of passing and giving this extension of one month, but in any case I think that the government could also find some other ways and avoid that legislation being adopted. As regards the parliamentary amendment to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, we will vote against it because the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy was not even here, to explain to us the urgency of this amendment. I think it is not a matter that has to go through today. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs has come to respond to an unrelated amendment, so we cannot find the point of going through this procedure. That is why we are against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u62	Minister, first of all, we would like to say the congratulations for yesterday's award to the Prime Minister of the title of honorary doctor from a private university in Turkey. I'm glad you're taking big steps, even in the next country, at the universities. Of course, there really is going to be a special thesis about his behaviour, how the Prime Minister tells so much lies and how easily the citizens were voting for these lies. It's a thesis that needs to be done. Let it be done, at least, in a neighbouring state, since our own universities cannot make use of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u63	Fortunately, there have also been perforations about PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u64	From PASOK, you have several, Mr. Kurubli, Mrs. Jack, who is your State Secretary. I think they'll help you too much. It's one of those executives that can help you. Ms. Jackis is your State Secretary and Mr. Kurublis, with twenty-five years on them, will give you the procedures. But here, Minister, I would like to say to you: you have brought an amendment - and of course we support the amendment - but it shows that you are not prepared. It is well known that you yourself said that he would close the program from week to week. You remember last year. Now you're saying the review will be closed from month to month. Last month you brought back an extension. Now you're bringing in new ones. Do you want to do it for six months, so you can be sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u65	If you wish...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u66	Minister, I know your looseness. We've discussed her. I'm not coming back to this. I think we know. The point is that when we voted on the bill, and you yourself said that by 15 February you would have closed down all the issues and, more importantly, the issues that go back to the economy. Unfortunately, you come to us today and say to us in this amendment that because of the inability of the government to close what you said was prepared to complete until 15 February, you have not completed it. I'm not gonna ask you to give me a date. You never fall in. So there is no reason to discuss the date when the evaluation and the agreement will be closed. But we are telling you that, as a central issue concerning the economy itself, it concerns the citizens, you show that you are incapable, as a government, of dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u67	You're shutting down all the inability to understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Theonas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u69	Otherwise, we can't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u70	The second - and I am ending this - is that I would like to ask you, Minister, to ask the competent people who answer the questions, who have the power to answer them, to answer the questions of the Members we are tabling. We have tabled a series of questions concerning the old ESDP programme, and in particular the funds that Mrs Cretsu has said, but none of your ministry responds to us. I'm sure you'll give the appropriate instructions now to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. In a short time, Mr Constantinople has also prevented and included criticism of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u72	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Amyras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u74	For the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u75	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with the issue of Turkey. I would say that there are humor between the Turkish neighbours, who proclaimed the Prime Minister, an honorary doctor at a private economic university. And I think there's a lot to learn about how you close the Banks, for example, in your country and how you drive sixty thousand businesses in Bulgaria. I think it will give them good examples of how Mr Tsipras has done this and how he does it sinks the Greek economy, of course. However, the amendment you have tabled, Mr Minister, is another example of the rough piece of legislation, which you understand is the parliamentary procedure. We are discussing the memorandum of cooperation with Jordan and the extension is coming. We will be voting in favour of it, but I would like to ask you some questions, by the way. Articles 1, 2 and 3 of Law No4354/2015 on Red Business, Housing, Consumers, Substances or Subscribing Loans go as far as possible to companies transfering these claims, whose way of creating and operating them is quite simple: Share capital of EUR 100,000 can claim the loans of the world, which you - above all, SYRIZA Members - say you will not let these loans and the homes of the world go to the "freaky nails" of the bankers. Now you know where you're going? Take them to the pawn synergies of the pawnshops. The gold markets, which we see in the neighborhoods, have come together, have made new companies among themselves to get the loans of the world. Where's your sensitivity? By the way, since L.4354/2015 itself obliges these companies to register as established under the law in a special register of the Bank of Greece, I would like you to tell us - please - how many of these companies have already been created, by name, each company separately. We would also like to see if the twenty-day deadlines are respected. Twenty days was the deadline of the company that filed the application to get what is provided by the law to transfer the loans to this company. And if these deadlines are met, how many of these companies have been rejected on the basis of the checks carried out by the Bank of Greece? As we speak of an amendment to this Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and Jordan, it is important to say that in relation to the refugee, Ministerial and Mr President-in-Office, we have a big issue here. Of course, it's still fluid. We will wait for the next summit to see where the issue is going to end. However, already the UN High Commissioner and UNICEF are reacting to that provision in its conclusions, which will exchange appeals from Greece to Turkey and Turkey to some European countries. Have you considered whether it is legal, whether it is compatible with international law? Last but not least, I would like to say on the question of the ferry that we are opening by linking the refugee to national issues. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Cyprus since 8 December 2009 has blocked Turkey's accession process to the European Union. He first blocked six and then released one of six. So he's blocked five chapters negotiating. Now from the text of the conclusions of the previous session, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, we see that he is talking about speeding up the process of opening up these funds. It is another suspicious, bizarre and dangerous link between the refugee issue and the country's national issues and, of course, Cyprus. So I ask you whether there is a risk that Cyprus's reaction and the five negotiating chapters, which Cyprus has blocked, could be negotiated with Turkey? Please, we would like clean answers on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, could I have the floor on a point of order? I want to ask something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u80	I would like you to tell me, in principle, whether the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping ultimately applies. Will it be discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u81	Secondly, because some misunderstandings can arise, the amendment by the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism to extend one month, we are voting in favour of it, even this one month. Because in my prototype I denounce it, do not take the view that we are saying 'no'. We are saying 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u82	You will tell it at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u83	In conclusion, I would like to say something, Mr President, because there is a lot to be said here about the Prime Minister who went to the university, who became a doctorate of honor, and so on. I think we are wrong because relations have now been upgraded. While we used to have only bars, we now have doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u85	The problem with the amendment is the same as the problem with No.4354/2015, which actually opens the way - it sets the ground, that is - that distress funds should not only be managed but also sold to these non-performing loans. We in L.4354/2015 voted'residents' and with the same logic we now vote'residents'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u86	In the law, we had voted 'v.'. In the extension of the amendment, we had voted 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u87	That's right. In the extension of the amendment, we had voted 'the present'. We are therefore voting 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u89	Let Mr. Katsikis also speak for himself, who hasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are discussing an extension where, instead of disagreeing or agreeing to it, we have extended it to a debate of many factors that caused this extension, namely, the red loans. If we really want to see how we have been faced with these red loans that the government is now called upon to manage, we need to take into account, beyond the amount of inhuman and cruel measures, as they are imposed by the quartet and the volume of red loans, which have been created many years ago, on the basis of financial expansion and in combination with the tempting interest rates, creating excessive liquidity. It was an excessive liquidity and lending, which was given on the basis of Greek citizens' incomes, which they do not have today. There are no reasons why they were curtailed by the previous governments whether they were wage income or pension income. So we are calling today for an extension, with an amendment to the bill that we have discussed, to ratify the agreement between Greece and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, so that the correct legal framework for the transfer of claims from consumer credit contracts to mortgage is chosen, but this is the essence of another subject. And because I have no more to say, Mr President, I am enough to say that we are voting on this amendment, which has come. And if there is to be a further extension, it should be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u93	Minister, I will begin as Mr Katsikis has finished, because there will be a re-examination. Since the Bank of Greece, as we read in the papers, is still negotiating and has not actually come to the regulation, it would be advisable to leave one month in this amendment, make it two, three, and bring us back as the correct and reasonable one, rather than rejoining one month and requesting a postponement. We are in favour of this amendment and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u95	On the basis of what Mr Constantinople said and what many colleagues have said, of course, and we have no objection to that extension of one month - good will do, bad will not do - since the government is not ready. And that is what needs to be underlined: since the government is not ready. They said - and we discussed it in November - for a deadline of 15 February. February 15th was March 15th. And now it comes and becomes April 15th. What indicator are these extensions? It is an indicator of the fact that it has not been completed at any level - nor at the level of these loans - the negotiation. And we are "Baroufakada" number two, with disastrous consequences for the economy. I hear colleagues saying, "Hey, and what do you mind? We're negotiating. That's why we're late." The answer is that it does not matter because it affects the economy, because it extends the loose ends, not as we say, but as the Minister of Finance says in this Chamber. On Thursday he avoided giving, at the request of Mr. Cremastino, a timeline. The Prime Minister had given Monday, the Minister of Finance did not. Mr. Juliarakis, however, after the speech, told us that everything has been closed and that the 2018 deficits remain pending, and therefore the relevant measures will be taken in the medium term. I ask, Mr President, how has the insurance solved? Firstly, what is the conclusion of the negotiations on this? Secondly, how does the tax result? Third, how have the issues of 2016 deficits, 2017? And by the way, and on the occasion, how have they come to an end to the outstanding issues of red loans? This is what the Minister has to tell us, who every day tells us that "we have to finish" and "fine", but the Greek economy becomes the bridge of Arta for the second time. In the 'psychisms' with which we are being answered by SYRIZA MPs and ministers, I see the peace of Soviet bureaucrats. I see the peace of political bureaucrats, who don't feel...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u96	Finally! Mercy! Anti-Communism sucker!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u98	But at last, a rope-shoe's got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u99	You are a parliamentary representative. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u100	All right, accept this and the holidays accepted. I repeat that in peace with the issues of the national economy, with the immobilisation of the economy, in the situation where no one invests half of the euro, because he does not know what will happen in Greece, only the political bureaucrat responds, who does not understand that the political unfinishedness and the lack of political instability or the delays of the state depend on the economic process. So we want the Minister who came here today asking for an extension, which the House is giving to him - from what you see - almost unanimously. A 'present' has been heard so far. The rest of the House says 'yes'. But to tell us, by making use of a situation in this House of privileged government - so much 'yes' to a governmental uncertainty, to an indication of government's uncertainty - if this matter is closed and, if it closes, to what direction. What are the configuration designs? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is, Mr President, if it did not bring this regulation - and I am closing it - and it has brought the substantive rules, if, instead of the extension, it has resolved the matter during the negotiations it has done, what would you tell us, what would you tell us today in this House? This is what we expect to hear from you, how ready and on what basis are you ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, for keeping time. Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone has to apologize for the issue of red loans, it is you, Mr Loverdos. Three recapitalisations of the banks were made, but eventually the red loans you hid them under the carpet. So the amendment does not concern anything new. What today's amendment - and the Minister has said - is to extend for another month the exemption of housing loans, loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and loans guaranteed by the Greek State. We have to understand that this move is part of the overall negotiation and one of the issues of the overall negotiation also concerns the red loan file. For the first time a Greek government managed to raise the issue of debt from the most official lips, that is, from the President of the Eurogroup. This alone creates a dynamic. Indeed, it is a pity that opposition is currently trying to reduce the importance of this statement and this move. It is a pity that it is fading into such views and dynamical. Have you been identified with Shoeble's views? Tell us if that's the case. Stop building, on every occasion, political specs in order to obtain political benefits. Stop constantly making short, miserable and petty opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that, in fact, in confirming what was said just now, the government is in a privileged position, in the sense that, while such an amendment, Minister, if we were to come back just before you became a government, you would report it and with cries, we would support it. But a question is reasonably raised: Are the moments we live in normal? The government, Minister, gives the impression that things in our country are moving very mildly, very stablely, nothing happens. The government is loose. He doesn't legislate. Legislative work at the moment is not in Parliament, when the economy collapses, the assessment is in the air and no one knows what is going on - and I will ask questions about this - and the issue of refugees is open, a refugee - immigration issue that takes explosive proportions. Inside the House unites us over and beyond the parties the word "Greece". I will not say that the New Democracy is more sensitive than any of you, but all Greeks are the same and we love our country and common goal is the good of our country. But we don't see the reality. Does the reality, unfortunately, not say today that an agreement was not reached the day before yesterday? Today Greece is with closed borders. Caravans of immigrants and refugees leave the Greek islands and Greece. They're multiplying by thousands. So they're getting into a ruthless question. What about this world? What's the management? The Prime Minister well does, when he makes public relations, public relations with his Turkish counterpart. He is awarded and becomes an honorary university professor at a private university. That's a positive development, too. Minister, is he making agreements with Turkey on freedom of the press? Are we going to get know-how on press and media freedom, SYRIZA colleagues, from Erdogan, who closes the channels in an arbitrary and authoritarian manner? Is Greece going to do it? Is that the model of our country's liberation? Is that the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u105	They do the same here, Mr President. Why do you wonder?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u106	I wonder, Mr. Loverdo, why this is where we've lost our minds. We're out of reality with what we see around us. Mr. Minister of Development, we are, in fact, entering the stage that the institutions and the Greek programme have come to an assessment. It's positive they've come. And it is good that you accept that it is good. I remind you what you were saying a year ago about a troika, about throwing them out, you'll never see them again, that they're coming to the ministries and so forth. I saw them at the Ministry. You see them in Hilton. This is a development, too. In any case, because the Greek people, the Greek taxpayer, is struggling today, I would like to ask: What are your red lines? It is not wrong to tell the Greek Parliament, you, who are the defenders of the weak, if you have red lines and what are they. Will the CSCE abolish it? Will basic pensions be cut by the current pensioners, by future pensioners? Is the only one going to be reduced? Will supplementary pension be reduced? Is taxation going to go up? Is this the big red line in SYRIZA, where at the end of the negotiation we will see all this evaporated? All of this is the anguish of the Greek people today, who sees that the wheel of the country lies a government below the circumstances, which has put us in trouble. The Greek people are experiencing an inappropriate third memorandum, while the Greek economy would have come out with a simple assessment and limiting adjustments at the beginning of January. Today Greece would have the same treatment from the international community as Cyprus, which came out of the memorandum, but in Cyprus there was a great difference. There was no SYRIZA. This is the result of your government policy, Minister. I've asked some questions and I'm waiting for answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u108	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u109	Do you want the floor now, Minister? Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, the circle should be closed first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u111	Minister, would you like to hear the other parliamentary representatives and close them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u114	I won't throw the ball at the platform, Mr. President. I shall refer to this amendment. Let me remind you that we, as a JRC, voted against this law, because right through it, started pulling out the sweater and releasing the auctions, as well as managing and granting red loans to the various funds. And with today's amendment, which is the second series, there is a new extension of the suspension of Article 3. From this point of view, therefore, we cannot agree with this provision and this amendment. We will vote'residents', as we did last time in this extension. And I would like to say, because the criticism of the remaining parties in the Euromono street, the rest of the parties that had voted for memorials in the government, that all of them, for which their clothes are now torn apart, are the ones that have been warmly and passionately defended. In other words, war, refugee, crises, unemployment, poverty and impoverishment are children of the capitalist system, that barbaric and exploitive system you defend. And no matter how many attempts Mr. Loverdos makes to slander socialism, the course of humanity to him will not be prevented. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u115	I wasn't in that mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u116	Well, don't worry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-eight students and students and eight educational sessions of them from the 3rd Gymnasium of Gatsio. We welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to believe that I do not belong to those who have an ownership perception of Parliament and the plenary session. I'm one of those people who make sure they talk when they have something to say. Unfortunately, however, in unrelated bills and things that some do not even need confrontation, there are people taking the opportunity to hear things that really cause you. It can't be heard here about a soviet, and there's a suffocation of the press, that is, that what Erdogan does, we do it. What do you say? I would like to believe that these are predatory positions and have nothing to do with the Greek Parliamentary Republic. I would like to welcome from this Parliament the conclusion of the four parties, because in my view it was powerful paper when the Prime Minister went to Brussels. That's how I see it. Go to Istanbul or go to Izmir and tell Erdogan "are you that, are you that?" We all know that it is a covert democracy in Turkey. So what are you doing? You're going to fight, so your fans can say you're a dude? Excuse me for the expression. I would also like to say this. Mr President, in the last few days, we have been living an incredible study of some people from here assembling - and I am talking about fresh buns, and we should be careful especially in this Chamber - with people who have been sampled for twenty years. There is a banker - I hope he will be acquitted - that half Cyprus is after him for 3.5 billion. There's a canalarch who's dealing with justice. And there is another man who left the country badly and we hear that he has donated to the parties. I see a study from some parties in this House to defend these people. The word complicated and the word corruption reminds them of something? Is there anything in what we need to hit here? I say this because we must be very careful when criticising this government. For once again, it is not just the dead who are wrong. And mistakes were made. There is one difference, the September elections have become invisible, Mr President, nobody mentions them. And some people who at the time knew and advocated make baby virgins today. And they refer to real excesses - I will not deny it - which were taken a year ago. But a Prime Minister, instead of pretending to be the Prime Minister, - his half central Commission and forty-five MPs - had the courage to take the decision to pass on his opinion. I don't think it's a mess, I think it's a healthy thing. Finally, advice that Sovietism and that the channels are about like Turkey and others, not in this Chamber. If nothing else, democracy has been recognised by everyone. Even the Pope, the Catholic, who speaks to billions of people, has brought Greece as an example, like many others in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Criticism and not criticism of the government, I imagine that in the next few days it will be called again, because it sounds like a number of bills are coming after contact with the so-called institutions. So I will not go into other issues today, I will stick to the amendment. I will say, first of all, that it sounds positive for a month. Experience tells us that the government will not have succeeded in a month in completing the regulatory framework, because the law is passed by the end of autumn and we have not seen anything yet. As Mr Saridis said, we read in the press "the Bank of Greece's visits", we read in the press that "the bank is discussing", "the government through Minister Stathakis intends to do...". I would like to raise a practical issue, however, which may not yet have been dealt with: what are these borrowers doing in themselves? And I'm becoming more specific. We have the red loans and we say about the banks that they have to regulate this at the moment. As long as we are delaying regulation, however, we have a big problem. What's the problem? Families, at least, are being charged with interest, delays are being loaded, late payments are being charged. And at the time when the famous moment comes to negotiate the good-faithed, the so-called 'cooperative' borrower - an expression that I do not like, but has already been legislated - with the bank or with the fund to which his loan will have been transferred, the debtor will appear as a greater amount. This will cause him the disadvantage that he should start talking from a higher roof. So, yes, we will vote for this amendment, because it cannot be done otherwise. Nor can we say in the Chamber 'come to auctions', but we are concerned at this point. So I ask the government to clarify the landscape at this time. The regulatory framework, which will be based on the law already adopted, is not sufficient for protection. Why am I saying that? I have said this before from the Plenary Step. Mr President, there are funds management companies such as EUR 100,000 - which is the value of an apartment in the centre of Athens - and we cannot accept the management of the properties and fates of families and households, if you like, who have had the misfortune either to become unemployed or to be found in another business situation and to be debtors to the banks. I say this because small capital creates conditions for immediate enrichment and predatory mood. It is reasonable to say ‘distress funds’. They're these catastrophic funds now. So we think that the government should stand in a short time, at the time of the extension - it will be one, two, three, five months, as Mr Saridis said - and now come to legislation to define a stricter framework within which they will operate. We must not leave it either to the Bank of Greece by regulation, nor to the Governor of the Bank of Greece, because that would mainly be where bank criteria were concerned. I read in the Sunday "Kathemerini" that there is a discussion between the systemic banks and the Bank of Greece, how the framework will be defined. However, we must not forget that the banks in Greece today, after the third recapitalisation - I will not go into these issues, they are not present - have large private investors, foreign investors - and we read the day before yesterday that they are trying to change the board of directors to Piraeus Bank from Mr Polson's fund - who want direct profits there. So we think - and I shall end, Mr President - that I do not want to say more - technically speaking at the moment about the protection of the small property, the small Greek family, that within the time of the extension we should see even the legislative framework and create such conditions that are not left to the rules of the Government nor to the decisions of the Governor of the Bank of Greece to come to Parliament in a short time to discuss these issues. Parliament must also have a decisive say in the protection of so-called borrowers and have a picture of how red loans will be managed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u123	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, thank you for giving up the speech. I have two thoughts to make. In relation to rhetoric, which has been developed here at the moment, I think the opposition has gone from defending an old'success story' - which is useless at the moment and ineffective - in his theory 'all is disastrous'. And, of course, the rhetoric that has been exhausted in irony has also been heard. The irony and the policy of 'all is disastrous' and 'the government has no effect', I think it shows the weakness of the arguments, which have nothing to do with reality. The cooperation between the public universities in Greece and the universities in Turkey has also taken place in the margins of the meeting. The journey was an historic moment in relations between Greece and Turkey. The Supreme Cooperation Council, which took place in Izmir, has brought tangible results, which you must recognise. You can't close your eyes and you can't say that "If reality doesn't agree with us, so much worse for reality." There has been an update of the readmission agreement for refugees in Turkey, which will help control the refugee flows. It was also explicitly said that the traffickers' circuit would be hit on Turkey's coast. The interconnection of the ports of Thessaloniki - Smyrna was signed, so that work on a fast railway line "Igoumenitsa - Istanbul", the flight "Athens - Ankara" directly, anti-military works at Evros and the agreement on the second bridge of the Gardens. A memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Tourism Ministers, Ms Koudoura and the responsible Turkish. And, of course, Thessaloniki will have its honour after the invitation was accepted so that the next Supreme Cooperation Council can be held in Thessaloniki. In all of this one can't close one's eyes. We need to see the reality. We are struggling, and we have results. And this government will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u126	Minister Stathakis has the last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u127	I find it difficult to answer Mr Constantinople, who recently - I would like to remind this House - is prone to attack me personally. I have my honour at this time for a number of issues. However, I must remind him of 'truths and lies' - this platoon, for which the generations of the future will be doctoral, focusing on SYRIZA - that there are several PhDs for 'truths and lies' in the country's long-term governance by PASOK. So I'd refer him to that literature. He's quite sufficient. So, in future, let the dissertation show whether there is the slightest lie in a government which was elected after an agreement, in a government which, on the first day, submitted the roadmap on how this agreement will be implemented step by step, a government which respects this roadmap, the two cycles of negotiation, the recapitalisation of banks, the first assessment, the renegotiation of public debt. This roadmap is implemented. I'm looking to find out what the lie is and I'm coming back to it, because there's another dimension. Everyone's investing in failure, not closing the first evaluation. Six months called for Mr Constantinople to extend the law, hoping that the economy will suffer the disastrous consequences of the instability which he has formulated, saying that the evaluation and Mr Tsakalotos and I and everyone must be closed. It has to be closed. It's been a month late. Is it the government's fault? There is someone in Parliament who will stand up and say that three weeks ago the debate had begun, the institutions asked for time, they left and returned today. What exactly is the government's fault for these three weeks? You will have been informed somewhere that there are different opinions within the institutions, that there has been a great debate, that... What is the government's fault? Make us the critic to understand it. Does the government not have a place in this negotiation? Doesn't he have a place in the budget? Doesn't he have a place in the insurance? Does he have a place in red loans or does he not have a strong view of the fund? Is there a man who will say that at the moment the problem in the negotiation is that the government lacks clear positions on how to deal with each of these issues? The institutions, of course, have different views and this is the subject of negotiation, but under the circumstances, I repeat, firstly, that criticism is completely unfair, that the government does not come with very specific positions on all four issues. It is unfair to suspect criticism that the government is blocking the negotiation, that criticism is unfair and very unjust, that the government is moving on a constant range of lies with which it is trying to mislead anyone. On the second point, the meeting of the two Prime Ministers yesterday in Smyrna, firstly, I would like to remind you - it has been said - that it is a meeting within the framework of the permanent meetings of the Cooperation Council between the two countries, the fourth in turn. I wonder why voices from opposition do not recognise, that this is an established practice, it did not start from us, it is the fourth Supreme Council what was done yesterday. That is what the two countries are seeking to gain wider economic cooperation, and at the same time, of course, with regard to the situation of the refugee issue, I think that yesterday's meeting and, indeed, the debates in Brussels were another political one. I therefore wonder why this is being poured out again in a statement of the university's nature in these discussions whether it was private or public. In view of the fact - I would like to remind you that Mr Constantinople is missing - that the university is an institution of the Smyrna Chamber, it is not private, it is a chamber, so that we can have matters in their dimension. If you want to reopen the subject of private universities - the PASOK has fought it for many years, fortunately without result - to have this debate. Let me remind you for a long time, since I participated in this debate, that private universities implying PASOK do not exist either in the United States or in a European country within the European Union, in the hard core of European countries. This debate is closed. You identify private universities with institutions, such as whether or not students pay tuition fees and various others. Universities shall be either public or state or public interest. There is now another debate. We have closed it - I think - fortunately in Greece and we have protected the system of universities quite a bit from being degenerated into an institution for the legalisation of a university type of education. For the regulatory framework on red loans, there is absolutely no ambiguity about households with housing loans. Since 1 January there has been the institutional framework in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u128	I know her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u129	We need to complete - we agree - the definition of a co-operating borrower and a number of other issues. However, they are in force. The protection procedure applies if and if a household belongs to the category of people who have state aid - 25% of the poorest - or to the intermediate category from 25% to 60% guaranteed by the law. Secondly, the Bank of Greece, liberation and establishment. No company has been established and no company has been licensed. I am referring to the business loans where the market has been liberalised by the previous law. For business loans to be carried out, companies need to be set up. The regulatory framework for the establishment of the companies is outlawed by the law and is implemented by the Bank of Greece. This hasn't gone any further. It's gonna happen sometime. In my opinion, it will take some time until the institutional framework is formulated in its detail, on the basis of which these companies can be founded. So the answer is that the procedure has not begun. A number of issues have been raised, which we will also discuss in this negotiations on the regulatory framework, so we will soon have some decisions on how, in what way, the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of these enterprises will operate. That's all I wanted to say. This whole big problem, the huge problem of red loans must be tackled - our commitment is to deal with - in ways that will result. However, given that they will maintain a very high degree of social protection. This is our strategy. For the first time I thought, and I think that we have a complex system that can deal with this problem in its essence and in its heart. We have already voted for a complex system, which concerns the protection of first residence, we have new institutions that we are establishing and will implement in full growth by June, the centres of borrowers, the management of private debt, the central government institution. There is an ongoing debate on the management of red loans within the banking system in a very different way. There are institutions and the strategy of the government, which - I repeat - when it is completed after this negotiation, we will see - and you will see - that it is a full range that promotes the solution of the problem, while maintaining the highest degree of social protection that this management must have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u131	What do you want, Mr. Loverde?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u132	I want the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u133	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u134	I am reacting to what the Minister says in the Rules of Procedure. I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u135	All right, Mr. Loverde. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u136	Let's close, Mr. President. What else can we hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u137	Are colleagues in a hurry? We had an hour's parliamentary procedure and they want to leave? I don't understand. Anyone who's not in the mood to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u138	There are rules of decency here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Lovedre, you're not an exception in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u140	I am not asking for an exceptional reason. The Minister spoke and after what he said, I request the floor as Parliamentary representative on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u141	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u142	I would like to say to the Minister that what he said about private universities may open up a dialogue on the basis of the revised Constitution review and we will have great interest in hearing it. However, what he said about it, criticizing us, did he not understand, was he talking about us? We made these proposals, which failed, as he said? I don't understand, did the Minister get well? Look at the right thing, saying what he said? I guess not. He said what's come down to his head, but not what we've ever said. There are also the minutes of the House, and there is the recent history that does not verify it. As far as his amendment is concerned, I have made an honest effort, and I ask him - waiting for an answer - to resolve the issue that the government has in mind so far. And that's not what he's answering. The second extension is a negotiation product which does not result in the government being unable to resolve the many technical problems, which may exist, in the case of consumer loans, loans with mortgages or mortgage additions and small and medium-sized business loans, that is to say, what its amendment regulates? Do you have any technical difficulties, or do you have a negotiation problem? And if you have no problem negotiating and have technical or other difficulties, what is the direction of the regulation that you have prepared so far and want to be extended to complete it? To tell us that you will be socially sensitive, you say it on all matters. But here, we have not asked you that, whether you are or are not socially sensitive. We have asked you what the direction of regulation is, as you have so far shaped it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u143	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u144	Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, for the procedure and to be correct, I would like to say that I accept the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Economy, Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, namely the one we have discussed. I would just like to say that under the heading: 'Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Criminals of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on Cooperation in European Union' the words 'and other provisions' are added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u146	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr Amyras, you, the new parliamentary representative, have to launch a different practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u148	Silence?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u149	Not of silence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u150	What's the difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u151	Between silence and narcissism there is a great difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I beg your pardon what the different tactics are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u153	Tell us, Mr. Amyras, what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u154	I was asking a question to Mr Amanatidis, and I did not get an answer, on an extremely...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u155	Your view is that you have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u156	I would simply like to remind you that we are asking for the following answer, Minister: Turkey does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus. It is one of the reasons why Cyprus at the Foreign Ministers Council on 8-12-2009 blocked Turkey's accession process to Europe. Yesterday, at the summit, the communiqué spoke about speeding up the process of opening up the five negotiating chapters that Cyprus has blocked. So I ask you: Is there a possibility, is there a risk that Turkey will bypass the reactions of Cyprus, not to recognise the Republic of Cyprus, so that Turkey can offer its cooperation on the refugee problem to the European Union? It is a fundamental question and we want the answer. Has this particular negotiating chapter of Turkey's obligation to recognise the Republic of Cyprus first and then to proceed with accession procedures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u157	He's not lifted. I'll give the answer by way. That's not lifted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u158	Are you a minister? Do you pledge the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to vote on the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u160	Minister, won't I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, will the Minister not answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u162	...I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty one student and three educational attendants from the 1st Highland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adjourned: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Censorship of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in matters of the European Union and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u165	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Censorship of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on Cooperation in European Union and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u167	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u168	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 281 and a special number of 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u170	The amendment, by a general number 281 and a special number 2, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u171	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u173	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Censorship of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in matters of the European Union and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u176	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Criminals of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in matters of the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u178	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-09-S1-commons.u179	With the consent of the House at 11.48 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 10 March 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliamentary control, and the topical and urgent debate.
