ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 5-10-2016 The Minutes of its Third Meeting of Wednesday 5 October 2016, with regard to the vote on the draft law as a whole: ‘Implement the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House the updates on Friday 7 October 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 30/4-10-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister of Environment and Energy regarding the suspension of the operation of the sales store PPC Salamis from 1-10-2016. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 33/4-10-2016 by MP I of the New Democracy, Mr Kikilia, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the new complaints made by Mr Budouri that require immediate answers. 3. The 22/3-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the anti-Greek action by Turkish agents and representatives of the Turkish authorities in Thrace. 4. The 20/3-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on delays in the completion of three extremely important projects for the functioning of the IKA. 5. The 35/4-10-2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, on support for the affected residents of Lefkada from the fire of August 8 and the restoration of damage. 6. The Question No 21/3-10-2016 by MP Achaias of the River Mr. Jason Fotidas to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction of the single price of books. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 31/4-10-2016 topical question by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the free concession of the use of the property of the Centre of Dimitra Grevenes located in the area of Meras of the Municipality of Grevenna in the Municipality of Grevena. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 344-10-2016 by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the progress of the work of remote heating Florina. 3. The 23/3-10-2016 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the fact that the absence of a Greek flag in a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey is a national measure. 4. The 19/3-10-2016 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compensation for farmers due to huge damages caused to crops and livestock in Arcadia by the natural disaster of 25 June. 5. The question by No 366/4-10-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of the country's professional high school. 6. The 26/3-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System (NSS). The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks ‘Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions’. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The sixth question under number 2/3-10-2016 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP I Athens of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the design for the protection of the public space in the center of Athens, since the cases of vandalism continue, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Mr. Toska abroad. Also, the eighth will not be discussed under number 18/3-10-2016, a top-level question by MP I' Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the public consultation on the redefinition of Veria, due to the absence of Mr. Baltas abroad. The second, with number 16/3-10-2016, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and development of Safflis, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Gospel Apostle. The cause is the European Commissioner's visit. The seventh under number 9/3-10-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the tram and metro projects in Piraeus, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Spirtzi. The cause is the bill that will follow. The fourth question, number 3/3-10-2016, on the cancellation of the Patras - Tower street, will not be discussed by Minister Spirtzi, as a result of the failure of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. The cause is the bill that will follow. The second question, under number 11/3-10-2016, on the extension of projects of the "Enhancement of SMEs active in the fields of processing, tourism, trade and services" programme, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr.Alexandros Khiritsis, due to unsettled commitments. There is also the letter from the Secretary of Government stating the absences for the reasons you have heard from the ministers and the State Secretarys. We enter the discussion of the fourth under number 12/3-10-2016 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the teaching of the Religious Course. The Minister of Education, Mr Nikolaos Friends, will answer. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, when this question was written it was certainly timely. Now it has become timely again since the Prime Minister's meeting with the Archbishop yesterday. It was timely at that time, because the Archbishop had declared that the Orthodox character of the lesson of Religiouss was annulled and the Minister stated that the dispute is incomprehensible and is a danger. Yesterday the Archbishop stated that “the misunderstandings were brought up” and the government stated that the programme does not change. Then the interest is to hear the House and the world who are interested in exactly what the program is and what steps will be taken in the relations between the Church and the state in the immediate period ahead. That is about the context of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, there is indeed an attempt to differentiate between relations between the Church and the state. Yesterday's meeting with the hierarchy delegation, led by the Makariot, helped in this direction to explain issues and remove misunderstandings. The first issue, to which we have all agreed and agreed, is that the responsibility for education in our country has the state with its competent bodies. Of course, the Church can express its opinion and we must take into account the debate that is developing more widely on issues such as the lesson of Religiouss. That is what we have done for a long time. This dialogue may not have been enough for the Church. The dialogue never ends. This year we will implement the programmes we have decided on within the competence of the state. They will be applied simultaneously with material that has already been distributed to schools and is last year’s books. We didn't make any new books. The new books will be written at the end of the year. Last year’s books, along with other material, are sources for the lesson. I would remind you that the existing books had met, when they were first published, the strong reaction of the hierarchy. But they have been taught for so many years because, I repeat, the decision on education is a matter of the state, with respect for the Church's view. As with all the lessons, there will be an evaluation of the new programmes this year and before the new books are written, which we hope will be released next year, there will be a dialogue with teachers and ecclesiastical bodies on the issues of the implementation of the new curricula. The state's intention is not to create disputes, it is not to question the distinct roles of the various institutions and especially the top institutions, such as the Church and the state, but in the context of the constitutional powers of the state to be able to advance the major, which is the improvement of education. In this sense, I believe that if we leave moments which do not help this understanding, we can move forward and know that it will be for the benefit of children and for the benefit of education as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, Minister, it is a pleasant message that there will be a conciliation, not a transaction, of course. As you know, in France, after the French Revolution, the adolescence that has been achieved slowly became through this relationship of confidence that has been cultivated, because on the Louises the Church essentially ruled France. You also know that the October Revolution, which somehow attempted to overthrow religious status in the Soviet Union, has not succeeded because, as Plutarch says, it is very difficult to get out of human consciousness the unknown when faced with the great existential problems. This is characteristic and I mention the famous piece of the Plutarch, which I shall read in translation. There it says "you can meet towns without walls, without writing, without kings, without houses, without property, which do not need currency, which do not know theaters and gymnastics, but without altars, sacred and gods who do not resort to prayers, vows, oaths, sacrifices to the acquisition of goods, nor to the prevention of evils, there has never been anyone who has ever seen or seen". This "would never exist" is based on the inability, if you want, of man to explain basic existential questions such as the beginning of the universe and the afterlife. There, then, man resorts. Religious emotion is a complex feeling. And the Church - especially the Orthodox, but also other religions, such as Hebrew religion - played a coherent role, nationally in difficult times. Especially, Hebrew religion, as we know, retained all the world, the scattered nation of Israel. And he held it this way, through religion. These are concepts, which we should also deal with in the same way that they are being treated over time. But I wonder why you don't deal with it in a simple way? That is to say, an hour ago a modern lesson of religion will be introduced, which will compose religions in their shared points, such as, for example, in Europe, France, England, and this will be consistent with the different religions, rather than segregation and contradictions and extremes, which many religions worldwide support. Honestly, I would like you to comment on this, Minister. Why not add an hour of religion to a modern European lesson that will serve this essential purpose? And leave all these stories and conflicts to mutual understanding and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr Minister, since the debate is taking place very calmly, as you should, please specify, if you want, something that you too will have read, that the content of the curriculum in terms of universal doctrine, for example, or the Muslim doctrine, will be defined by the representatives of these two Churches, which is not the case, as it was written in the press - I do not know if that is the case - as far as Orthodox doctrine is concerned. If this is not the case, give this explanation to close the matter, as it should be, consensually and correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I agree with you that we must respect the citizens' religious feelings, recognise the complex role of religion in life and the metaphysical concerns of citizens. Alas. These are guaranteed by the Constitution. And every day the government, not only ours, and other governments with their policy, prove that they respect them. The question we are discussing now is not the issue. It is a question of religious discipline - young people's education. And the article of the Constitution, as you know, does not speak of Christian - much more and especially Orthodox - education as a mission of school. It generally speaks of children’s national and religious education as a mission of school. This means that the school prepares not faithful but citizens. That's very important. And sometimes in the public dialogue, unintentionally or intentionally, this explicit constitutional provision on the objectives of education is falsified. I will agree with you on the general approach you have taken. Of course, it seems to me that you are resorting to a pagan writer to support Christian discipline, as you said. But I understand that this is an anthropological, historical approach to the religious phenomenon. I do not agree with you in the demolition way for the role of revolutions in the addiction of societies. I do not understand what modern societies would be like in fact without the great revolution of Christianity. And I mean the preaching of Christ's love. Indeed, it is an element in our everyday life that modern societies are. And, of course, I do not understand what modern societies would be like without the French Revolution, without the October Revolution, i.e. without the constant anguish of citizens and societies to go forward with society and the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u9	I didn't say about the revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u10	Of course, it is true that, as is often the case, many other times is the message and another is the act. This is happening. That is why we are here in conditions of democracy to monitor the consistency between declarations and actions. With regard to the specific issue you mentioned, we want to reform the lesson of Religiouss - there are specific programmes - with respect, as I repeat, to the different views expressed in order to be a lesson in knowledge of all religions, with particular emphasis, of course, on Orthodox culture, which is a key element in the formation of modern Greek conscience. Mr President, I would also like to tell you, regarding your question, that there are legal commitments from the state, internal and international, concerning the protection of religious minorities in our country. That's what we're following. I'm stressing it. They are religious minorities, unless one wants to give another designation to the existing minorities in Greece. In this sense, when we say that we recognise - and we fight for it as a Greek state - that these minorities, such as Muslims, in our country, do not constitute a national group, but make up a religious minority - this is the official position, which also derives from international conditions - we are obliged to respect the opinion of those minorities in teaching the lesson of Religious. And this teaching is not compulsory. It's optional. Here we are talking about compulsory class of Religious in schools for all the faithful and unbelievers, for the whole population. If we went to confessional models, which are voluntary in Europe, this is another debate. But it's not about the public school. It concerns other institutions, such as churches. The public school in Europe and here, when it does not apply these models, obviously chooses a lesson - I repeat - knowledge of all religions, with emphasis on Greece on the question of Orthodoxy. Why is knowledge of all religions? Firstly, because modern world is a world where religions play a leading role, often not always positive, but also negative. Speech - logical fundamentalism - as you know, we have Islamic fundamentalism in our region - are forces that negatively determine developments in our region. It is reasonable for children to know the exact message of different religions and not to pervert the message of religions. It makes sense also to seek, under conditions of multiracial, multi-religious, multilingual school classrooms, an approach between these children, from wherever they come, and not a search for categorisation towards children. These and many others have been subject to public debate for many years and among theologians, as well as to the Church. It's not a conflict between the state and the Church. And within the Church, the views which are about the need to change the lesson of Religiouss have matured, in a direction - I repeat - knowledge of religions and not of confession or, even more, of categorical character. That is the view that exists. We're not dogmatic. We are discussing and we believe that we can develop positively - I repeat - for children and education. Generally speaking, the relations that we want to have with the Church are the relationships identified by the Constitution and laws, cooperation relations, relations that are designed to improve our country, to get our country out of the crisis, and there, of course, everyone is judged by its attitude. I would like to say that the recent, during the period of crisis, conduct of the Church with its developed charity is an important element, which helps in the direction I mentioned earlier, of cooperation in the interest of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th High School and the lyric ranks of Hallland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the third with number 15/3-10-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about foreign-language school books that are on payment to all public high schools. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Today's news, of course, deserves its rights, Minister, and I am referring to the lesson of Religiouss. That is why I am going to say a few words about the content of this course, which we consider to have matured now - it has been overripened, I would say - the need to change its character, as we believe has matured and the complete separation of the Church from the state, which is, over time, a historically unfulfilled demand of elementary urban modernisation, which has taken place in most of the other European countries. We believe that today's question also has its own topicality, a topicality which the people's families, if any, have children - and there are many of these families, are thousands - in all types of high school in our country, then they have to pay out of their pockets to get their children the school books for foreign-language courses. I mean, while they're given free to primary and high school, in high school students pay for these books. And we are talking about a lesson, Minister, which is compulsory, and its programme and the lesson itself. Of course, we too recognize and agree with the needs of the students - when we can discuss it, we have our own views - especially at that age, to learn foreign languages. However, this need cannot meet or drown, be undermined by the so-called reward, that is, "if you have money you will get the books, otherwise what to do, you will not learn". We think there is a great need, particularly today, with all the suffering that the people's family is suffering because of your own policy - which, of course, goes on from where the former have left it - particularly on this issue. The amount is not small. We want to know, so we ask you what you do, what measures you take so that these books on foreign language courses are given free of charge to all high school students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we will agree that the fact that books of foreign languages are not distributed free of charge in high school is a derogation from the principle of free education. You will tell me that the greatest derogation from the free education system is in the schools. Families, as well as all families, know that from a point of view and beyond, especially in the period of high school and in the preparation of children for higher education, is unfortunately the principle of free education. And families are being dismantled, today in circumstances, is the truth, of a great economic crisis, to support the right of children to education. This is, of course, not an alibi in any way and does not justify the fact that they are not given, that free books of foreign languages are not distributed to high school. But how did this happen? Because we inherited it. From the writing of the books of foreign languages that took place and which was subsidised from Community funds, high school books were excluded. We believe that in a subsequent action we will complete the writing and publication of foreign language teaching books and for high school. However, I would like to raise an issue that is crucial in the teaching of foreign languages. It is not only the books of high school classes which are financially burdening families, it is also the cycle of recognition, the certification of the level of foreignlanguage education, which is made with private economic criteria outside the public system, which, unfortunately, bears even higher costs to Greek families. That is why we have moved forward - and we will soon, in the next few months, bring to the House a bill on this - the establishment and extension of the programme of teaching foreign languages by establishing a state certificate of language, so that the students and their families are not paid to attest the level of their language. There is one question we have to answer. Why are foreign languages taught for so many years in public education forced to go to school in order to learn to speak foreign languages? The answer to this question, in my opinion, must be the basis for the reform of the teaching programmes for foreign languages. It's not just a matter of hours. It is also a matter of educational direction. And obviously a child who is now ending the public school system should know in a way that is most excellent in the use of languages. And when I say language, I mean Greek language and literature, I mean English and other possibilities as a priority. And it's mathematics, it's a language of science. This language, too, needs to be known to the child. And if you want that, the assumption of broadly defined language training and education for children is also the basis of our entire debate on the reform of secondary education. Finally, I would like to say that we are trying to ensure that when the child, the student and the student is finished, the compulsory education - nine years is today, we hope to extend the time of compulsory education, take steps in the near future, discuss this House on this issue - to have B2 level in the first foreign language they have learned and A2 in the second foreign language. The new curriculum programmes follow the scale of the Council of Europe, namely, A1, A2, B1, B2 and C1, C2. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I repeat that you are right in expressing your question and we are doing everything we can to improve this issue. One last thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u15	To close, Minister, because we have two bills today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u16	I'll be right over. Your topicality forced you to make a reference to Religious issues. I'll take it. I must say that the one you mentioned is the fixed position of the Left. And somehow the attitude of your party so far had me dissatisfied. Even the "RIZOPASTI" yesterday did not refer to certain issues of topicality. Look at it and you'll understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u18	I think, Minister, of the last thing you said, the Secretary of our Party replied with his position here from the Step of the House. I will return to my question, which focused on a very specific issue of the payment of foreign-language books. Of course, with your position, you have opened the matter. There's other sides. But for this, your answer does not satisfy us, above all, and certainly does not satisfy the people who are paying for it. You said you inherited it. We don't disagree. Only you go on with it, too. You mentioned the history of paying from the parents of these books. And you gave a wish that it will be dealt with in the coming years by changing books and everything you have said in relation to them. We think that the Ministry should be immediately re-examined - by a ministerial decision - with a ministerial circular - and you are making such a number of other issues, which are usually causing problems in schools - to grant these books free of charge to students and not to wait at any time and whether or not. Of course you've talked about the internships too. The courses cover unsatisfactory educational needs, usually for many reasons, but with the central responsibility of the Ministry of Education, they are not satisfied with the public education system. And, of course, it is another blow to public and free education. You also spoke about the centres for the certification of foreign languages, the State Certificate of Languages. We have already said this on the occasion of other legislative interventions. We believe that this State Certificate of Language Learning should be exclusively in our country and that there is no more. We want education merchants not to have a field - and they are not few and often grand - who make a lot of money from these certifications of foreign languages. We want the exclusiveity, that is, that we claim, of the State Certificate of Language. In any case, what we want to say to you - and we are telling you again - is that, of course, this issue - and I return to the original request - of foreign-language books is another aspect of the question of whether this public education is free of charge. This is one side, of course, and there are others. You have also talked about the children's movements, about the problems in special education and not yet solved - particularly with special educational staff - about the changes that have taken place in schools from kindergarten to high school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u19	Don't open it, Mr. Delis, because the Minister can't answer it anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u20	I say it is one problem - and I repeat - and we would expect - that we did not hear it - another response from the Minister. But there are so many Memorandum promises that you cannot meet this elementary demand either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u21	The Minister has the floor for his denology. Minister, don't get over time because, as I said, we have two bills then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Deli, we're basically in agreement. Of course, we are government and are judged. You, as opposition, do well and control. There must be - I repeat - publishing teaching books for high school. This cannot be replaced by a transaction of the State with trade. That's not happening. There must be a program, books, and we must give it to the children. This means that within the framework of the new programmes we will soon proceed. I repeat, the Greek State can't go to the merchants and tell you I'm paying you books about schools. I would also like to say to you that what I said - I assure you - is not a wish. We will soon be judged in practice, we will be taking initiatives. Finally, on the general issues you mentioned, I am pleased that you have recognised that special training is in place with the training programme. It is a question of the pace of the ADP. Soon, and from there, we will have a positive response to the tables, so that we can move forward so quickly to the recruitment of special educational staff, which is necessary for the completeness of the special treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u23	So we kind of covered the time because I had left you talking for seven minutes in your prototype. It will now be discussed the first under number 5/3-10-2016 topical question by Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on increasing the limit for the netting of debts of the insured of the OGA. The question will be answered by the Minister responsible, Mr Petropoulos. My colleague, Mr Excellency, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to Law 4144/2013, the pension for the beneficiaries of the OGA is granted provided that the total insurance contributions due are not more than EUR 4,000. This amount, the amount due, shall be netted or retained every month until its full repayment. Now, if the debts now exceed 4,000, the beneficiary is obliged to pay the full debt of more than 4,000 in order for the OGA to adopt a retirement decision. If the beneficiary fails to fulfil that obligation, the decision is not adopted, the amount of the debt shall be adjusted in accordance with the relevant insurance categories and, in addition, the beneficiary shall not be entitled to medical treatment. On the other hand, the limits for the relevant case for IKA are 15,000 and for the OSCE it is 20,000. It is clear that this is a case of unfair treatment of the persons insured under the legislation. I would like to point out, according to official data from the OGA, that the number of insured persons whose debts exceed 4,000 are fifty-eighty-five, two-five, of whom the fifty-six thousand eighty-eighty-one, that is, 97.7%, owes up to 12 000 euros. And you ask: is the Ministry prepared to give a solution to this question either by introducing a new limit for the beneficiaries of the OGA or within the EFCA by establishing a single limit, regardless of an insurance body? Secondly: Does it consider the Ministry to regain the right to medical treatment for those who have lost it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Inequality in farmers, indeed, existed and we are trying with our legislative interventions to eradicate them. That is why we have made the insurance reform which now gives farmers the same rights as other Greeks who are insured in the social security system. They are now receiving and receiving the national pension, from which they have been excluded all these years. I have to say from the outset, because it may cause a concern, not justified in the rural world, that even when they have not paid their contributions, medical and pharmaceutical care is covered with L.4368/2010. Therefore, this part of your question does not exist as to the reality that we have seen again, because with L.4368 they have health insurance, medical and medical care insurance. As far as the specific issue you raise is concerned, you need to see why this differentiation emerges, that is to say, that farmers have a limit of up to EUR 4,000, while the free traders, those insured in the OSCE have EUR 20,000. It is due to the calculation of the possibility to repay this debt over three years. The contribution of farmers to the fifth compulsory maximum pension category is about EUR 104. For the OAU, it's five times. It's 500 euros a month. Therefore, if you are making a simple multiplying of the five-fold ceiling for farmers, a ceiling of 20,000 is set for the free-professionals, because during this period it is possible to repay the amount due by the law to allow a pension to be paid, provided that, during that period, the amount due can be repaid. That's why it is. But you can be certain that we are nevertheless considering the possibility of farmers being able to join a system of debt regulation and debt repayment within the whole system that we are facing in respect of all insurance debts. It is a very big issue, which we are approaching in a scientific way, in a way that will facilitate social security as well. We will do that, taking into account the specificities which apply and which must apply to farmers, as we did in the way in which their insurance contributions are calculated at EUR 410 and not at EUR 586 as a basic price for the other insured persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u27	My colleague, Mr Excellency, has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u28	Minister, I understand the reasoning and I think that there is an intention to tackle this serious problem, because we are talking about a social class, which is one of the weakest economics, and when today it is difficult to pay about EUR 1 000 for insurance contributions annually, they will find it much more difficult to pay a much longer one-off sum in the next period. We believe that, in the context of the creation of the ECA, this will be dealt with in some proportionately uniform way and obviously the issue of medical care from what I have understood, is included in the question of uninsured people who are millions of uninsured in our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for the brief time. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u30	And I will briefly say that we are seeing, on an objective basis, the possibility for the insured to pay debts, and in that context we shall see the case of farmers, with the particular nature of agricultural production being volatile, to be against unforeseeable circumstances, often exposed, like livestock production. We must take all this into account and it is within the criteria that we will have for these farmers' debts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. We've covered Mr. Philly's time. We move to the fifth, with number 14/3-10-2016, a timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the continuation of the workers' insurance during the service. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. It is well known that thousands of workers are forced to work because of the non-payment of their employees by the employer. They have, of course, recently been faced with an unprecedented violation of protection and any rights, based on the insurance and labour legislation of IKA. The services of the IKA refuse to insure workers and to pay tribute to the employer for over one month's work, which, as we know, you have done, Minister, five months since the beginning of the employment contract, which is of course longer. In addition, in many cases, IKA services refuse to charge fees for this month's period corresponding to heavy and unhealthy occupations even though the workers are subject to this category of insurance until the start of the employment subsistence and therefore continue to fall within the same category during that period. The refusal and practice of the IKA services is completely arbitrary and illegal - as is your decision, Minister, to make a month, five - directly violates the provisions of Articles 2(2) and 8(2) of the obligor Law 1846/1951, as amended and valid. Since the time of my prototype is not enough, you ask: What measures will you take to stop this arbitrary illegal practice of IKA services, but also your decision for the five-month period, so that the worker can continue to be insured uninterruptedly throughout the period of employment, without any limitations, conditions and conditions? Also, what measures do you intend to take in order to remove any consequences of this illegal practice and to protect workers so as to paste all the trademarks that have been entitled for the entire period of work? You know very well that the consequences - you have been very disturbed by workers - are tragic for many of them. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. You have made a necessary completion, Mr Katsotis, which at least partially restores the truth, that, with my approval of the Legal Council of the State, the adjunct, which is covered in insurance, is now five months and not one month, which was valid until 3 October, until the acceptance of the opinion. This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Industry, Commerce, Crafts and Services, chaired by Mr Rothley (Netherlands — Various Interests). For thirty-two years, since 1984, which entered into force, only one month had been covered. We come in and we do five times the time. So, where do we get him? If you think a little about the time we took from 1984 to now, there has been a period when this increase could be achieved, I mean the case of 1990, which also took part in the Communist Party, the coalition then, in the governance of the country. He didn't. He didn't do it because it's hard. And it is a difficult matter, because the attachment of work also hides issues, which at one time, instead of benefiting workers and social security, may also damage them. Because if you transfer the employer's responsibilities to social security and relieve him of the burden he has to bear, from the contributions he has to pay for the insurance of employees, then you are wrong. That is why this period cannot be so extensive in order to create such a posture, that is to say, to show the way to employers and businesses to resort to a long-term commitment process, so that they can be exempted from contributions. It would be a mistake to do that. And the five times, which we have done, will enable too many workers - they have the opportunity to hear from this Step - to meet in five months of insurance, which they lack, to receive a pension. Indeed, they are from many businesses, which, because the companies have closed down, have been preoccupied. Consider what positive results this initiative has, our own regulatory initiative, to accept the extension to five times the year, which was envisaged for the adherence. It is a positive, very positive, and a beneficial measure for workers, especially those who have been in a state of work for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u35	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, Minister, I think you are insisting on an illegal and arbitrary proposal from you, even on your initiative, for the five-month period, even though you have in your hands the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor, the Independent Authority, which tells you that you have to comply with the laws, the decisions that have been made so far. I will testify to the Minutes and the conclusion, because you cannot on the one hand say that we respect the independent authorities and, on the other, write your old shoes a conclusion, which is in favour of the workers, and it solves issues that you want to do away with in practice. Perhaps in 1984 such a decision was made. Maybe then problems weren't much with unpaid work. But during the time of the crisis, things were done differently. Too many employers don't pay. Exploited and the crisis too many - not that they are weak - do not pay workers. And many, of course, because of the crisis, indeed, were in great weakness. Judicial decision cannot be a condition for you to recognize insurance contributions to workers. At least, the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor, the Independent Authority, tells you that you need to comply with the entire legislative framework and return to the recognition of the insurance for as long as the attachment lasts. He has the right to resort to justice and to abusive pretence. However, you are not asking the employer to bring a decision of abusive work. You ask the worker to bring you a decision, putting him in a cost-effective and time-consuming process - which, of course, has no money. He must be unpaid already to the courts to bring you a court ruling. But what's that? Is it possible to put workers in such a process? We once again call on you to see the size of this problem, which is facing too many workers and to stop this arbitrary and illegality, which you continue with with this decision for the five-month period. And why five months and not twelve months? Why not all of the work-supply period? There are terms and conditions here that enable the employer to make a misuse of a pretext. But you go the other way. We therefore call on you here to apply the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor, which has been sent to you and to the IKA, and to solve the problems in favour of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u37	Here you go, Mr. Petersburg.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. You also admitted that many employers are making use of the crisis so that they do not pay. Isn't that a reason to be careful not to transfer the burden to social security by exempting employers from their obligation to pay contributions? If we expand, in the eyes of the courgette game, more and more years - why not ten months, why not two years, why not three years? - So where's that gonna go? As things have a reasonable and legal basis, I must inform you that the pretext also has limits to a legal area provided for by Articles 657 and 658, which speak of the unwitting inability of the worker to provide his work. On that basis the opinion was based on which he said that, up to a month, this unscrupulous impossibility for the worker to be employed is justified. It's not logical there's no more impotent weakness. We appealed - and this shows the interest of this government - in Article 656 of the Civil Code, which was not applied and used, to say that this time can be extended. It's not as simple as that, Mr. Katatotis, to take it as we want to. This five-fold amount of time we gave to cover the employment commitment could say that it is arbitrary and that it should be two months or nothing more than a month. That's because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u39	But it's called the conclusion of the Citizen's Counselor, who's an independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u40	I'll tell you about the finding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u41	What are you going to tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u42	All the final judgments of the courts are applicable and must be applied and that is our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u43	Yeah, but you tell people to go to court.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u44	One diagnoses exactly the range of the time of the insurance cover. So, how else can it be done? Is someone going to say it just? Should not such a public interest be certified in any way through social security? Should it not have a guarantee of correctness, control and proper valuation of time? Who's gonna tell us? That can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u45	But the job attachment is always notified to the Ministry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Catasta...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr Katsotis, now, okay, the Minister listened carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u48	But he can't say such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u49	Common sense, I think, leads to this conclusion that I am saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u50	To what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u51	That there's no one who says anything about social security. It's what's established. That is why there is the capitalisation of insurance contributions. It is an administrative act to pay a pension. It's an administrative act. It is not 'I told you this, give me the pension'. Therefore, somehow, it must, with certainty, be certified. We have a public accountant. We have a series of procedures for controlling public money management, such as social security money. It must therefore be certified within frameworks which indeed have the guarantees of control and correctness. So when we have a final judicial decision, it will be respected. It won't be five months alone. If the court says it's 12 or 15 months, it'll be ten five months. It'll be as much as the court says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u52	Another concession to the employer is made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u53	All right, Mr. Katatotis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u54	Minister, let's close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u55	If, after thirty-two years, we do five times a year of insurance cover, you consider it a concession, I can't do anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u56	That's what you're doing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u57	Mrs. Chrysovelonis, even if she's an asthma, she's here, so we're going in the normal order to the next circle, which is two questions. The third will then be discussed under number 8/3-10-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Magnesia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Eliopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks - as I said, will answer Mr. Chrysovelonis - regarding the immediate need for the operation of the airport of Nea Anchialos and the conduct of regular international flights on a permanent basis. Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you come from a county and a region which in recent years has been completely abandoned. There is not a single project that can give Magnesia and Thessaly a breath. Infrastructural projects do not exist. They've been stopping for too many years. There's a disdain for a district and a county, which has everything. They can also produce. They had tourism and industries and crafts, everything. There is an airport, that of New Anchialos, which is ready to serve as many flights as required and required. This airport can potentially serve more than a million fellow citizens from the Region of Thessaly, from Fthiotida, from Pieria, even from Evia. This airport of Central Greece is of key importance for the region and could give a lot to tourism, and not only. This is an area that combines everything. You know that very well. For example, especially in Pelion, the ski center from an excellent beach is just 10 minutes away. This cannot be found anywhere else, neither in Greece nor worldwide, of course. We have Meteora. We have Olympus. We have lakes. We have rivers. There can be conference tourism. There can be religious tourism in Meteora. In general, Thessaly and the wider area of Central Greece can develop tourists and we let an airport literally rot, without doing anything. You have committed yourself - and that is why I wanted you to reply to me today, because you have committed yourself with your statements - that the problem will be solved. The airport will be on new routes - of course you said that before summer - international flights that will be able to serve the purposes I have described above, such as cargo and other transport. I would like a first answer from you and I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mrs Chrysovelonis, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Greek Parliament, fifty-four students and students and five teachers from the 3rd Kifisia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Chryssovelloni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Mr Papoutsis. It is true that you live, we live, and those in Magnesia and in general in Thessaly agree that we are in a unique area. However, I shall reply to the question you have put to me on behalf of your responsibilities because you have addressed it to the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the State Airport of New Anchialu is operating properly. I say this, Mr Papoutsis, because in the wording of your question you use words such as'refunction', 'is excluded', 'exploited', which will allow me to say that they disorientate public opinion. And of course I am not talking about those who live in Magnesia, I am referring more generally to the Greek citizens. So all the necessary infrastructure, because I say again that you are addressing the question to the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, which is needed for the operation of this airport, are there. And to become more specific according to current and reported in the Greek Aeronautical Information Manual, the airport of Nea Anchialos has two thousand nine hundred ninety-five meters long, as well as the planned photo-labelling for the service of jet flights, a passenger area of five thousand square meters, two departure gates, two luggage search portals, eight luggage control places, a duty-free shop, car rental, and parking for buses and cars. These operational data, which I have read to you, as you understand it, are sufficient that the New Anchialu Airport accepts flights from and to all European destinations with the usual types of aircraft, which are used to travel to similar flights. In addition, Nea Anchialos Airport is an institutionalised point of entry and exit of the country, through which international flights are available and carried out. Further projects have been carried out to upgrade the installations, which are concisely including - the reconstructing - the construction of a new aircraft parking floor, five railroad extensions, the construction of a new airport building at three levels of 8.924,14 sq.m., as well as the construction of an environment, and the construction of a fire station, 2.9 sq.m., in order to be able to connect a fire station to the existing road network and the public interest networks of the airport, as well as maintenance and insurance procedures. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I will take my time off dentistry, Mr President. What I mentioned to you, which also fall within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, makes, as you can see, this airport fully operational and suitable for the use it is intended for. So from the moment the necessary infrastructure exists, the decision by air carriers or tourist operators to fly to and from this destination, you should understand that it is now up to them and not the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. And, of course, the decision is made following an assessment of the quality and cost of the tourist product, as well as the international demand for a destination, but also very strictly private economic criteria and the viability of each route. As far as our actions are concerned, despite the fact that they do not fall within the competence of the Ministry which I represent, I would like to tell you that we contribute and support in every way, as far as we can go beyond the responsibility of the Ministry for any advertising of the airport and the region. And I would like to tell you that in the office of Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr Kountoura, with my presence and the presence of representatives of the Union of Hoteliers, Municipalities and Regions, because this airport does not only benefit the Municipality of Volos or the Magnesia Prefecture or the Region of Thessaly, two meetings have been held to promote the wider region, because in order to work the airport there needs to be advertising in the region. However, I should also like to point out here that whatever effort is being made and which I myself will personally support from Magnesia, this requires that collective action be taken. What do I mean? Of all the operators who benefit from the operation of the airport - and I am referring to the regions, the municipalities and the associations of hotel operators - there must be a collective effort, and that is what I will tell you is on a very good path. In conclusion, I am referring to a collective effort, Mr Plenipotentiary, because I imagine that you will agree that experience from cases of high growth in tourist traffic from abroad at state airports operating in our country has shown that air carriers, like tourist agents, take into account, to determine the traffic that exists at an airport, the product in itself. However, the traffic data of the Civil Aviation Service shows that for 2015 the number of arrivals reached 12,272, the number of departures to 12,607 and the transit flights to 9,995. During the summer peak months of 2016, seven air carriers were attempted with one flight each on a weekly basis to and from European destinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, please complete. That is not what you are doing under the Rules of Procedure. With my tolerance, it happens, but not use twice as much time. Finish right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u62	I won't talk at all in my dentistry. These air carriers are ‘FLYNIKI’, ‘GERMANIA’, ‘TRANSAVIA’, ‘SMALL PLANET’, ‘AUSTRIAN AIRLINES’ and ‘TRANSAVIA FRANCE’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u64	I would like to refer to the principle of your reply, as to which infrastructure the airport has. Clearly we agree - and I have said so in my prototype - that he has the infrastructure to serve all these companies and the world he wants to move. From that point on, however, it is a political will to devalue this airport, because there is a depreciation of this airport. There have been no moves to stimulate it, and obviously, because this airport is under assessment, as we read, it will also enter the new body you have created, which continues selling everything to be sold out. Because if it were a profitable airport, it would be difficult. You deceive it in order to sell it to the second batch of airports. Already we read that at Meteora they are making a move to build an airport there and get more repudiated by the New Anchialos. Because the people in Meteora saw that only if there is an airport near or at least in a wider area can the tourist product be developed. The tourist product is agreed that it exists and exists at a very good level. But, to stimulate it, people should come. That is inversely proportional to what you say. The product exists, just the world can't go. The foreigner cannot come and must go to Athens or Thessaloniki to come to Thessaly. But the infrastructure is there. So you have to do something to attract people. Because, I'm telling you, there's all there and they're ready to welcome the tourists. Hoteliers say that you need to create there and place for the development of an airport, exhibition area, demonstration and struggles, modelling and air-modelling, sky- diving, cultural and sport events etc., which are your responsibility to create. You should do something like a state, in conjunction with the operators, as you said, to attract airlines. I read in the middle that you made an appointment when you took over, with Mr. Spirtzi and Mrs. Koudoura. In fact, Mr Spirtz had told you in March that the airport required quick and immediate solutions. It has been nine months since then and it has not been a solution. If these are the quick solutions that your government is pushing, I can't imagine what the delay would be. Anyway, since you come from the county and more generally from the region, it would be nice to look at it, promote it and not just stay at your Ministry of Infrastructure, because anyway, as we said, the infrastructure exists. You should stimulate it, in order to stimulate tourism and, more generally, the economy of the region, which is snatching all areas, both primary and secondary, and tourism. Soon Thessaly - you see it and you live it - will produce nothing. It is downgraded and tourism and the economy will erase, as it fades throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u65	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u66	I'll be done. Take it up and do something because you're destroying the entire area and SYRIZA and you're running it together. You're not doing anything at all. You haven't done anything at all this time you're government. And if you want, because you said you wouldn't answer, you can answer me in a minute what you've done for the wider area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u67	Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Let me remind you that we are answering timely questions and I am coming here to reply to you as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and therefore, by reason of competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u69	What have you done at the Ministry? I ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u70	I am very pleased that we have agreed that there is no record of depreciation and abandonment of airports, because from what you have said there we end up with. I am pleased that you have agreed that Nea Anchialos Airport in terms of infrastructure, which is the responsibility of our Ministry alone, is in excellent condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u71	But there's no man in the airport!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u72	I didn't interrupt you. I would like to assure you that there is no method of depreciating regional airports, as you mentioned before, from the government's side. There is a battle - and this has been achieved - that regional airports remain under public management and continue to operate for the benefit of each region. In fact, because today the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr. Spirtzi, is being introduced to plenary, has been repeatedly called by the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Spirtzi, who has received congratulations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u73	All right, let these be answered by Mr. Spirtzis. They will be put in the ordinary bill shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, with all due respect, when it is said that we intend to sell them out...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u75	But I do have two bills. I'm not going to ask the timely question for 15 minutes. The intra-Magnesian war is to be solved outside of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u76	You take my time, but now. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u77	You're welcome, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u78	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u79	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u80	However, since I hear that there is a feasibility and we are being dismantled and sold out at regional airports, I do not accept that because the government's efforts are moving in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u81	Fourteen airports sold out. What are you not accepting? What opposite direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u82	To close, let me tell you this: The airport to have flights must be advertised at the airport and the area, and this is the result of a collective effort by the involved operators and not of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u83	We shall now proceed to the last question which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Therefore, the first question under number 17/3-10-2016 will be discussed for the second time by the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the price of real estate belonging to the administrative limits of the Municipality of Troisinia - Methana. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the reason why we are here today - and I have asked you this timely question following on from another question on the same subject - is that we can restore an injustice which exists a portion of the inhabitants of the Municipality of Poros, as well as the entire inhabitants of the Municipality of Troizinia - Methana. The injustice they suffer is in relation to the calculation of the single special fine for arbitrary infringements or the value of the infringements, where it has not been determined by the system of values of the Ministry of Finance. As you know, Law No 4178, in particular Article 22 of the Act, lays down a zone value taken into account in calculating the single specific fine or the value of the infringements in cases where it has not been established by the system of objective values of the Ministry of Finance. This provision distinguishes in two categories the real estate. One has to do with mainland Greece, which joins both Evia and Crete, because these two islands have a wide geographical range, and the other with island Greece. This law does not, however, specify, Minister, cases of municipalities that are also part of mainland Greece and also of islands. Such a case is the Municipality of Poros - the Municipality of Poros has a piece that is in mainland Greece - and the whole of the Municipality of Troizinia - Methana, which belongs to mainland Greece. Unfortunately, however, they belong to the Regional Unity of Attica. This has therefore created a huge problem because, as you know, the price of the zone is for mainland Greece at EUR 550, while for the island it is at EUR 900. The services of the Ministry of Interior have made it clear that there is no discussion about the Municipality of Troisinia - Methana - we arrive at this point. The Municipality of Troizinia - Methana belongs to mainland Greece and this part of the Municipality of Poros. The services at the Ministry of the Environment have also made it clear that the landfill has nothing to do with the administrative limits. But the SYPOTHA, which does not take into account any of these two suggestions and continues to account for this high price and bring them up to this high order. I would therefore like this injustice to be corrected as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u85	Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. I share your reasonable comment on the question. However, we must point out - and I will be a lacquer - that the FYROM must comply with the law. For yourself, therefore, you have described very thoroughly what Article 22 says about the price of the zone. So an instrument, which is mandated to follow a course, cannot outlaw it. There is L.4178/2013 - you too and I admit it - but also the subsequent amendment. And I wonder why the amendment to Article 25(16) of the FYROM has given the FYROM that competence, which is an economic competence. However, as long as he has given it and instructs him on how he will do so, the FYROM rightly answers us - and he has answered you in the written question you have asked - that this needs to be regulated. A body like the FYROM cannot break the law, despite the fact that I too admit that such cases obviously the legislator did not anticipate them. It is therefore another thing to discuss here in the Chamber about a possible one - and we are currently in consultation on Law 4178, its amendment and its evolution - legislative amendment, which will solve the problem and another thing to put this duty to the UNHCR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u87	Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, we are in 2016 and in fact, without any dissident of political and opposition, and without satisfying part of my election 'cladiness' - within or outside of introductory words - by the citizens of Poros and Troys, this is where we are dealing with a clear case. It is not possible in 2016 in a European country to have such analgesia from its services. It is not in 2016 in a country where we are looking for growth in binoculars, and when we have imposed such a high tax on all residents, when we face huge problems for all citizens, we cannot correct the self-evident and divide the deaf. Here I would like to present for the record a piece of shit in the area, where it is very simple, and we are talking about land areas, which have nothing to do with islands. I would also like to submit to the minutes by the Ministry of Interior a document from the Secretariat-General of the Decentralised Administration which says that in no case does it deny the geophysical character of the Municipality any view and that, as long as it has these land borders, the municipality cannot be considered an island. I also present a document from the Ministry of the Environment, from the Metropolitan Urban and Peri-policy Planning Department, which says so. And the SYPOTIA comes and says "Okay, yes, I recognize that the Municipality of Troizinia - Methana is not an island municipality, but I can do nothing". And that can also be true in other areas, not only in the region of Troisins and the Methanes. And these residents will enter the 850 euro zone price, and they would normally have to be 550 euros. I'm filing these documents from the U.S.S.S.S.S.A. in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And of course, that is why I asked the timely question, to correct it at least in the bill that comes. But you know what? The State must have immediate reflexes. Justice and flexicurity require people. And it's obvious that we can't get into red tape. This does not honor anyone, nor we who have been in the past in power, nor you. And in these things at least I think there should be a common place for us to start together and modernise our country. It is very simple, Minister, and I think that we should give a solution as quickly as possible to a problem and to a fair request, to the injustice suffered by the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u89	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u90	I am pleased that we have seen that, firstly, there is an injustice and that, secondly, this injustice needs legislation and that it is not a bureaucratic obsession of the UFO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u91	Do it now, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u92	It is obvious that we have a law in front of us - immediately this law will be implemented - which solves many injustices. And to take you one step below, to tell you this: You spoke about flexibility. I'm one of the people I'm in favour of flexibility. In a state, however, which had too much corruption and complexity for decades, you know very well that the word "flexibility" has been discredited and wronged and resulted in case. So these arrangements were made by many Ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance, so that the public administration could be subjected to an objective, otherwise it was the remit of a client state. You remember them and we remember them. Shall we take a step further? I'm asking for honesty. I personally disagree with objective values. I strongly disagree. And tell you why? In Santorini, which is an island, in Caldera, perhaps the most expensive point at the moment in Greece, there are two categories of owners: those who had built and have hotels with prices of even a few thousand euros a day and those who have never built or will never build, because it is now forbidden to build in Caldera. So these two categories of owners with the current objective values pay exactly the same HUNPIA, the same taxes. It's irrational. So as far as the concept of 'objective value' is concerned, and today if you want to know very well - I was in the free profession - that both the banking system and the insurance system have ways to find commercial value with absolute accuracy for each property separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u93	Let's change it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u94	Please let me finish. If, at the moment, we want to have a honest dialogue on how to cure such injustices that in Santorini also exist in Poros, they exist, and everywhere there are, because it is not on an island itself to be on the beach with hotels or to be on the pedestrians who do not go either by climbing today, and to pay the same objective value. We all understand that, but they want legislation. That is what I think we need to agree on. It's not about bureaucratic obsession. It's a matter of legislation. Let's sit down - I'm glad you say it - and we'll do it right now, if you want. From that point on, if we abolish the system of objective values that you know is far beyond me and my Ministry. It is a general debate that will completely change the structure. We talked about it in the new law we're studying. I have even proposed it. I said if we could get out of this system of objective values that creates injustices. And we have all admitted that this is very difficult today. It is very difficult as the public administration operates. So I hope that in future such reforms will make them and I hope that you will also be present in these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u95	Now let us "get out of the objective values" because Mr Alexiadis listens to it and chantes, Minister! Understand? I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Economic and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health and Finance and the Deputy Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism have today tabled a draft law: ‘Social and solidarity economy and development of its institutions and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts Information and Implementing Provisions". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. As no amendment has been tabled, the Rules of Procedure will be strictly respected. They therefore have the right to speak, if they so wish, two colleagues as contributors, from the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, and, if you like, it is not compulsory, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Vardalis, for five minutes each. The Minister responsible will answer for five minutes, Mr Alexiadis. That means we'll get it over with quickly. I am informing the Secretariats of the parliamentary groups, who may be following, to inform ministers and rapporteurs so that at 11: 30 we can start, since we have the opportunity to win an hour. We said the main bill would start 12: 00 - 12: 30. That's how we'll finish earlier tonight. To be present no later than 11:30' at the latest for the rapporteurs, Parliamentary Representatives and Ministers. Mr. Panayotus, if you wish, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. We are being called upon today to ratify an agreement that is supposed to be an obligation for our country. In fact, however, the attempt of international financial centres to control the entire global range of financial transactions is undercover. 'Allithium' - within introductorys - of this imposition, the - within several introductory words - 'transparency', the - within many introductory words - 'a prevention of tax evasion' and - within many introductory words -'restriction of money laundering', which does not apply, as has been shown in a recently adopted bill, concerning the automatic pan-European exchange of banking data. In almost all the major European countries except Greece, who want to tax or launder, can do so legally with the various exceptions such as San Marino, the Faeroe Islands and many other duty-free paradises within the European Union. With the negligence of the Central Bank, which began a few years ago, with the passage of all banks under foreign control and the transfer of the national currency, the bank transactions of Greek citizens were fully monitored. Here to make a little comment on Mr. Gika Hardouvelis, who was the one who had brought this sanction in 2014. He, as Minister, made his very great fortune, salivating the small piece, in order to be legal and not to have any problem at all. It is apparent from the Report on the Effects of Arrangements, which is embedded in the draft law, on page 108, that the real reason why this is happening is due to the United States of America's demand to reliably monitor transactions at global level. The European Union does not have an institutionalised automatic exchange of information for residents of the other Member States, while the United States, which urges other countries to adopt it, does not apply it because they have not signed it, so simply. According to a missionary statement of “ROTSILD” published in Sunday “DIMOCRATIA” of 2 October 2016, on page 45, it states: “The United States is becoming the world’s largest tax haven, by transferring funds to the United States from abroad and to states that the control regime is even more relaxed, such as Nevada, Wyoming, and South Dakota.” Similarly, the other paradise known as heaven has been excluded from this agreement, Switzerland, which undertakes to apply the agreement only to the transactions it considers critical. The real reason, therefore, for participation in the Agreement is the need for Member States of the European Union to participate in the United States Foreig Account Tax Compliance Act, i.e. the Tax Conformity Act, in the framework of bilateral agreements concluded by the United States, by force on countries other than themselves to comply. Equally important and characteristic is that among those countries that have not yet signed the agreement, while they are committed to doing so, they are Panama, a well-known tax haven that has recently been revealed with Panama papers, Turkey, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, namely one of the countries that is in the bulwark of international trade and are all the allies of the United States of America. It is therefore clear that this system is also an attempt to manipulate the economy by the United States against the European Union. The retreat of the European Union and the entrepreneurial policy pursued by its leaders is also conducive to the ignorance and no international importance of Greece in this war. Therefore, for tax reasons, from 1-1-2016, the Ministry of Finance will disclose information on accounts to the respective competent authority that has ratified the agreement by means of an automatic exchange as stated in Article 2, both for the accounts and for the custody accounts. This concerns all natural and legal persons, commercial companies, cooperatives, foundations, etc., with a very interesting exception, by guaranteeing the definition of ‘non-registration of a financial institution’, i.e. an entity that is not obliged to provide information on the movements of its capital. It excludes a particular category of transactions, the most suspicious of all transactions, those of all kinds and of non-governmental organisations. Therefore, the most important organisation described as being exempt from automatic exchange of information is the well-known and non-exclusive NGOs, which not only manage hundreds of millions of euros in ten countries, but are not subject to any income tax and can legally tax. If the purpose of the money stream monitoring system was to discover the source of income in order to justify it, then this should apply especially to non-governmental organisations, which it excludes. We have no reservation whatsoever to clarify the dark points of the agreement signed in 2014, which was signed by the Industries of Greece with a government in New Democracy and which is now being ratified by Greece and by the Government of SYRIZA. Signatures imposed by the partners on these illegitimate legal texts have no sign of compulsoryity in a free state. We therefore vote without reservation against the agreement, stating that both it and others that have been signed and the others that will be signed by the Greek governments in name will be revoked when our country becomes free and independent of national governance at its wheel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u98	The second rival from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. All the parties who are voting today for the Convention between the European Council and the OECD argue that it will contribute to limiting tax evasion and that it will benefit the people, the workers and the people. In the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, this is not the case. And that's because whatever part of the tax evasion, and if it gets caught, that money is in no way going to the people. They will be given to business groups to invest supposedly to bring about long-lived growth. Secondly, the picture you described in the Committee's debate of the external tax evasion of tax havens is half. Beyond the billions of euro illegal tax evasion you add many billions of legitimate tax exemptions, i.e. tax on subsidies from European and national development laws, and the last one brought in and voted for by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in the House. That is why you are all asking for a further reduction in corporate taxation, giving tax exemptions, privileges, aid to finance investment by business groups, exemption from their social welfare and insurance obligations. However, under conditions of liberalisation of the movement of capital, multiple laws on the legal evasion of businesses and special tax regimes, these tax burdens, which are not paid by business groups, are charged to workers' backs. It is no coincidence, moreover, that in the European Union of 28 Member States the corporate profits tax represents 2.5% of GDP from 40% of total taxation. You are taxing the people who are in danger of losing their home even by increasing taxes, which they cannot pay for. And if that is the case, as the Communist Party of Greece supports, then why the G20, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Union, supports such agreements? What are they useful to? In our view, the protracted and coordinated capitalist crisis brings to the surface the need to depreciate and destroy some of the surplus capital, beyond the destruction of the main productive force that workers are. In other words, capitalists in their competition require justice. What do they say in simple words? It cannot be said that those who have their capital in tax havens and offshore get out of this crisis and pay the businessmen who follow the legal path. Of course, their hypocrisy goes beyond them, since both tax havens and offshore are births and nourishments of the system itself, the capitalist system and the need for capitalists to keep their capital away from the control of the authorities and the irritating taxation, of course, by multiplying their profits. You see, dirty money loves it. And money in this case is not a little bit. At least EUR 14.3 trillions estimate that they are fleeing tax havens. More than 14.3 trillion euros, which is 9.2 billion euros, are in tax havens within the European Union, such as Luxembourg, Andorra, Malta. Do information need to be exploited to catch the tax-guns? Sure, yeah. But in any case, the anti-Flemish, anti-Flemish policy pursued over the years will continue. No delusion should have the popular layers of that with the extra possible tax revenues, even a little less of their suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion, you are mocking us with crowns to combat tax evasion, when the European Union's unviolent principle is free movement of capital, leaving offshore undisturbed, tax havens, among them Member States - the European Union, as you say, to be cooperative. Why don't you abolish tax havens? To this question, when will you answer? Because, in our view, the supreme law of every capitalist state and every civil government is to protect capitalist property and capital profits through its legislation. In particular at this time, after Brexit, the story of fair growth, a fair European Union, without tax havens is very worn. The only "just" is a ruthless competition between capitalists for the redistribution of wealth, a competition, a redistribution, at the expense of all the people. Therefore, this multilateral agreement is the result of competitive interests and not the desire to clear up and concerns an infinite part of the business tax evasion. You're trying to hide the master, the great scandal, in our opinion. What's that? That either the taxpayer or the tax-free wealth is sweat stolen from the only producers, workers, who, in our view, must take this wealth back into their hands. They are the people's sacrifices without the end of profit financing. That is, what it wins, in simple words, capital is what the worker loses. The working people must end up with the mockery of fair growth, a fair burden-sharing of capitalism. People's prosperity is, in our view, only possible with the people in power, the owner of their wealth, free from the sovereignty of monopolies and their associations. For all these reasons, we are voting against this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. The Minister responsible has the floor, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because I understand Parliament's needs, although we are debating a very serious sanction today, which will help very much the control services and the hunting of tax evasion and smuggling. Of course, this is where we heard the amazing wording - which we will see to be distributed - that 'and chase tax evasion and increase the revenue from tax evasion, what benefit will the world have? They will go to the debt!' There are such opinions. We're talking about them and we're talking about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u102	And in the chapter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u103	And in the chapter. So, not chasing the tax evasion, not chasing the smuggling, because until socialism comes, these things have to be left unavoidable. In any case, as far as the issues of today's bill are concerned, because in the Committee on Economic Affairs the views of the other parties (which are not able to speak today) have been formulated, I think there is a broad consensus on something that goes unequivocally. What's that? Act No.4378/2016, adopted in April 2016, voted to strengthen cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the field of automatic exchange of information. That is to say, we incorporated the European directive into Greek law, and so we have this possibility, to have better procedures on automatic exchange of information. As far as this agreed multilateral agreement is concerned, we are further expanding the automatic exchange of information, given that eighty-four jurisdictions (as mentioned therein) have signed the multilateral agreement on the exchange of information and is therefore an additional tool in action against tax fraud, tax evasion and smuggling. Here I would like to highlight a few typical examples from page 12, which mentions all jurisdictions or states, such as Andorra, Anguilla, the Cayman Islands, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Switzerland, the Faeroe Islands, with order number 28. Why do I insist on the Faroe Islands? For we have heard a moment ago - although the honourable Member who has made it clear - that 'what are you doing for the operations and the funds that are in the Faroe Islands?' Mercy! On pages 12, 13, 14 there is a list of eighty-four countries and jurisdictions - because they are not exactly all countries - with which it is clear that we will now have automatic capacity - not bureaucratic, i.e. on request - to exchange information, precisely in order to do our work better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u104	But Panama is not, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u105	It's a series of other countries. We must, however, understand that as long as there is one specific international law, the Greek Parliament cannot vote on provisions that will impose tax law in another country. Each country has our own procedures and we are responsible for this. So by ratifying this agreement for taxpayers, natural persons, entities, i.e. businesses, trust, trust, etc. and institutions holding income, for example interest and dividends or property abroad, will take place by September 2017, the first automatic sending of information from the country of origin of the income or assets in the country of tax residence. This in itself is an important tool. Because you understand that combined with the fight we are doing for voluntary disclosure of funds and the attempt to cross-cross cross-crossing will help tax services very much. This automatic exchange of information will take place in the light of the protection of personal data and the safeguarding of the confidentiality of information. And as objections were raised in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would like to say that there is full cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Personal Data Protection Authority. Secondly, our country has been successfully and adequately assessed by the OECD, on the confidentiality of information and on the existence of adequate structures and infrastructure in the context of the ratified agreement. We could not, after all, have entered these agreements if the OECD assessment had not been prior to them. In closing for the bill, I say that the incorporation into the Greek legislation of this global standard of automatic exchange of information, as posted by the OECD, strengthens cross-border cooperation in the context of tackling international tax evasion and avoidance, improves tax compliance and transparency in the international tax system, contributes to increasing tax revenue, with a direct consequence the possibility of a social policy, helping to find the taxable material where it is located and, of course, facilitates the work of the Greek audit services. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already been informed that the Ministry of Finance, in full cooperation with the political leadership, is not a case of Tsakalotou, Alexiadis, Pitsilis, is a collective effort launched by the ordinary officials and reaches the whole political leadership - trying and having tangible results. What the people have imposed on us with their vote and the Constitution with the oath we have given, we are trying to keep it to the fullest possible extent. I shall submit to the Greek Parliament, so that there are no different rumours and philosophies, and that is why. Because the fight against tax evasion, smuggling and corruption has concrete and measurable results. I shall therefore submit the provisional figures of September, which show that for September we are far above the target. For September, while the target was 4.7 billion, the September receipts are 5.512 billion. So we're far beyond target. And at the nine-month level, since the 35.9 billion targeted, we are 1.4 billion above the target, 37.29 billion. At the same time, we are about 300 million above the refund target, precisely because we do not follow the tactics of keeping refunds low, to see a lot of revenue. And because we are also going to hear grievances about public debts and how they grow, I will tell you about the Practical and Relevant Table for 2016, the year that they speak of launching more than 1 billion every month of late and various other philosophies. I'll only tell you three numbers so I don't get tired. In the eight months of 2016, the due date was 5.1 billion, in 2014, in spite of the capital controls, which helped to pay the dues for good reasons, it was 6.3 billion. We're at the same level as we were in 2013. We don't describe our own success story, we don't triumph. We understand what the people have, and we want to do everything possible to move forward in the next phase, namely to reduce tax burdens, to reduce tax rates, to a fair distribution of tax burdens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u106	But close it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u107	I'm closing, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u108	Of course, I just want to point out that in everything you have said there is a representative, but it is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, why isn't she here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Loverdos, the process is clear about this sanction. Only the two vice versa speaks of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u111	But Parliamentary Representatives too can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u112	No, no. They're the two adversaries and the Minister. What you say did so by way of derogation, when there was an amendment. There's no today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u113	Yeah, but this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u114	Look, we have the main bill. I'm not opening such a fabric right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u115	But that is when the agreement is made for the contract. When we get out of the contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u116	That is why I told the Minister, Mr Alexiades, that there is a contradiction for all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u117	Otherwise it makes no sense to agree to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u118	We decided something in the Conference of Presidents. The main bill is next. I do not care how many you were in the Chamber, but when I started the procedure, I do not care how many you were in the Chamber. And there was no objection. He can't on his way change a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u119	For limited discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u120	I agree. So because Mr Alexiadis opened the debate as a non-objection - so I told him that there is a representative - I will give a minute to whoever he wants from each party. Last you, Mr. Loverdos, as a parliamentarian. Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister referred to the government's overdue debts to the private sector. He said the year of 2014 was a success story...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u122	No, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u123	Just a minute, Minister, to be precise about what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u124	We don't have a dialogue. I won't let the process relax. Mr. Alexiadis, you saw what you created. You're welcome, talk. Keep going, Mr. Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u125	I would like the Minister, Mr Alexiadis, if he would be kind enough to present to Parliament the course of the public's overdue debts towards the private sector. It will simply confirm that the reduction from 2012 - when the previous government received therrears were over 8 billion and when it delivered it was about 3 billion - the Samara Government reduced the outstanding debts over 5 billion. Also, to remember, Mr Alexiadis, what the circumstances were when the previous government received. There was a deficit in the budget at a very negative rate of growth. While we also handed over primary surplus and positive growth in 2014, all you managed to do was increase government debts by around 80%. Finally, for the great success of tax revenues, I would remind you, Mr Alexiadis, that first too many people have paid credit cards only for HISPIA. It also raises a question. You have budgeted in the preliminary draft state budget 2 billion for government debts due, but also for outstanding tax reimbursements. However, overdue debts have been reduced by only EUR 600 million. Where'd the rest go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Dimas, don't open any more issues. That is all in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u127	I want ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u128	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u129	Or have new dues been born or very simply not yet placed on the market. In any case, however, you have failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u130	Mr Gaki, I leave you last - if you like - to confuse you, if you want to take the floor. Mr. Panagiotaros has been placed. Mr. Loverdo, I said that as a parliamentarian you'd be closed down. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I have also told the committee that we obviously agree with the ratification of this multilateral cooperation agreement and the information exchange standard, which enables our country to participate in an international effort to combat tax evasion. And I said attributes that the accession of our country to this multilateral agreement bears the signature of Mr Hardouvels on 29-10-2014. From that point on, instead of the government taking this opportunity to take part and our initiative into an attempt to deal with the problem of tax evasion, Mr Alexiadis comes here every time and makes reasons for the government's success. Governments must understand the limits of each debate at Parliament's level. With Mr Alexiadis and the government, we will obviously be opposed when the time comes for this success story, which is not based anywhere, because the people are squeezing in the ATMs and in the auction rooms of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u133	Mr Vardalis, you have been placed, but in any case, for one minute to answer what has been said. I would ask Members to share what the Minister has said with them. Here you go, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the Minister has every right to take advantage of the opinion of the Communist Party. It does not have the right, however, to distort and even consciously distort the position of the JRC. I would just like to remind him that, in our position, we have made this clear in addition to all others: in the question of whether tax evasion has to be caught, we are clearly answering yes. Only at the same time are we saying that the working people, the people, must not have any illusions, because the result of the fight against part of tax evasion is not going to go to him. That is the criticism we make of the government. And here, in any case,'single the island'. Minister, this money you're collecting, we say it clearly, because it seems from your policy, you give it to subsidies, tax exemptions and various incentives to big capital. That's your policy. She's unpopular, anti-liberal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Black, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u136	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Cammane, would you like to take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u138	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u139	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to remind the honourable Members of the opposition that this government is trying very hard to deal with the issue of revenue and expenditure. We are not only competing for how the money will be raised, but we are looking at how we are not going to waste the money - for the first time I imagine. And I would like, if we are distributed with the evidence from Mr Alexiadis - wishful work, it would be - each Parliamentary group in writing, in writing, to make comments, that is, whether it is right or wrong or any other qualitative comment would have on the figures. The numbers don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u141	You will tell them in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u142	Because there is going to be a debate on this as to whether we have brought more revenue and it seems historically from the tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u143	I don't know if it's written in the papers that will be distributed to you and how many Greeks have paid with a plastic card in September, because that's what matters. We close by my fellow speakers, if he wants to take the floor, with Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u144	I do not want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much. Now let's go to Mr. Loverdos for two minutes, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, after Mr Loverdos, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u147	No, I'm not giving you the floor again. I'm not stepping on her again, Minister. You opened a wound to me. You'll answer the budget. Why didn't you tell me you were going to say this? You told me that you wanted a little more time to ratify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u148	I'm asking why I'm talking. If you don't give him to me, it's on your own responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u149	Okay. I will close the debate, as the Rules of Procedure say, because you broke him and left you and I am to blame.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u150	No, I didn't break him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I and Mr Mavrotas and Mr Dimitris Kammenos, as the process was going on before the Minister, in his naivety, that is, he served us because we have a Committee of Inquiry and a Committee of European Affairs and, as you said, the Conference was totally unanimous. I think that, since there are no amendments, we shall proceed with the procedures for the summary ratification of the Rules of Procedure (11,108 etc.).). And the Minister comes here and instead of closing the debate, he opens it. And it opens it with much more general theme: the path of society and the economy. All right, you all right? The question is not rhetoric, nor am I in any mood to have any staff with you. Are you all right, Minister, at political level? [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Are you here at the National Representation and Trade when, to give you an item from a retired civil servant, his share fund in October 2015 was EUR 96,88, in June 2016 was EUR 44,90 and yesterday 22 euros? And you have the courage to come here and fight? What prevents you from accepting what is the truth? That, i.e., or your revenues will go well everywhere I discommunication and not activate the cutter, but it will bleed the society or it will not go well and it will activate the cutter. It's a cliff and back stream. Are you in a position to attend to the government work? As a tax-payer and tax-payer, come here to laugh, but as a political official, a member of a government that promised others, you must feel heartfelt when you enter the National Representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds and to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u154	Sure. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u155	For two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u156	Let the Members of Parliament finish first and then, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u157	I thought they're done. If they haven't finished, let everyone finish then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u158	No, maybe others need to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u159	Yeah, but the conversation will be reopened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Painter. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u161	If the parliamentary representatives are finished, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u162	Yeah, but the conversation will be reopened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u163	Mr. President, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u164	If he talks again, the debate will be reopened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u165	Look, we need to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, the Chair is united. Land refused to speak to the Minister and rightly before entering the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u167	I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u168	Of course you didn't. So let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u169	But I gave the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u170	The Minister has raised himself on no subject, caused a circle of debate and, if he comes back, we will never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u171	It has been a personal matter, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u172	Come on, what personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u173	I have asked for the floor on staff because Mr. Loverdos attacked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u174	All right, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u175	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u176	However, I would ask that a new round of debate should not be called into question again, so that we can move forward. We have another bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u177	First of all, I think there was no other Minister who was so briefly proposing a specific bill and closed it. But I am opposed to the attacks and I am referring to the attacks on naivety. I fully understand the attack, but the ones who blame me for taxed and taxed, and they took the property tax to 600 million a year and took him to 3.4 billion a year probably not dead, praised. That's why I stand up to it. Two things to be clear, so there's no misunderstanding. Firstly, I did not refer to public debts to the private sector. The table that has been shared is for the debts of citizens and businesses to the citizens. Secondly, with regard to credit card payment, we do not have any data at the Ministry of Finance. Whoever has it, let him present it. Because I'm reading articles, we don't have that kind of evidence that taxes were paid with credit cards. If someone considers that within the month of September the Greeks' credit rating increased so much that they paid 5.5 billion with credit cards, this is a pleasant news for the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u178	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: "Following the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts Information and Implementing Provisions". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u187	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Under the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities on Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts Information and Application Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u189	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the second bill of the other supplementary agenda. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions’. The above bill after the decision of the Standing Parliamentary Committee on Production and Trade, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you here that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of Wednesday, 5 October 2016, the debate on the principle and on the articles will be concluded at a maximum of ten hours. I therefore propose that the debate and the vote - if there is a roll-call vote - be completed by 21.30 seconds at the latest. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I also propose - although not provided for in the Rules of Procedure - that five speakers from the SYRIZA be given the floor, three speakers from the New Democracy and a certain speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, a certain speaker from the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR, a certain speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, a certain speaker from the Potami, a certain speaker from the Independent Greeks, a certain speaker from the Central Association, as well as a speaker from the Independent Members. Finally, I propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. As far as speaking time is concerned, I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the other ministers and the Deputy Ministers, eight minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, 14 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, 12 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, 10 minutes and the political parties designated five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u190	The House therefore agreed. Because the Minister is on the way and blocked, if you have no objection, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Karanastassis, will take the floor. Here, Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill that aims to put the air transport sector into order, but above all to modernise it in our country. The global environment of air transport is a dynamically and rapidly changing field in which operations are largely defined by the implementation of European Union regulations, as well as by the decisions of the European Aviation Safety Agency, EASA. It is precisely as a result of these regulations that the need for a complete distinction between the services provided and the relevant state service in our country, our well-known Civil Aviation Service, in relation to its supervisory and regulatory role, is evident so as to be able to meet the new challenges of the new air transport environment in our country at last. The Civil Aviation Service, not of course in its current form, counts about nine decades of existence and activity in the airline of the country. Its current situation, a result of previous years' policies, leads to the devaluation of both the Agency and air transport despite the superhuman efforts of the workers. Its deprivation from means and resources results in the risk of even this national nature of air traffic control, as well as of the management of regional airports in remote and difficult access areas, such as islands. The intention of the policy of previous governments - and I am sorry to say this - was to privatise both airspace control and the management of all airports in the country. False witness of my words is the assignment of the management of state airports to a public limited company, as it appeared at Law 3913/2011, whose function would be based on the economic viability documentation, which is known to be uncertain and therefore would lead to the closure of most regional airports. They also intended to privatise the air navigation provider in the Cyprus standards, which would lead to the assignment of national sovereignty and clearly redundancies of workers. They are the same who, in the debate of the bill in the committee responsible, expressed the late fears of losing the national control of FIR Athens and asked whether the new structure of the Office would be controlled by the lenders. Contrary to the practice of the previous governments, it is the current government's decision to maintain control over Greece's airspace and the regional airports in Greece under public management and to strengthen their operation, even if this function is not always profitable. Since I have referred to the committee debate, I should now also like to respond to the concerns of the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration as to whether they will be appointed to the new jobs to be created, post-mortem employees. No, Mr. Comrade. We weren't, and we're not like you. It seems to me that at a time of increased unemployment you are in advance rushing to demonize job creation. To close with the committee, we were accused of delaying our negotiations and bringing the bill to 'approximately five' under the urgency procedure. So supposedly was our negotiation, ladies and gentlemen, to prevent the assignment of national sovereignty, which you agreed on? This was also mentioned by the employees' representatives from the OSH yesterday. Mr President, coming back to the development of the contents of the draft law under discussion, I note that the Civil Aviation Service is currently facing challenges which have to do with new operating parameters, such as the new framework of competition in the air transport sector, the installation and operation of new companies, the development of water, the provision of airport services to individuals, the development and development of unmanned aircraft systems, the development of air navigation systems. To date, the Presidential Decree 52/201 has been in force and applies, but it does not fully cover the operational, administrative and financial independence of the supervisory authority in aviation and airport charges or, of course, the modern requirements for air transport. This draft law aims at and we believe that full functional, economic and administrative separation of air navigation services and airport charges is achieved by setting up an Independent Administrative Authority and, of course, harmonisation with international law, as well as functionality on the basis of the new data on the air transport restructuring of the PSY. Thus, with the draft law being discussed, the existing Civil Aviation Service is operatingly and organisationally restructured as an autonomous public service, which will now be a high-level service provider. At the same time, the Civil Aviation Authority is recommended as an Independent Administrative Authority with the task of exercising regulatory and supervisory powers. The Civil Aviation Authority is also intended to be the regulator of the economic environment, created after the concession agreement for the management of the fourteen regional airports, as well as for the full adaptation of our country to the European provisions governing the operation of the single European sky and the use of charges resulting from air transport and airports. Furthermore, the Civil Aviation Authority will be the custodian of compliance with the aviation safety regulations and the protection of aviation against unlawful action. In this way, functional and organisational separation of regulatory and supervisory responsibilities is achieved by the already operating Civil Aviation Service and assumes these responsibilities by the Civil Aviation Authority. The aim is thus to ensure the exercise in a sound, transparent and objective manner of regulatory and supervisory competence. Furthermore, the same objective, namely the strengthening of the principles of transparency and integrity, serves to radically change the way in which the commander and the sub-command are located and the establishment of the Executive Board of the PSC and the Civil Aviation Authority. Finally, I believe it is worth pointing out that the binding drafting and monitoring of the budgets and operational plans of these two public services is being introduced, so that the necessary monitoring and transparency are available to ensure that the conditions for the healthy development of the air space, namely, the development of our national economy, are ensured. The draft law is structured in four chapters. The first chapter of the proposed draft law refers to the recommendation, the way of administration and the purpose of the Independent Civil Aviation Authority, the AAA. The functional, administrative and financial separation of the authority shall be ensured by the provision of air navigation services and airports and aquarium operators. The Governor and the Executive Board shall be chosen by public procedures and by the final opinion of the Greek Parliament. The responsibility of the Executive Board lies with the general oversight and control of the functioning of the Civil Aviation Authority, as part of the implementation of the operational action plan, and is responsible for introducing European legislation into our country and adapting market operators to them. The functioning of the Authority shall be complemented by the Directorate-General for Regulations and Surveillance, which shall be supervised by the Governor and the Executive Board and which shall be subject to fourteen addresses. The relevant articles of the draft law describe in detail the responsibilities of these directorates in order to achieve a distinct role of monitoring by operation. Finally, the civil Aviation Authority’s supervisory authorities coordinate a new inspectorate, including the Airways and Air Navigation Inspectors. It should be noted that particular attention has been paid to achieving the necessary functional separation from the air navigation service provider, the Airport Management Agency and the Public Water Management Agency. It is foreseen that at each airport it becomes an Air Authority, which plays a supervisory and regulatory role in matters relating to the application of the rules on aviation law, as described in Greek, Community and international legislation. A key part of the authority’s responsibilities is the systematic conduct of on-the-spot inspections of safety and protection of flights and airports. The staff of the authority shall carry out inspections to third parties, for example on-site service providers, air carriers and security service companies, while provision shall be made to ensure operational independence between the audited and the requirements of the European Union. An important innovation is the reorganisation of the Civil Aviation School, because with this reorganisation it is able to create new sources of revenue and takes an active role in the examinations and certifications of pilots of aircraft and persons involved in aviation safety. Chapter II of the Bill deals with the restructuring of the Civil Aviation Department. The service is managed by its commander, which is governed by the Directorate-General for Administrative, Financial and Technical Support and a series of addresses and offices, and two sub-commands are created: the Deputy Director for Air Navigation Services and the Deputy Director for Airport and Aquarium Management. With the objective of ensuring transparency, an Executive Board shall be set up, the members of which shall be chosen by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, at the recommendation of the Minister for Transport and Networks. They have full functional, administrative and financial autonomy and are not controlled by governmental bodies, state bodies or other administrative authorities, but only by parliamentary control. It is characteristic - and I note it in response to the opposite comments which have been made by colleagues at the committee meeting - that the addresses and sections are reduced by 25% by saving resources and operating costs from the previous demonstrable structure model, without reducing jobs. On the other hand, the description of a model compatible with modern needs will give rise to new jobs. The provisions of Chapter 3 lay down specific issues for APM and the Civil Aviation Service and provide the special legislative authority for the relevant Minister to propose the adoption of a Presidential Decree regulating specific issues of its Agency. Transitional provisions of a legal nature are also introduced, the matters of payment of the allowance under Law 2682/1999 are regulated by civil aviation officials and the provisions repealed are set out. Finally, the fourth chapter deals with urgent staff mobility issues in order to directly cover staffing needs, which will arise from the functioning of the new organisational structure of this draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. The question of the staff allocation of Air Traffic Auditors’ staff shall also be settled after the loss of the auditor’s expertise. Finally, they are regulated by Articles 78, 79 and 80, which incorporate the proposed amendment of Law 4070/2012: ‘Electronic communications, transport, public works and other provisions’, the urgent matters of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Postal, as well as the extension of a time limit for the adoption of a Presidential Decree on the terms and conditions for the allocation of travel expenses to members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. The estimated annual cost is estimated at approximately EUR 250,000 and will be borne exclusively by the budget of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. The provisions of this Legislation impose a burden both on the State budget, on costs arising from the restructuring of the administrative structure and on the new operating framework of the Civil Aviation Service and on the budgets of the Civil Aviation Authority and the National Telecommunications and Post Committee. Of the corresponding expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the bodies in the committee responsible, I think it was clear that the draft law covers adequately the issue that deals with and sets out the rules necessary for the proper functioning of the transport sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. The rapporteur, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, of Achilles, has the floor. We're talking about the father name because you're two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of Infrastructure seems to be stuck in traffic. We have Mr. Alexiadis here, so we'll do with him. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again we can see that the government has chosen to follow the surpriseing urgency procedure, that is to say, legislation once again on the basis of the exception rather than the rule. However, the truth is that they have known for several months, both the government and the Minister responsible, that this bill should have come, which actually separates the supervisor from the supervised one. We were just waiting to see how the government would try to achieve this. However, the government has delayed tabling the bill and is introducing it under the urgency procedure, in order to avoid another debate on the substance. It is now clear that once again legislate in secret. We, as a New Democracy, were the party that made concessions in the management of airports. We were the ones who, from the outset, stressed that such action should be accompanied by a regulatory and regulatory service. In this effort, in other words, to create a modern Civil Aviation Service, we have experienced many obstacles and many reactions from trade unions belonging to SYRIZA. It is therefore a good point - to say a few good words - that, once again, you are escaping from your ideological squats and you understand the need to establish an independent authority. This makes us particularly surprised, because we know and have seen for the last five months what passions the Minister has been with, but also other government ministers attack in order of independent authorities. But let's start over. Is it necessary to set up an entire independent administrative authority solely responsible for this matter? The answer is 'there is probably no'. Is there any other model in Europe? The answer is 'no' again. Is it, as the Minister has told us, an obligation on the Greek side stemming from the concession agreement for the ten airports? This time the answer is 'no'. On this point, I think it is good to remember that the Minister a few weeks ago tried to disorientate communication articles - you will allow me to say - public opinion. For weeks now we have all been reading the press in a tough manner, it is the truth, that there is a very great risk. What's the danger? The risk that the air navigation provider can say can be privatised. At the time when the reactions are starting to accumulate, the Minister comes and proposes a so-called alternative, the establishment of the independent authority, a solution which, I repeat, was not a requirement of FRAPORT, nor was it a prerequisite for the convention signed by the New Democracy. I would remind you of this because for all the previous government had committed itself, it was to set up an address for the supervision of airport contracts within the establishment plan. Therefore, it is good to know what these requirements are and to understand that they have been created since the last 15 months of SYRIZA's presence in the government headquarters. Even if someone agrees with the establishment of an independent authority, the way you choose to do so is extremely problematic: a non-damn dialogue with the institutions, no information, an attempt to surprise Parliament. The reason is simple. With regard to both the Civil Aviation Authority and the restructuring that you are going to do in the FAO, the draft law is governed by hydrocephalism and is found in rhetorical provisions. While one could say that setting up the independent authority can also be in the right direction, the way in which you implement this independent authority is outrageous. Let us see, for example, the structure that this new beginning will have. We have the commander, who has five autonomous offices, has an address, has an executive board underneath, also has a general address consisting of eleven directorates and two supervisory authorities. If we put all this together, it's actually sixty-five sections and twenty-two self-determination offices. Not only that, but even the General Accounting Office of the State cannot calculate the expenditure for this whole bureaucratic structure. Even if someone is in favour of setting up an independent authority, it is clear that the way you build it is in the wrong direction. Similarly, we can see that a new bureaucratic mechanism is also being created in the OSH which is truly incredible and uniquely targeted seems to have the creation of uncomfortable jobs. The Minister, of course, tried to justify the committee on the grounds that the haircut of services is normal. In other words, it is normal for the Minister and the Government that the new Civil Aviation Service has three economic services, three human resources addresses and three legal services. It can be normal for him, however, unfortunately, it violates every logic rule. Let me give a few more examples, such as the establishment of the PSC of the executive board of an institution of doubtful necessity in which the commander is involved, but also four external members. In other words, the two sub-commanders will not participate in the Executive Board of the Agency in whose management they are involved, nor even as members and without the right to vote. We also have the new advisor office of the commander, which will be run by five poster staff without knowing the need for such an office to be set up and staffed. The impressive fact is that at least two posts of the five will be covered by posted officials in the capacity of legal adviser, at the same time that the bill itself creates three legal services. So in other words, what does the government do? In order to settle the latter, it creates a body of administrative addresses and departments. At the same time, while increasing its administrative services, it reduces operational services from sixteen to ten. We would like to ask the Minister to report to us the real needs and European cheques on which this whole structure is based. I could not, by closing down, refer to the case of Article 71 on so-called transfers. The Minister in the committee should say that I, at least, was not convinced of this matter. So he does not answer a simple question: why are the transfers not made through the Staff Board? Why then do we have service councils? Of course, the reason why this process is chosen is obvious and governs, after all, the whole philosophy of the bill. In addition to all the above, questions arise in another important area, the one concerning economic matters. I am not just referring to the fact that the State General Accounting Office cannot even calculate the costs in the state budget, which will have the new establishment plan. The question arises as to where EUROCONTROL money is going. There is a serious issue on this issue, which we will certainly find in front of us. In other words, we have a bill intended on the one hand to be lawful with European data and, on the other, to infringe a directive, Directive 391/2013, as regards the transparent management of air traffic revenue, which is now, as a matter of priority, financed for airports which have not been privatised. It is certain that this will create many legal issues in the European Court of Justice. Mr President, we have to realise that by tabling such bills, we are ultimately not helping to develop the country. The image of a new, hydro-headed and bureaucratic civil aviation service does not help to build an entity that controls and coordinates air traffic and air transport. Mr President, I have tried to present the positions of the New Democracy in detail. What I think we should have in the back of our minds is that this is where a draft paper is being created, costly, old-fashioned and mainly anti-developmental. A bill that is so handy in planning, which presents many legal issues, as the revealing yesterday's report of the Parliament's Scientific Service shows. A bill which, halfway through, follows a European logic and attitude, recommending an independent authority and, on the other hand, is governed by a Soviet-dominated logic, with a complete roussephetological dimension, a hydro capitalism, an adoption of demonic organograms, covered by an attempt to settle the days. In all this, the attitude of the New Democracy is one, it is clear and it is given that we do not consent to its micro-political logic yesterday. We are in favour of substantial reforms, in favour of reforms that highlight the capacity of the Greek services in a context, according to European data and European practices. In this sense, the New Democracy is voting against the bill both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Karamanlis. The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Zarulia, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. The game is set, the papers are marked. You are not representing the nation, despite your pocket alone. You do not give five sacks for the welfare of the Greek people. You're tyrants. I feel the need to make a huge appeal, to address all the Members of Parliament, especially young people, who may have entered politics with dreams for a better tomorrow for the place, but have ended up inappropriate pawns and deathbeds of our compatriots. Do you really have a quiet conscience when you sign the impoverishment of the Greek people and the concession of our national sovereignty? Sleep quietly at night? The images of violence against Greeks, retired for example, don't they touch you? Everyone must at last assume their responsibilities. The country is run by a range of national dangerous people. They sell the water and the air, with what that means. They are fat from the misery that they have brought to our neighborhoods and to every corner of the Greek land. I wonder why the representatives of the judiciary do not defend our country's charter. Why don't guardians of our national sovereignty do the self-evident thing? Isn't there anyone who wants law and law to be enforced?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u196	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u197	Everything has been levelled at the altar of money and greed. Another bill, therefore, comes under the urgency procedure, as foreign masters are protecting themselves, with the "required" to disburse your EUR 2.8 billion dose, which - on the way! - they're not gonna go for the good of the country. You are to the detriment of the Greek people, at the expense of the public interest, in an extremely anti-grassy way, and you are leading us even deeper into the memorial darkness. You run to prevent the time limits set by the lenders. You are using the procedures of urgency and urgency primarily in your legislation, so that the necessary processing and information time does not exist. It is not possible for you to legislate - a way of saying, since everything is ready from the outside - and for us to try to look at the measures introduced and regulations within a minimum period of time. We have denounced it many times and we will continue to do so. The rush is such that, in the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, it is repeatedly stated that ‘the expenditure in question has not been determined by the expedited Ministry’ and that ‘the financial result cannot be determined because the relevant information has not been sent from the expedited Ministry’. I wonder how it is possible that the necessary data have not been sent, given that there will be a burden on the state budget. It is unacceptable that you have reached the level of carelessness you have reached. If it is not rough, then it is ignorant or even worse lack of interest. In any case, as we characterize this situation, one thing is sure: you are dangerous! This bill fulfils another Memorandum of Understanding, which is essential for the transfer of the fourteen regional airports to the ‘FRAFORT’. The process of restructuring the Civil Aviation Agency, the PSC, by separating the regulatory and regulatory framework, is the key to the uninterrupted implementation of the Convention and the transition to the new era. This new era is marked by the privatization of the water, by the unconditional concession of national sovereignty to all ultimately sectors and by the total enslavement to the international loan sharks, which are the main regulators of our country. A few days ago, the Minister of Infrastructure went to Brussels to negotiate the public character of the FMC and the air navigation provider and returned triumphantly and claiming that he passed his own. Yesterday the Commission said that it was proud of the outcome of the negotiations. Obviously, these are the well-known negotiations by the present government, like the previous nationalists, who have clear communication objectives of disorientation and striving for the Greek people. Of course, the preliminary draft of this bill has already been approved by the Institutions and as regards regional airports that are not privatised, they are going through the new supranationalisations, with the management of them staying in the OSH, as set out here. In summary, the draft is composed of four chapters and through these provisions the separation of the PSC into two parts, that of regulatory and regulatory competence and that of the operational function is attempted. Regarding the restructuring of Civil Aviation, it is worth noting that it has already started in spring 2004, when Greece co-signed together with its European partners, Norway and Switzerland, the regulation of the single European organisation, Single European Sky, a regulation that originally provided for the freedom of air transport in the European airspace, eventually developed into a European airspace management and control regulation. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, if they want to talk, they can go outside. I can't go on. They can go out and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u198	Please, Mr Yakumato, don't speak to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u199	It's my fault, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u200	Yeah, you sound like it. Get out in the foyer and talk! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u201	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u202	The incentives of creating this regulation were purely political and were as follows: The pressures of economic interests on free movement in European airspace, the attempt to release Europe from the International Organisation for Air Navigation and Safety and the strengthening of EUROCONTROL, the central bureaucratic management of the European airspace and the weakening of the Member States of the European Union on these issues. This regulation in its application, in conjunction with the bill that we have today in our hands, without doubt, has some impact on our national security. The national-state-to date management of the airspace ensured the exercise of a common policy of the Ministries of National Defence, Foreign Affairs and Transport on sensitive national issues. By entering private individuals, the airspace will not be controlled by public services, but by private companies. This development is dangerously weakening our state competences in the management of air spaces. Especially at a time when the provocative policy of the neighbouring country has exceeded every limit with Erdogan seeking to revise the Losan Treaty, at such times, control of national airspace through the control of airports and civil aviation, whether by the Germans through FRAPORT or by the administration of the new surplus, will jeopardise the country's national interests, sovereign rights and defence. We should not overlook the fact that the Turkish NOTAMs arrive in the PSC and that it is responsible for answering, rejecting or accepting them. It can therefore be realised that the fate of the national airspace will also be judged according to Europeans' dispositions and pursuits. I would like to focus on a number of points that give rise to a lot of questionable and alpine impression, starting with Article 1. A particular reference must be made to this Article, as it provides that the existence of this new authority as an independent authority enjoys functional independence, administrative and financial autonomy and, in addition, is not subject to control by governmental bodies or other administrative authority. And Article 2 states that the commander is essentially subject to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and its decisions. Such an important part of the administration and control of a state, such as aviation, is handed over to an independent and uncontrolled authority, which, beyond its regulatory and operational role, also has the financial management of the whole air transport area, air navigation and airports. Article 65 sets out the issues of the establishment and management of revenue arising from road and terminal charges. (a) Special Account 234378/8 of Article 34 of Law 2682/1999: ‘Regions on the taxation of motor vehicles, vehicles and other provisions’, as amended, entitled ‘E.D. - Route fee account, awarded by EUROCONTROL, to which 80% of the total revenue paid monthly by the European Organisation for the Safety of Flights will be credited; and (b) Special Account 234379/6 of Article 73 of Law 3431/2006 entitled ‘Greek State - Product from the transfer of the Greek State's future revenue from EUROCONTROL’. In addition, a new special account is set up for the needs of the Civil Aviation Authority, whose revenue comes from the route and terminal charges and is attributed by the European Organisation for the Safety of Flights. The Civil Aviation Authority will be the body responsible for managing the new special account to which 20% of the total revenue paid monthly by the European Agency for the Safety of Flights will be credited. Here are the following questions: Why is there going to be a new specific FMD account, where 20% of the total revenue, paid monthly by the European Agency for the Safety of Flights, will be credited? What are the amounts of money for? In any case, why should these authorities manage the funds under a special legal regime, which provides unexplained autonomy to their golden-paid future governors? Finally, Article 78 on the substance gives the authorisation to the National Telecommunications Commission - Posts to activate the security and military corps guards if necessary. In other words, you are telling us that an independent administrative authority can rule and give orders to the Greek army or to the Greek police. After all that I have said, it is clear that this draft law shows the intention of our country's rulers to fully subdue another vital sector of domestic economic activity to the suggestions of compliance with the European Union's directives. However, we should not overlook that the aviation sector is a particularly sensitive and crucial issue for the national sovereignty of an independent and sovereign state. Ensuring the possibility of adequate control, immediate supervision and decisive regulatory intervention of the sovereign State in the operational framework of aviation on its territory is a necessary condition, prerequisite for its national independence, and under no circumstances may it be sacrificed on the altar of the neoliberal pursuits of Brussels. Once in antiquity the barbarians asked for "health and water", as was the case with the previous bill. Now it seems that other than land and water they want the air! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to conclude by reminding all our fellow citizens, but especially you, the nomadic provision of the Constitution, the defence of which you have always used in your opposition speech in the past: Compliance with the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks, who are entitled and are obliged to resist any attempt to destroy it by force. Today, violence is in the form of endless catastrophic and urgent measures! The People's Association - Golden Dawn will vote against this bill as an act of resistance against foreigners who are fleeing our country and against their present submissives. We will inform you that we will apply for a roll-call vote on Articles 1 and 78. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, too. I would like to ask Mr Koutsouko, a special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, to speak. Mr. Kutsuko, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very serious issue today, as what is going to happen with the Civil Aviation Service is not just about the prerequisites and the need to disburse the 2.8 billion-dollar. Of course it has to do with it, and our observation is that the government always reaches its ends, that is to say, it always goes under the bar, it runs alone and it goes on its own - I say that, in order to make it understandable - and given that this debate on what is going to take place with the PSC has started almost a year ago. Except that in the past very serious discussions have taken place on the need to separate the object of the regulatory and supervisory authority from a service of an operational nature. So the government wasted time as usual and brings the House to discuss beforehand a bill of urgency. It has been shown from the debate yesterday and from the presence of bodies that there are too serious issues to tackle in such a piece of legislation linked to human lives, to the safety of flights, to the capacity of FIR, issues relating to national security issues, and much more to our position in the wider Mediterranean region and the Balkans. We cannot discuss all this in this way, and much more so that the government brings a piece of legislation in which it attempts to describe the administrative structures of two agencies, but without being certain. This has also been seen by the interventions of operators - particularly technical, air traffic controllers, telecommunications and electronics - that if it manages to assemble the infrastructure, systems and human resources in such a way that the project is effective and at least improve the services provided, if it does not make them worse. We, ladies and gentlemen, have a firm view on issues relating to principles. This has nothing to do with what the Troikas say each time, as the government has shown. We on the issue of the role and status of regulatory and supervisory authorities have been very clear from the past, since we did the ADP since the 2001 constitutional reform, which established them, from our firm position in supporting all the independent authorities, those who are trampled daily by the government, as is done with the PSE. Therefore, on the basis of this position, which is a position of progressive, social-democratic and central-left forces in the country, we have no reason at first to oppose such segregation. Of course - in introductory words - 'we welcome' the accession to this position and to SYRIZA, then says, of heroic negotiation made by the Minister. What heroic negotiation? It is heroic to negotiate that it has achieved the self-evident, that is to say, on the basis of European Union regulations as necessary. There are other points of view, that the independence of the supervisory-regulatory authority could be achieved by operational action within the same service or various other formats, general secretariat, special secretariat, etc. I do not think that these would be effective or would serve a goal, rather than perhaps the stumbling of some. So we'll have a clean spot. That is our position in principle. On the basis of this position in principle, the government could also secure our vote if it were to legislate properly and if it did not attempt, through these regulations, to make arrangements for which we are opposed and to which I shall refer. Therefore, when you make an independent authority, you must obviously select a commander through the institutionalised procedures of the House, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the Conference of Presidents. This is done with the provisions concerning the independent authority and we have no objection. It's an independent authority. To understand what the difference between the independent authorities and the public services is. The independent authorities, according to the Constitution and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, fall within the sphere of public interest. What are you telling us? Who are you going to make fun of, that it's not an independent authority and it's a public service?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u205	A ministry shall not form an independent authority or any regulatory authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u206	Secondly, there are some questions about the independent authority itself, Mr Minister, which will to a certain extent determine our position. Do you not tell me, does it result from any clear provision that the commander of the new independent authority will be Greek? We want a reassurance to Parliament before the Greek people. Because, yes, it can in the committee that chooses and will determine your proposal to have advisers from EUROCONTROL and from the other competent bodies, but it is very concerned with what will be the composition of the Supervisory Board not only here but also - and I shall refer to the Civil Aviation Service itself. So we want a clear word. Because, Minister, you cannot be trusted. The superstition, which bound the property of the Greek people for a hundred years, delivered it to a French conservative, partner of Sarkozy and Lagard. This is for the glory of progression and the second time of the Left! So we want a clean placement. From there on, obviously, on the issues connected with the structure of the independent authority, we cannot agree that there could not be a more simple structure. So advisers, offices, public relations, poster, the well-known poster army flooding public on the basis of their party qualifications? Easy! Are there not so many children qualified in society who are forced to leave abroad, and should you put the post-collectors and cooperation and strategy advisors with the signals of decoupling? I now come to the issues relating to the Civil Aviation Service itself, as defined in the second chapter. and structure of the Civil Aviation Service. I repeat here, on the basis of the President-in-Office's decree, which you are already authorizing, you should see how you will combine the operation of today's OSH - equipment, systems and staff - with both new services. Some will stay at the Civil Aviation Service, some will necessarily go to the new independent authority. This cannot be done by the way you legislate here. My point is this: the PSC is now state, public service. While on one hand you are simple to create two sub-commanders - what do you need them for? - Offices of sub-government, public relations offices, consultants and expatriated persons, on the other hand, degrade the services of large airports. I mentioned yesterday - and you said you would fix it and wait for your correction - at the largest regional airport in the country, which is Heraklion airport. It serves 7,000,000 people. You degrade it in a department. You do it in elementary school. That's what you need to solve. Because if you do not solve them here - because the law is valid - in three months' time when the presidential decrees are to be made, I do not know what corrections you will make again and what comments the Council of State will make to you, since the Presidential Decree has to pass through there. Now you will tell me, and with the Council of State, you have made it shiny, but this is another debate. Let's not get carried away. What matters to the service you are setting up, the new RDP, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister, in addition to the question of what we want the two Vice-Presidents, what we want all that, in my opinion, serves party interests and purposes, is what we want the supervisory board. Is there a public service where the commander or the secretary-general, that is, who has the political responsibility to run it, has a supervisory board? A Supervisory Board has been imposed by our creditors on the independent authority you have converted, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, the hardest core of the state, that is, the place that you have made an independent authority with a supervisory board, so that foreigners can speak with the participation of the Commissioner. Tell us: Have you made any agreement informal, which we will see along the way, on this supervisory board again, to have a role and a reason for the lenders? It must be very clear here what the majority Members will vote on. Because we are not going to vote for these provisions. We consider them to be a very disgraceful one. If they don't have that degrading character, the tradition, that is, by the so-called proud negotiation you're making, they have an unjustified character. However, ladies and gentlemen, what makes us sceptical in voting on the principle of this bill, although I have argued in favour of why, from a position of principle, the Democratic Assent is not contrary to the Independent Authorities, it is the remark of the General Accounting Office of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to read what is stated in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the General Accounting Office of the State. It says that the government, which now had a ready plan and had given it to consultation, while the trade unions told us that no consultation took place, was unable to give to the General Accounting Office of the State the income and expense of this service. How much money do we have from EUROCONTROL? So much. Where are they going? What will be the cost or the benefit of the State budget? Why didn't you do that? Is there a failure of the services? Didn't show us such a thing yesterday, the FDA commander, whom you brought here. My experience from the past says there is no weakness. So there's a point. What is the purpose of avoiding the revenue and expenditure account? We do not understand that. If you did not have these provisions, if your legislation were transparent, if you did not take the powers and the transitional provisions, obviously we could vote on them. We must, however, authorize you, for something you will do in the absence of the House, to vote on transitional provisions to make party transfers, without the Councils of Ministers, without ensuring that the officials in the PSC are given priority in the transfers to safeguard their interests, that we cannot do so. I conclude by saying this: do not attempt, Minister, to tell us again that the result of your legislation is welcomed by the workers and on that basis to support your arguments. Because it turned out that these workers had been terrified all the time, when they saw that where you had lifted the red flags that you would not hand over PPC, EKDA or EKDAF, you handed them over to the excess. Therefore, they had justified fears that this will also be done here. It obviously didn't happen, because the FIR can't be delivered, but that's no point in celebrating. It's a sign to see how you've become untrustworthy as government, no one trusts you. Therefore, when they temporarily avoid death they feel happy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly our positive view of the framework of the legislation, of the independent authority and of the service, but also our reservations, which do not allow us to vote. So at first we shall vote for 'Paris'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u207	Thank you too, Mr. Kutsuko. I would like to inform the House that two amendments have been tabled by the Ministers, Mr Paradise and Mr Skourletis. I would ask that they be distributed to the Members. They will be supported by the ministers now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u208	When did they get filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u209	Now they've been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u210	Have you been subject to legislative amendments? Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Theoharopoulos, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and how 50 students and apprentices and three educational attendants from the 8th High School and the Luxury Classes of Hailland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak for ten seconds on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Katsotis, do you agree that Mr. Theocharopoulos will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u215	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u216	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u217	The bill is urgent. There are amendments in place at the moment when we cannot see them. At least the ministers will come to present them, otherwise they will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u218	I said that, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u219	Because I know there's a minister missing right now. Don't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u220	Yeah, but he'll be here. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we want once again to denounce the urgent procedure and the practice followed, that is to say, to have amendments to this procedure. We have in front of us a draft law which, as has been said in the committees, is the result of the battle which was fought by the government in their consultation with the institutions and with the European Union. It is a result, in other words, of compromise with the requirements for such changes which, as you say, are in line with European directives and regulations. What's coming to solve this draft law? Does it come to strengthen the terms and conditions for more effective control of national airspace? Does it come to strengthen flight safety, strengthen with personnel and technical means the Civil Aviation Service, so that it is more effective in its operation and in the services it offers at the airports of the country? Really, what was the problem with the Civil Aviation Service? Why is the Independent Civil Aviation Authority created? Is the PSC supported or degraded? Will the ADA dominate and why? What was it that the European Union was judged to be an unobjective attitude of the Civil Aviation Service, as the HR commander said and gave birth to the necessity of the Civil Aviation Authority? Is the draft law linked to the new European Union aviation strategy, with the introduction of new rules in the field of civil aviation? Is it related to the debate on the establishment of a European Union Aviation Safety Agency? Is it related to the perspective discussed in the European Union for the transfer of certification, supervision powers by each Member State of the European Union to this body established? Is it not the basis of such rights? The draft law is, in our assessment, a continuation of the anti-popular policy of the European Union, of the decisions to liberalise sectors such as transport, energy and others. It is a continuation of the full compliance of co-government, which is adapted to these decisions and to the choices of large capital. It is in the same direction as regional airports and their privatisation. It promotes privatisation, contributes to the liberalisation of air transport, to the creation of new profitable fields for monopolistic groups. It promotes the sale of the PSC, the removal of its responsibilities, thereby having a significant impact on the safety of flights, on the passenger public, but also on the issues of national sovereignty, by subjugating the needs of the country's Air Force and defense. It will also bring about a number of changes in employment relations, by reducing a large proportion of the jobs in the staff of the OSH, increasing privatization, abolishing labour rights. It is recommended that the Civil Aviation Authority is appointed as commander, that the Executive Board and other bodies drafting the strategic and operational planning according to the new data in the market environment. The Civil Aviation Service will be responsible for the organisation and development of air navigation services and the management of airports and aquariums. It will also draw up strategic and operational planning with data, also on the market. Therefore, the two services will operate for the benefit of the business groups. The Civil Aviation Service had as its task to recommend to the Minister the regulatory framework concerning the operation of airports and, at the same time, to govern, manage, manage, operate, develop, extend, maintain and operate the airports of the country and, at the same time, to recommend to the Minister the regulatory framework for air navigation and at the same time to provide air navigation services. In other words, she had the legislative and operational work within her competence. The draft law is now fully adapted to European regulations, changing the mission of the PSC. At the same time, the total revenue from the operational project will go to the private sector. Within the framework of the European Union's policy on common rules in the field of civil aviation, we are discussing - as I said before - the establishment of the European Union Aviation Safety Agency by repealing Regulation 216/2008. Among other things, the debate includes the transfer of certification, supervision powers from the member countries to the European Union Agency. The issue of air security comes within the logic of cost and benefit. Safety will depend on risk assessment. Flexibility is introduced in the regulation of safety, the abolition of all these regulations which make entrepreneurship difficult - as is said - with excessively restrictive requirements and complex, time-consuming and cost-consuming procedures. Security rules in accordance with the new rules should not reduce competitiveness. Air security shall be subject to the needs of business groups for greater profitability. This draft law, as the report says, is adapted by its articles to the implementation of the guidelines of the European Union, to the functioning of the single European sky, as well as to the European Union's overall strategy, which is precisely the support of monopolistic groups and the safeguarding of new profit-making paths. The claim that within the European Union, when integration is completed, with a common policy in all areas, is guaranteed stability and guaranteeing national sovereignty has proved to be a fairy tale. How do you judge the equal distances that the European Union has held in the Erdogan Declarations which called into question the Lausanne Treaty, namely the country's borders, and the gaming issue raised by the Commissioner of the European Union? Does it not prove that the European Union and NATO are forces of instability and war? Aren't they, after all, changing the borders with people's blood? They're forces of instability and war. They serve the needs of monopolistic groups. The draft law comes to strengthen this European Union strategy as a whole. After the concession of the airports that will be made - as has been said - at the beginning of 2017, the commander of the PSC will judge, Minister, by deciding whether there is surplus personnel in the Civil Aviation Service. In six months' time - as expected - this must be transferred to services in the wider public sector. The administration of the Civil Aviation Authority - which is set up by this draft law - is planned to be carried out by means of transfers from other bodies. It is not ensured by the draft law that the employees of the PSC, who can serve the Civil Aviation Authority, will remain. It is not provided for in the draft law. Also, Minister, with this draft law you abolish paragraph 2 of Article 26 of Law 3913/2011 that it ensured by facilitating the skills and skills of flying operators. They could have taken off unpaid leave. They're here, they're protesting and they want to see you. They want you to make a legislative improvement. They want you to do exactly the opposite of what you're doing. Keep paragraph 2 of Article 26 and remove the last subparagraph - you leave it - with which the EUROCONTROL allowance is cut. And today you're cutting it off of them. They want you to do exactly the opposite with legislative improvement, and we invite you to fix this. The bill in our assessment serves the complete liberalisation of air transport and services associated with it. It lays the foundations for privatisation, with what this means for the issues that we have raised above, such as national sovereignty, flight safety, national airspace control, increased costs for passengers, as well as for the labour, insurance rights of workers in the DPRK which are not guaranteed. On this basis, as a JRC, we have asked the committee, but we are now calling for this draft law to be withdrawn. To remain the sole competence of the Greek State, to ensure the national sovereignty and effective security of flights. Our position is that the Civil Aviation Service must be a single, public one, that air navigation with all airports in its power and all responsibilities. The PSC should be part of a single air transport operator, which should serve the people's needs and not the profitability of the monopolistic groups. On this basis we are voting against the draft law in principle and on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, has the floor to support the amendment by the Ministry of Justice concerning the addition of the provisions of Law 3213/2003 concerning statements of assets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u223	Mr Minister, please refer to the urgency. What is the need for the emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u224	Of course, Mr. Voridis. Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to make it clear that this amendment is tabled at the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control anywhere in Parliament, in order to facilitate the control of assets. In this amendment, in paragraph (c) of Article 2 of Law 3213/2003 the following subparagraph is added as follows: ‘In particular, persons who are subject to an obligation under Article 3B(2) of this Law and Article 7A(3)(c)(a) to (g) of Law No3691/2008 shall attach to the declaration copies of the necessary documents, from which the declared status, as specified in the Decision of the President of the Parliament and the Joint Ministerial Decision, is established, the version of which is provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 2 of Law No3213/2003’. The proposed regulation only aims at persons whose statements of property are referred to in the articles I have read earlier, namely persons controlled by the Commission anywhere in Parliament and by the Assets Control Unit. In this way and, as I said, at the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control, it is attempting to ensure maximum transparency and speed up the control of the persons who are subject to checks, by way of derogation from the provisions which provide for checks on non-compulsory persons. The urgency is that the submission of declarations from anywhere was as early as 1 October. For procedural reasons, it was extended on 15 October, so this had to be voted on today to prevent the opening of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Kutsuko, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u227	Allow me. I'm a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u228	Do you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u229	I would like to ask the Minister something because he will obviously not be sitting by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u230	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u231	Minister, if I understood it correctly, because I did not have time to study it, with this regulation that you have just submitted, you are going to correct what you have legislated when you put the tail in the legs because we have taken care of that you have given politicians the opportunity to have offshore. And you had to bring in a regulation that the Prime Minister said from the Step of the House that they are very strict and now they are running away from hiding. If it is about correcting your legislative intervention after offshore, then we want to have an explanation. Because as it is written no one understands it. I want you to tell Parliament, so that Members know what they will vote on. That was my clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u232	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u233	Firstly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I do not have a tail, and therefore I cannot put it in my arms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u234	The government, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u235	And the government. I don't know any government official or any member of this House having a tail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u236	That's too big.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u237	Now, as far as the substance is concerned, you've probably been ahead of time and found an alibi to then invoke what I'm about to say. You said you didn't have time to read it. That's exactly what happened. This does not concern the relevant supporting documents to be put before the committee in order to check contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u238	How will these documents be?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u239	It'll be computerized now. All these previous years have been submitted once, and now that they are submitted electronically, they are to facilitate control. As I told you, this is not the government, it is a request from the audit committee. It's not my initiative. I'm just finishing by saying I hope I never get a tail so I can put it in the legs. But if I had a tail, I don't get used to running away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u240	You did, though...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, as we all read out of hand the text of the amendment tabled by the Minister, it is indeed clear that what he adds is the obligation to submit the necessary documents, from which point of view the declared assets. This is in addition to the tax declaration and the E9 submitted. What I would say, Minister, is to explain to us how urgent it is in practice. And tell you why. What had happened with all these stories of "outside the world" is to continually accumulate obligations, which eventually end up in a dead end and no check is made. So wouldn't it make sense to discuss this in the next bill with the normal procedure? First of all, the New Democracy, I tell you in advance, is absolutely positive and we can vote for it. However, to come with an urgent amendment, all of a sudden, without seeing it, without putting it in the frame, without clarifying, if you like, the committee responsible for monitoring the framework and how it will be facilitated, I think it is even earlier. I think that after a week, in any case, the world has not broken and we can bring it within the bill properly. In that case, you could have our vote. In other words, we will go to the 'insurance'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u243	Mr Dendas, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you were in the previous Conference of Presidents the day before yesterday, when this issue was raised and an appeal was made by Mrs Christodoulopoulos as soon as possible to make an amendment so that the process of 'whereabouts' can proceed. I don't know if you were there and that's why I'm giving you this information. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u244	I, too, agree with Mr Tindemans that the gathering of documents is more difficult to control, despite making it easier. But, here, because this is the first time that the electronic submission of the'subjects' will be implemented, the audit mechanisms and especially the Black Money Laundering Committee want them, so that they can collect these papers for the first time in the database. Furthermore, the urgent procedure, as I said before in Mr Voridis's question, is because on 15 October the submission of 'whereabouts' begins, and we want to prevent this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u245	Don't you have another week?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u246	From what they told me, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I accept the Minister's statement. It's October 7th and it doesn't have time to come next week. We'll vote for it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u250	Thank you. We are moving on with the next special speaker, Mrs Marcus from the river. Mrs Marcus, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's bill comes from the government as part of the prerequisites for the payment of the next subsidization. Although the government has known for months that it must be completed, it finally came into the middle of the night and under the urgency procedure, because it must have been voted on by Monday. Already, due to the way in which air traffic controllers were presented suddenly, they have announced strike mobilisations, so that they are in danger of paralysing the airports from Sunday and for four days, and internal and international flights, that is, tourism. Will you do something, Minister? Are you in consultation? To pass on to the substance, the story of the reorganisation of the PSC is old and indicative of how the reforms by the governments in our country are implemented successively. Separation of supervisory and regulatory powers by providing air navigation services is a clear obligation for our country, resulting from European law and regulations on the Single European Sky as early as 2014. We arrived in 2011, under the pressure of lenders, and with Law 3913, to finally take a first step towards harmonisation from the then government with the creation of two general addresses, theoretically autonomous. However, as the Commission had replied to a relevant question by Ms Miltiadis Kyrik in December 2014, the arrangement did not ensure the complete functional and organic separation of both objects. In any case, the current government is coming to complete what the previous governments have not done effectively, which you have, of course, then swept away when you were in the opposition. In this draft law, the regulatory and supervisory powers of the FMC in the field of air transport, air navigation and charges are transferred to the new independent civil aviation administration, which will also operate as an economic regulator of the air transport market. At the same time, the OLAF is restructured and will operate as an autonomous public service, with responsibility for the provision of air navigation and airport management services, while under its control and the regional airports that have not been transferred or granted to individuals. The U.S.A. with its existing structure hides many pathogens. Despite efforts and the conscientiousness of its employees, it has been repeatedly pointed out by the workers themselves that maintaining the current structure creates a non-transparentity in the management of economics, accumulates obligations to suppliers, cancels critical investments and undermines procedures, systems and infrastructure vital for the safety of flights and the smooth functioning of the Single European Sky. It is obvious that the division in both services cannot in itself solve these problems. The issue of separation of powers may seem to be settled with the bill, but here we are not talking about paper exercises. The aim is to ensure the essential self-sufficiency, the economic viability and autonomy of these critical services by political interventions in favour of national security and the national economy. That is why our criticism in committee has focused on the points which seem to create a newly-motivated superpower of structures within both departments. Initially, there are points where the PSC is again confusing with the PSC, with regard to regulatory and supervisory competence to improve and control their financial operation. In four articles, 13, 18, 57 and 60, it refers to the competence of the Economic Regulator with another body responsible at a time. The Panhellenic Airport Association has also identified points where regulatory powers remain in the OSH, Articles 61, 62 and 63. As regards the airport charges supervisory authority, the Minister did not tell us what rationale this authority assumes the supervision and monitoring of the execution of the contracts, the concession of the regional airports to ‘Fraport’. I'm going through the matter of organograms. The existing U.S. structure is huge, with eighteen addresses and a hundred twenty-five sections. The result was a shape that could not work, as it is subordinated and combines objects that come into conflict with each other. The new flexible APA comprises one Directorate-General, 12 addresses, five self-employed offices, sixty-five departments, twenty-two offices, two supervisory authorities and the Air Force School, each address with its Director, each department with its department. The even more flexible PSC also acquires a second sub-command, three directorates-general, nineteen addresses and departments and offices, countless. Furthermore, it is not possible to increase administratively the aviation authority of an airport with a movement of 15 million passengers, such as Athens, or five million, such as Thessaloniki, with the aviation authorities of 1/10 of the traffic, nor to degrade airports with international traffic in simple offices such as Ioannina. You realise that responsibilities and demands are completely different. Perhaps, of course, this whole reorganization will lead to a reduction in total expenditure. But here we are confronted with another example of the curiosity and unjustified bias, with which this bill was filed, the complete absence of economic evidence, as is seen in the General Accounting Report. How will Parliament assess the scope and administrative value of your intervention without financial data? Yesterday the Minister said that these structures had the approval of 'ICAO' and would provide financial evidence proving both the reduction of costs and the reduction of structures. We're still waiting. In addition to increasing structures, the bill obviously helps to reduce unemployment, and some fifteen posted officials are being set up as advisors to the new governors and subordinates. But is it possible for the commander not to have his trustees? Obviously, there is the same concern, which had another Minister in the past few days, that it is being undermined by 'bad' civil servants. So five trusted counsellors, the two lawyers, despite the existence of a piece of legal support, and two trusted journalists, for public relations and a press office. All of this with the law. Gallagher is the bill and with the outside staff of the regional airports. From 800 euros to 1000 euros a month for renting a house or a hotel. Almost doubling and retroactively since June 1st. To say here that in order for a doctor to go to a health center on an island, the municipality and the residents to pay him the rent, the state does not give them 1500 euros. Everything is a matter of priorities. Another issue I raised yesterday is the choice of the three directors-general. Each Director shall be selected by another system in accordance with the relevant Articles. In fact, only in APA, the Director-General shall be explicitly selected in an objective and non-discriminatory manner, in accordance with Law No.4369/16 on the register of directors. So the rest of the two can be chosen in an unobjective or inconsistent manner? You should explain it to us a little. Another crucial point, which has not been sufficiently explained, is Article 65 relating to revenue from EUROCONTROL. Let me remind you that part of these, 120,000,000 euros, reports the General Accounting Office of the State. The rest of the month went to public revenue, which is abolished. Also, I would remind you that with ministerial decisions another part of it was going to the DPRK to pay off the debt. A new distribution of fees between the two new agencies is introduced here, 80% in the OSCE and 20% in the OSCE, without any explanation for the rationale. Why not 50% -50% or 90% -10%? Does the distribution ensure the financial autonomy and viability of the two new services? Is EUROCONTROL in line with the regulations? Finally, as far as staff are concerned, there are still many blurred points both in terms of both levels and in terms of distribution. You say no one will be fired. We consider that to be self-evident. But where will those people who are already serving go? Are they staying at the D.A.? Are they going to the APM? Tell us the truth. Is there going to be a difference in pay, in insurance, in one day? What step are they going to go to? Same or different? You cannot, for a very long time, introduce a provision for transfers, transfer of personnel without any criteria and by way of derogation from all the provisions and think that you have cleaned up, nor with a general authorisation, which the Scientific Service of Parliament says should be recast - so as to avoid saying that we are badly trusted. In the end, you have never responded to the organograms what you have created. How many employees will serve? So you understand why all of this causes distrust and reservations as to the effectiveness and functionality of the change you are trying to make. These are points which must either be corrected or clarified, if we want to talk about a serious legislative effort, otherwise in another five years we will discuss the same. I would also like to refer to the statements made by the operators yesterday, and I hope you have had the time to study them. Are you going to make some changes acceptable? For example, telecomers say that Article 70 replaces them with the operation of AFIS, is supposed to be with air traffic controllers, but ultimately even with ICU officials with a two-month training. At the same time, they themselves, in order to do their job, must have a health certificate, while undergoing additional training. This is a purely operational object with staff fully specialised and scattered at all the airports in the country and we would like you to see their comments more carefully. Of course, according to your dear method, there are no and no provisions missing, i.e. urgent, such as the new preparedness payment system for the EITT spectrum, where you copy - you say - the doctors' newspapers system. You are trying to transfer to telecommunications a model, which is generally problematic and antiquated, which has led to the condemnation of our country by European courts and which, of course, has little to do with the technical supervision of the spectrum. Ladies and gentlemen, the separation of the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities of the FMC from the Air Navigation and Airport Services while ensuring the autonomy of the two new services is an important institutional necessity, beyond a European cheque. Whether this separation, as it is being attempted here, will bring the expected benefits to the operation and safety of air transport, is a matter that will be judged in practice. It will depend on its will and every government to understand the importance of the industry and to stay away from intervention and political games. Parliament's control will be permanent and relentless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. Mr. Konsolas, Mr. Mitarakis and Mr. Kamatos had asked for the floor in a previous session. After Mr. Metarakis, Mr. Cameroon was not in the Chamber. If he wishes to be able to give the floor on staff for reasons of equal conduct between colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u253	No, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u254	All right, let's move on. After Mrs Marcos, the rapporteur for the ANE, Mr Lazarides, has had the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, air transport is one of the most important sectors in the air transport sector. Having regard to its responsibility for the whole control of air traffic, aircraft and national security but also for commercial reasons, the need for a smooth handling of this issue was urgent. In the draft law on the restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service, which we are called upon to discuss, two separate services are expected to be created under state control and under the supervision of the Ministry, since the existing organisational structure of the Ministry, as resulting from the existing legislation, no longer meets the current requirements for navigation and air transport. The Civil Aviation Authority will have as its task the exercise of regulatory, regulatory and supervisory powers in the field of air transport, air navigation and airport charges, as well as an economic regulator of the air transport market. It will be an independent public service. The current RDP is also being restructured, as an independent public service, which will now be the provider of air navigation and airport management services. It will also have, under its control, regional airports which will not come to the Fraport consortium. The new Agency will maintain its public status and will have separate administration and staff from the current PSC. With regard to the twenty-three regional airports which are not privatised, the bill provides that they will pass to the new supranationalisations. However, their management will remain in the PSC. In passing the provisions of the draft law, the Independent Civil Aviation Authority is set up in the first chapter and its administrative structure is in detail regulated. The functioning of the Authority shall be complemented by the Directorate-General for Regulations and Surveillance, which shall be supervised by the Governor and the Executive Board and which shall be subject to ten four addresses. The relevant articles describe in detail the responsibilities of these addresses in order to achieve a distinct role of oversight by the Agency. Finally, civil aviation supervisory authorities coordinate a new body of inspectors and reshape and modernise the existing one, including airport inspectors and air navigation inspectors. It is also foreseen that each airport is to be established at the level of a department or office, depending on the passenger traffic of the airport, which has a supervisory and regulatory role in respect of the application of the rules of Air Law, as described in Greek Community and international legislation. The second and largest chapters are defined in detail the restructuring, purpose and structure of the Civil Aviation Service, PSU. The proposed arrangements of Articles 26 to 65 shall establish the Executive Board of the Civil Aviation Service, lay down the manner of appointment and the responsibilities of the Director of the HRP, define the manner of appointment and the responsibilities of the Sub-Committee for Air Navigation, the manner of appointment and the responsibilities of the Deputy Director of Airports and Waters, the structure and responsibilities of the Administrative Support Office and of the Sub-Committee for Quality Control and Compliance, the structure and responsibilities of the Legal Services and Internal Audit, the structure and responsibilities of the Directorate-General for Administrative, Economic and Technical Support, and the responsibilities of the Management and Coordination of Economic Support and Coordination of Technical Conservation Policy and Planning of Emergency. In the section of Articles 45 to 57, the structure and structure of the Directorate-General for Air Navigation Services and the responsibilities of the directorates-general and departments concerned shall be defined. As regards Article 58, the structure and structure of the Directorate-General for Airports and Waters and their responsibilities are defined and the structure of the Directorate-General for Air Navigation Services and the responsibilities of its directorates-general and departments are defined in the section of Articles 59 to 63. Chapter C, Articles 66 to 77 shows the transitional, the originating and various other provisions of the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service. The authorisation shall be granted to regulate by a Presidential Decree on matters, inter alia, the staffing structure of the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Authority, the financing and financial management of such matters, the allocation, management and reimbursement of allowances and the compensation of personnel of the Civil Aviation Service. In Chapter IV, the three articles introduce provisions outside the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service. The proposed provision of Article 78 amends the provisions of Article 12 of Law 4070/2012 on the powers of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Postal in electronic communications. The necessary legislative arrangements are introduced in order to resolve the issue of the payroll of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, which is responsible for protecting all networks directly related to the safety of air transport. Finally, with regard to fees for EuroCONTROL flights, about EUR 120 to EUR 150 million per year, they will only be directed to the operators of civil aviation in accordance with international regulations and will therefore be able to continue to modernise them, and so far they are directed to other sectors of the public. Ladies and gentlemen, both the airspace control and the administration of airports by public services has been ensured, ensuring state control and jobs. This bill was accepted almost universally and I am referring to the agencies, which reflects the government's successful efforts. The Independent Greeks support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Ioannis Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association will not play either today or today. The bill is useful. Any shortcomings that might concern us in the future will concern us in the future, but for the time being it gives us solutions not only to the PSC as a service, not only in the evaluation negotiations, but mainly because it does everything it can in these difficult economic circumstances to keep away from national risks. My position is about the following three-dimensional conclusions and is also the approach of the Central Association. We could vote in favour of this bill, because we simply don't open the back door to Turkish aggression. We could vote in favour of this bill, because we do not privatise the Greek sky. And we could vote in favour of this bill, because we do not fire people or dismantle the Civil Aviation Agency. The bill to be voted on has been considered as much better, given the minimum time available, which we really do not understand, Mr Minister, why you are disturbing our mental peace and our availability for dialogue. It has therefore been examined by constantly holding a main thought: Greece, Cyprus and so Europe have a neighbour of Turkey, a country that is becoming more and more into barbarism every day. Today's bill, including very serious issues, deals mainly with the very sensitive issue of the management of our national airspace. So to understand the challenges and difficulties we face in the Greek sky, for which we are called upon to legislate here today, we should first consider what is going on in the Greek territories and what is going on in the Greek seas with this approach. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, Cyprus - as well as European territories - are currently in Turkish occupation. Turkey has clearly demonstrated, with its courage and abundance, its intentions to seize international circumstances and circumstances in a intimate manner, in order to restore its claim for the stay of Turkish occupying troops in the bloody territories of Cyprus as a condition, in particular, of any solution to the Cyprus problem. That's all in our territory. On the other hand, in the Greek waters of the south-eastern Mediterranean, we are all seeing and knowing what kind of behaviour Turkey is conducting. In the Aegean, the "syllable" and "friend" Turkey showed its true face. No serious person today doubts whether Turkey is in fact able to control migration flows in the Aegean. Clearly, he's able to control them. Undoubtedly it controls the flows of immigrants in the Aegean, this is a fact. And it also opens up the canneau of these flows, in order to maintain the irresistible rhetoric, that Greece is not supposedly capable of controlling its maritime borders and therefore Europe's borders. What Turkish diplomacy attempts to present as Greek weakness is nothing but proof that we know calmly to distinguish the true enemy, the true enemy, the real danger. Greece is therefore not at risk from the refugees drowning in the Aegean. They are not Greek enemies, refugees and immigrants. The only thing that is at risk of being lost in the Aegean, apart from human lives, is the prestige, honour and reputation of Europe. The fate of these people is in Greek and therefore in European hands. Culture and humanity do not even allow us to think about drowning people. And we never let Greece drown in the sea. This ancient Greek maritime tradition has so far been the basis of International Maritime Law, a law that Turkey has never accepted and never signed. And we need to take this into account in the vote on today's draft law, which, among other things, harmonises Greece with Europe and international good practices, as they arise from studies by world organisations to protect aviation. Ladies and gentlemen, no European citizen no longer believes that NATO's presence was the reason why the flows were stopped. Erdogan's regime decides how many will try to cross the Greek islands. This courage, therefore, shown by Turkey on the one hand in the territories of Hellenism, on the other hand on the eve of Hellenism, is nothing in the face of the courage that it would show, if we allowed it, in the Greek sky and thus in the European sky. Greek generations grew up by learning and well aware of the phrase "Greek fighters of our Air Force have intercepted Turkish aircraft that violated the FIR Athens". I wonder how many more generations of Greeks will grow up listening to these phrases every day in the Greek news releases. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek and hence the European sky has rules to apply, rules that Turkey is violating every day. These are two truths, with which not only pilots, engineers and technicians of our Air Force live every day, but also the employees of the Civil Aviation Agency. So the bill under discussion, we examined it in particular in this light and in relation to everything that I said about the neighbour's insanity. Today, then, we are not just discussing the future of the Hellenic airspace and the management of the Greek airspace, but one of the pillars of our national sovereignty. I must therefore make it quite clear that nothing within this draft law puts the Greek sovereignty of national airspace at risk. On the contrary, strengthening the operation of the Athens FIR is in the absolutely positive direction, and that is why, as we said, we could vote in favour of the bill at first sight. I move to the second part of my conclusions, in which I have found that this bill will leave everything in the hands of the Greek State and in a way that does not allow our lenders to insist more in the future, in their absurd and irresponsible request, to privatise the Greek sky. It is true that lenders have asked very early to privatise the Aegean airports and the Aegean sky and it is also true that the PASOK and New Democracy governments had retreated to this request, with a 2011 Act providing for the establishment of an anonymous company that would take over the management of our national airspace. This says a lot about the famous 'line' put by Officerial Response colleagues when they speak of use. Fortunately, this has not been the case, and so today's Civil Aviation will succeed two new public bodies with distinct roles, achieving the necessary separation between the supervisor and the supervised one, between the auditor and the controlled one. The reality of the complex property regime of our country's airports, as it has shaped in the years of the crisis, imposes, in order to protect the public interest, the creation of effective control and supervision structures for the entire Greek territory. Eleftherios Venizelos Airport has mixed ownership status, as it is the result of a partnership between the public and private sectors. The fourteen regional airports were granted exclusively to individuals. Here are the waters and other airports, such as Kastelli, Iannina and elsewhere. It was necessary, then, for this separation to be shaped. That is one reason why we must stress. We do not deliver the Greek heavens to the mountains of anyone, and we do not privatise anything. The third and last reason we have been judging from the outset that we could support today's bill is the fact that there is no dissolution of the existing structure, but we will build on it without in the middle of risking jobs. In Greece of 2016 we must be very careful when talking about even a job. All studies conclude that each worker helps to maintain even three others' survival limits, let alone when we talk about the future of the two and a half thousand workers in the U.S. The relevant provisions had some ambiguities and a few gaps, which the Minister promised would cover with the legislative improvements. We are waiting until the end of today's meeting for the Minister to cover us with the legislative improvements he will bring. In any case, we are here to exercise parliamentary control and stand by the workers who may be affected by their rights. Minister, if and - as you can see - we recognize the good news of the bill, we did not agree either with the urgency procedure, but with the details, according to which the new transition to the new situation in the area of Greek air transport will take place. We must also consider the financial costs of the new independent body. It is obvious that the 20 addresses, offices, supervisory authority and the school of ADP as well as its executive board should be staffed with numerous and specialised staff, while only forty air authority departments at airports will make their operating costs high. It is regrettable that we are called upon to vote on the creation and operation of a high requirement for a body, with the General Accounting Office of the State stating that it cannot assess its costs, since the relevant Ministry did not send the necessary information. So, with a view to correcting what we can do, even retrospectively, because life goes on after Monday's Eurogroup, we are saying that we will vote against the following articles, which will have to be understood. This is the ambiguity of Article 5, where we do not understand the lack of a reference and specific provision for inspectors. Apart from the supervisors you're reporting, why don't you tell us what's going on with the inspectors? Do you not recognize their existence and their distinct role? Article 17 makes it clear that you are choosing to ignore the Regulation of the European Union under number 139/2004, where, according to him, the Directorate for Regulations and Supervision should be responsible, which, for some reason, seems to be also limited by this ambiguity, and perhaps the role and scope of its powers may be altered, which will bring us up against Europeans and be right. This is not the time to feed them for comments with our omissions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. We will also vote against Article 24, because we want a different approach to the four largest airports in the country, namely the International Airports of Thessaloniki, Rhodes, Heraklion and, of course, the capital. You must also see this, Minister, especially in relation to the operational need to create addresses for these four airports and not just offices. Finally, Articles 61, 62 and 63 have no choice but to vote against them, as their ambiguity about the very serious issues of the operation of unauthorised airports allows confusion and misunderstandings, which is unacceptable for such a serious bill. What will happen with the other airports will be a matter that I predict will create tensions. We must be careful about what we are going to do with the other regional airports. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that the three authorities for us, for which we could vote for this bill - and this must be made clear - are that we do not hand over the Greek sky to the Turks, we do not privatise its management, we do not sack people from the PPS. We are waiting for legislative improvements on the part of the Minister, to see exactly how we stand at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how two students and students are organized, as well as three trainers from the 26th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister Skourletis is present and will support the amendment - supplementing the provisions of Article 143 of Law 4001/2011, as they apply to the Special Energy Account. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was already well known when we discussed the bill on the prerequisites for disbursement of the sub-dose that there would be an amendment concerning the deficit of the Special Account for RES, which is related to the burden on all of us in the accounts, domestic and professional. What we need to know is that the lack of a serious plan to infiltrate the Renewable Energy Sources has led to distortions over the past few years and a deficit that exceeds EUR 350 million and can touch all 400 million. On this we had to give an answer and we tried it in a decisive way in the bill that we passed in August with Law 1414. I want to remind you what we did there. We have said that it is not the only one who will pay for this deficit to be the consumers and we have anticipated the introduction of a new special fee on supply, so that in a medium-term perspective we can reach the coverage of this deficit. The agreement we had with the institutions provided - not at the law level - for this deficit to be covered by June 2017. However, this would mean that we would have to go to new increases, despite the introduction of the new fee on supply, which will come to cover without charges for consumers. We avoided this, and that was why it did not come last time and this amendment is now coming, which extends the time within which we are obliged to cover the deficit of the Special Account of the RES by 31 December 2017. At the same time, we expect there to be a continuous evaluation mechanism so that this deficit can be closed every three months by the UNHCR which manages this account. We did not, therefore, want - and we avoided it - to go to new burdens on consumers or, of course, to make a new 'cut' to those who currently hold a corresponding business in connection with the Renewable Energy Sources, whether they are photovoltaic or windy. I think, therefore, that we are actually coming today to do the best possible something that the previous governments dared not touch. We have been handed over a very large deficit. Based on the changes we have made, we believe that at the end of December 2017 we will have balanced the corresponding account. I want to say that we need to bear in mind that choosing support and aid for RES is a key option in our energy strategy. At the same time, it is a strategic choice of Europe itself. This cannot, of course, be done in the way it has been done so far, with terrible over-performances, with guaranteed state over-performances, which have led to the known deficit and the known distortions. And I would remind you that it is no coincidence that the resolution of the previous bill last August, at the beginning of August, before the House closed, was accepted by all the parties involved. This is the first time that we touched a hot potato and were not found under the Ministry either protesters, photovoltaic owners or protesters. I think, therefore, that we are also going right in this area and with this amendment, we are finally starting to resolve a very critical issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I would like to ask something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u262	On the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u264	Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u265	Minister, you said that until this special fee is made on the commission, the EMSMAR is regulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u266	It's introduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u267	It is introduced, but until this works, the EMCDDA will pay for it by consumers. Who's gonna pay him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u268	Ask the question and I will answer if the President can give me the right to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u269	Who will be charged by the end of 2017 for extending this deadline. Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u270	I'll tell you. Obviously, I may not be understood by what I said. There is now a charge. We don't raise her and say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u271	You extend it until the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u272	What do we "prolong it"? I'm barely there. We're introducing a new fee on the commission. Those producing electricity will cover this deficit gradually by the end of December 2017. We are doing exactly what you say to us in your question, indeed respecting the difficult position of Greek households and Greek businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u273	So you're reducing it to the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u274	The end remains as it is. It's not growing, even though we have a huge deficit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u275	What are we adjusting? Because we are not sceptical about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u276	We are currently saying that, by the end of December, the special account must have been balanced and, as of 1 January 2017, this new fee is being entered. This was to cover a certain percentage in any case. We are regulating this precisely. However, I repeat that what we are avoiding and has enormous social significance now is that we do not go to new burdens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u277	Isn't the new fee a burden?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u278	It's on the commission, I repeat. It has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u279	No interactive conversation, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u280	Suppliers are charged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u281	You'll take the floor. That's not the conversation. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u282	I wish you'd done better and there wasn't the deficit you inherited us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u283	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u284	That's why we brought you to "do it better".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u285	That's why we're here to do better. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u287	Are you asking for the floor on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u288	For a clarification, I would ask Mr. Skourlet. I am trying to understand how the 350 million-dollar deficit came about. I didn't get it. Forgive me. I am also trying to understand whether the previous deficit or the special account will be covered by the special account from now on by the providers, so that the EMSMAR and renewables sector can be refined, but the fate of 350 million is not clear to me what it will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Theoharopoulos, will you speak of the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u290	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u291	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u292	Minister, we would like a clarification. Page 4 of the table of repealed and amended provisions and in relation to the question that has been asked by the rapporteur of the Communist Party, refers to the current and new provision. The current charge is ‘The charge in this case is gradually imposed on freight representatives as follows: For 2016 it amounts to 50% of the charge resulting from the application of the methodology, for 2017, to 75% and to 2018 and thereafter to 100%’. The new provision states: ‘The charge in this case is gradually imposed on the cargo representatives as follows: For 2016 it amounts to 50% and over 2017 and 100% thereafter’, and it said 75% before 2017. Our question is clear and we would like you to give an answer. We see that in the current provision it says 75% for 2017, while in the new provision 100% applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Teddy, on the New Democracy side, who will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, Mr. Screkas will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u295	Here you go, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we want to believe you, we want to believe that you are trying to do good, but that your actions do not leave us, because your actions show you evil. Think and do wickedly. We must make that clear today in this Chamber. A few months ago you brought some provisions, which we supported and voted on. They were provisions which would close the hole created in the UN special account, from which producers of renewable energy sources are paid. We told you then that the way you're going to do it, you're creating a problem with the whole system. Why? Why are you transferring it to suppliers who enjoy a greater margin, due to the drop in the system limit price, due to the entry into the multi-renewable tank. So you say that a part of this larger margin of profit - that's right - should make it a contribution back so that RES producers can get paid. But we told you that, in the way you do, it is not clear. PPC is currently the largest supplier in the country, which has a market share of 90% of electricity. In fact, in the committee responsible, Mr President, I asked the Vice-President of PPC a clear question as to whether PPC can absorb these around 350 million euros, which, as a supplier of 90% of Greece, should contribute to the tank if it can cope with it. He said PPC has no chance of taking this cost. So what it will do is transfer these extra costs to consumers. So what did the government go to do? What did the Minister go to do? It has essentially gone to mock the citizens, saying that it will not increase the EMCDDA, this special fee paid by consumers of electricity, and that it will be paid by suppliers who make a greater profit. But suppliers, namely PPC, have come and said that we will transfer this to consumers. So he tried to make fun of the world. Go ahead and say that then he fooled the world. Today he brings an amendment, which says what about the substance? That at the end of the day the provision we introduced and that would cover the hole is not enough. So the RAE should come and adjust the EMCDDA to eliminate the deficit. How's that gonna happen? Elevating EMEAAR. So the government and will increase the price to the consumer, through the price increase with which suppliers sell to consumers, but the RAE will also come, which will review upwards again - twice - the EMSMAR to cover the account and the deficit created. Right now, it turns out the masks are falling. It stops mocking and it turns out that the government is simply trying to move the problem to the next. What's he saying here? That in 2017 every quarter - and not every semester - RAE will come and calculate whether there is a hole in the account and will increase the EMCDDA. I am afraid, Mr President, that in 2017 the present SYRIZA - ANEL Government will no longer be a government. What they are trying to do, to earn time, is to transfer all the problems to the next ones, just like PPC's huge problem. That's what they're trying to do, and they don't give a solution. Citizens pay for the frustration and refusal of the government to give clean solutions to the problems of the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u297	Minister, do you want the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it was rightly pointed out that there was a differentiation in relation to the increase in the fee that we provided for in the previous law, which from 75% to 100%, the fee for the commission. And that is exactly what is happening to avoid the burden that the non-injurious thinking, Mr. Skrekas, wants to charge us as an intent. We have to be clear. Questions are relentless. Should this account be closed? The Energy Regulatory Authority, which is independent - I imagine you are defending its independence, in the model you have for the operation of the energy market, the autonomous role of the Energy Regulatory Authority - must be guaranteed. It must identify those mechanisms to cover the deficit. You don't want the deficit to exist? Do you want the people who have invested after five, six years? So what do you want? You've done a mess. You have delivered a situation characterised by a complete irrationalism. We're trying to put order and you're telling us we're thinking wickedly. I don't see evil on you. I see inability to understand reality. And I see a sterile opposition mood. Because you don't have anything to say about it. Because you did not have a specific alternative, which would be efficient. We're the ones who testify. There is another issue right now. We are also increasing that percentage of money that we receive from the rights of carbon dioxide certificates, we reach it at 72%, because that is where the special account deficit is covered. But what's going on? The final result is multimetric. It depends first of all on demand. If we have 1% increase in demand for electricity, it is certain that there is no way that these measures will not yield. If we have an increase in pollutant certificates, we'll still have a surplus, not just a cover. In no case, however, are we ready to do what you, lightly, have actually supported here, to impose an increase in EMCDDA on consumers. That was the easy solution you made. So we won't do that. We have social sensitivity and a plan, which resolves the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u299	I would ask that the debate be concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u300	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u301	Yeah, but the Minister won't talk again, because we're leaving the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I would like the floor on personal grounds, because the Minister has distorted what I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u303	Here you go, Mr. Screka, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, the Minister said two things. Firstly, that the New Democracy as a government has handed over a mess and, secondly, that it does not want the present government to increase the EMFF. In the first case, I will simply remind the Minister that the previous government has received a break of about EUR 1 billion a year...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u305	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u306	From the previous government, which, unfortunately, put many producers into the system without planning. Then came the New Democracy and the previous government, taking over great political costs, and making the 'new deal', reduced the turf to producers - and you have to admit that it did this - and that is how we managed to reduce the hole over a year, eliminate it. The government has come right now and says it will not increase the EMSMAR. Since we do not need to increase EMRP, let the Minister go out and say that what they had voted on will be a place and that we will not raise a single euro in the EMRP. Let's go out and say it today, believe him and vote. Get out to state that it won't need a minute to raise EMCDAAR in the first quarter of 2017. To say it here today with boldness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u307	The debate must be completed. We are moving forward with the draft legislation. I propose that a parliamentary representative and two Members speak. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u308	I did not hear the answer from the Minister in my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u309	I can't force him to answer you. Answer it. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u310	He's right. I'm sorry, I missed it. It is about the total accumulated deficit. So we're talking zero. We don't put the 350 million in the refrigerator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, too. To speak a parliamentary representative and two MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u312	The MPs should speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u313	Why are you making this distribution of parliamentary representatives and Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u314	Because we have agreed that Members should speak and intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u315	But, anyway, fourteen Members are to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u316	Since the Members of Parliament do not want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u317	If you want, suggest it. I have no objections. In other words, first Members should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u318	Let the House be heard and then they have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u319	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Papadopoulos, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. It is a bill that, while you were saying - from the periphery and it seems - 'will be sold', 'will not be sold', 'you will sell' all the time, we arrive now when the bill is submitted and it seems that nothing is sold. It is with another question and again the New Democracy says 'you will put taxes, you will not put taxes'. We say 'no taxes', 'no, you will put taxes'. Hey, take care of it now. How do we convince you it's not for sale? We have brought a whole bill here and you do not say that what the government said is doing, and that this bill is not sold while you want to sell. And what seems to be that by the law you had prepared, Mr.3913/2011, you were ready to delegate the management. Instead of referring to yourself, you're trying to convince us and pressure us to sell. That was your target. It seems, however, that this government has not done so. You were talking about the airspace. I have heard a colleague say 'we shall vote if you do not give the airspace to Turkey'. Where did my colleague see that now? In other words, we must be a little serious and be able to have a constructive dialogue. We can't have that dialogue by throwing rockets. And there is a dialogue, not on the basis of the substance. In other words, we ate the time yesterday in committee as to whether it was urgent. When we no longer have a point of order, we are going on a point of order to confront the government. But this does not really help dialogue. It is worth noting that with this legislation, our country continues to maintain state control over air transport, as well as the management of the twenty-fifth regional airports. It is particularly important to understand that air traffic control in our country, as well as management, continues, as today, to be carried out by a purely public service. Of course, when you try and modernize and gather uncomplicated, you want some time. Of course, money is needed. Of course, the government has all that in mind. I have heard from colleagues who, until yesterday, were blaming the government today - he says - it goes without saying that the workers will not lose their jobs. Of course they won't lose their job. Of course, a number of issues are self-evident and we should be able to have them at the forefront and support them. I would also like to pay tribute to the colleague, Minister, that he eventually took place under public control.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u321	We're moving on to socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u322	That's the way we go. And let's say something else. Now I am given the opportunity - and it is good that there is a live dialogue - to tell you that I had met people from housewives in New Democracy. But you see, you're not housewife here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u323	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u324	Why? In my village they say "you didn't clean the plate". Because you owe and you don't pay. Let us say the following difference for you and for PASOK. This is where you'll have to tell us if you pay and how you pay. Because it is not up to everyone today to owe, to pay, to arrange for you not to pay. You have recently taken out the Attica Bank scandal for SYRIZA, and you took another 14 million of them. You will have to answer the Greek people what is going to happen with this money. Are you going to pay? Are you guys cheating? You don't want to pay? I see the Minister, my colleague, here. When he was about to sell the Olympics, he was shattered to say the state pays a million a month and what will happen with Olympiacos. He finally sold it and got it. So, how much competition does he have in him? Your pleasure's not hiding when you're going to sell. It is what they say on the stock exchanges, 'poo, sell'. What are we supposed to do? - We're not selling. We have another plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis, for legislative improvements. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr. Papadopoulos. That's enough! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u326	In order for Members to come in to place themselves - and they have asked for clarification from yesterday - we are putting forward legislative improvements. I won't read them. In order to facilitate the services of this House, we have also put in whole articles to incorporate them into the text of the law. I shall mention, however, the most important ones which have also been mentioned in the positions. In Article 76 it is the legislative improvement of number 7 requested by Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Saridis in relation to the workers. The fact that they have priority obviously - we have said it a hundred times - does not lose a job, but backwards - and retain their working and insurance rights. It is clear that there is no problem at all. The same applies to Article 71, which defines the procedure for the movement of workers from the Civil Aviation Service to the new body, the APA, and transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u327	What do you put in Article 71?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u328	It was requested to clarify matters for the service councils and all the others. Listen, when we have a Service and basically we do two Services, we do not do some independent authority, as the opposition parties say, we need to define those procedures with which this can be done directly, not in three years' time. So we cannot wait until the service councils and all the other structures are established, so that we can move forward with the establishment of agencies. But we expect - and we have said yesterday in committee - that the Presidential Decree will be adopted first and then these movements will be made. First we'll have the traits and the rest, then. Legislative improvements for large airports have also been submitted - it has been set up by institutions and representatives of the parties - such as Thessaloniki, Heraklion and others. Sections become sub-directions. It is also planned - from the major issues that have been raised and from the proposals and clarifications put forward by the institutions - to improve the legislation in Articles 8, 11, 13,14 and 16. I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u329	Thank you. The next speaker, Mr Hatzidakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today the most thorny issue of the first assessment is resolved, the Civil Aviation Service. It is an issue that has obviously been arousing the Minister for a year ago and solved, since the insurance policy has been dealt with before, and at the last moment, before the closure of the evaluation, this is also the issue. That's a great success for the government and the ministry! But, beyond that, there are some issues we need answers here. The first issue, which concerns both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. On four points the report of the General Accounting Office of the State states that no data have been provided by the Ministry in order to draw up, as usual, the report of the General Accounting Office, to see if there is a budgetary burden, what is the impact of this draft law? We can't get through this like this. We cannot, on the one hand, talk about respect for the institutions, the Constitution, and on the other hand, of the ministries operating in this way. Minister, I hope you will give an answer to this. Secondly, there are a number of arrangements in this bill that are referred to in the future. Very important issues, in relation to the distribution of resources, the distribution of allowances, the selection criteria for staff, are referred to in the future, and at the same time there is a reconstruction of the Civil Aviation Service. Why is it going on? Was it absolutely necessary? It was not necessary and it was demonstrated by the official documents of the correspondence between the governments and the Troika, the texts of the memorandum. The issue was settled with the so-called AEDIPA, the Anonymous Company for the Management of Regional Airports. Because SYRIZA wanted to abolish it, at the end, because of this obsession, it brings here this bill, which creates the turmoil that everyone sees, those at least having read the provisions of the bill. And that was really absolutely inappropriate. But I also come to a third point, which I consider to be the most important. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have seen how to choose the governors and subordinates of the PSC any more. It will be done by a committee involving two, three representatives of the European Flight Safety Authority, EASA. I ask the Minister: which other European Union country is this? In what other country does the Minister, the Government, the Parliament, decide on the choice of the Commander of the Civil Aviation Service, but a European authority? How would you say that if you were in the opposition? Would you say that or would you not say it assigning national sovereignty? And I am entitled to ask, after that, are you or are you not a government with limited responsibility, Minister? Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you have your responsibilities too. We can't leave here tonight and have voted for this provision. This provision must be withdrawn, otherwise you are accomplices to Mr Spirtzi. And here are clean bills. I should like to close, Mr President, by commenting on another point: Mr Spirzis came to the committee yesterday and told us about the government's victory. "We don't sell the air," he said. Of course, he's selling air himself, but I'm over it. ‘There will be no privatisation’. Well done, Mr. Spirtzi! Only you didn't tell us who asked for privatisation. Was it in the former government's program? Oh, no. Did the troika ever ask for it with us or with you? Oh, no. You have a logic of Hodja. You suddenly find enemies who do not exist and beat them. I don't know how you're working. You have campaigned with a logic of vigilance. You have succeeded in preventing privatisation, which was not on anyone's agenda. On the contrary, Mr Spirtzi, you have fortunately failed to prevent regional airports from being privatised, despite the fact that you were sad and weeped too much. You did not succeed in preventing the use of the old Airport of the Greek and soon, despite the declarations you made here in the House until a few months ago, you would not have prevented the concession contract of Enanatia. And thank God you will not have prevented all these developments! But all of this, which I have described before, shows what I have just noted, that you are nothing more than a government of limited responsibility and zero confidence, and the sooner you leave, the better for you, so that you do not go further, but of course for all Greek citizens!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u332	Yes, Minister, but on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u333	That is why I want the floor so that there are no inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u334	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u335	Mr Hatzidakis, I do not know if we are limited, but you have made limited information and information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u336	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u337	We are aware of your relations with the Brussels Service for years ago, but it would also be appropriate to read the texts of the draft law. What you described before in Stepma was what the institutions suggested about the choice of the commander and what did not pass through the negotiation that took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u338	He's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u339	I mean, some people were asking for the commander's choice to be made by a five-member board, the three of which would be outside, and we didn't accept it. What was finally decided - on our own proposal - is that a notice should be made. In fact, the two, three that you say were not from EASA, Mr Hatzidakis, were from Services from other states, agencies and other agencies, which have nothing to do with the European institutions. What we have finally achieved was after the proclamation - which is, I imagine, reasonable to everyone that it must be done for all positions - there must be a committee that has three of the Greek Government, two of EASA, which is the European Agency and is recommended to the Minister if the Minister agrees. Then we will bring it to Parliament, to the Civil Aviation Service, to the committee responsible and to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Because I have heard some statements about whether the commander will be Greek and have such concerns - now they have been remembered! - I'm telling you, he's obviously going to be Greek. Evidently the upper hand is held by the Greek Government and the Greek State. Obviously we are proud of this negotiation. Obviously, we're proud of all this. Tell everyone who tells you first to inform you about the final negotiation and the results we had and then to make such positions. In which other country, Mr. Hatzidakis? In all countries where the competent authorities such as those now under discussion are not public, they are not public services, they are private. It is what you wanted to do for the Civil Aviation Service, and it is what we prevented from today's draft law that we bring and will be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u340	Which country?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u341	All Europeans, where they are private, except France.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, let us have a dialogue, but Mr Pappas is waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u346	Minister, I really wonder why you took the floor. Don't you understand that with your position you underestimate yourself and the institution of the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u347	No, I didn't get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u348	You said now before the Greek Parliament that what I noted, EASA has participated in the selection of commander, is inaccurate...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u349	majority, you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u350	Then, on your own, you undo it. Here's the bill we're voting on, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u351	Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u352	... says “both members appointed by the European Aviation Safety Agency.” What else did I write before? You also did not reply, Mr Minister, where else this arrangement applies to a Member State of the European Union. You underestimate yourself and make the country a country of limited national sovereignty. I'd be expecting an apology, Mr. Spirtzi. An apology!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u353	Minister, for a minute, the answer cannot be discussed in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, we understand the pain and crying that the New Democracy has been having for so many years. The pain is not served by the policies and interests which wanted to privatise the market in our country and by the crying of those who supported it in all these policies and procedures. Mr. Hatzidakis said so himself. It had been arranged with AEDIDA. In other words, the privatisation of the remaining twenty-five regional airports, not only with it, but also with the closure of regional airports and the privatisation of the operation of the Civil Aviation Service through AEDIPA. Thank you so much for saying so!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Hatzidakis, it can't be. You realize that this thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u358	Only one reason, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u359	One reason means twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u360	Less. I would like to say that I really cannot follow the Minister any more. The conversation is now in the sphere of political surrealism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u361	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the form of urgent procedure, codecision today introduces an unacceptable and unprecedented piece of legislation in the parliamentary history of the place. A similar bill was tabled and voted on by the Greek Parliament on June 5, 1914, which provided for the concession of the Greek island of Sasson of the Istanbul - to mark, an island of strategic importance in the Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Closes of Otranto, off the port of Alona - in Albania. With this bill, you assign, you are actually selling the Greek airspace. We denounced it in order to prevent it. Fifteen days ago, our MP, Eleni Zaroulia, said so from this Step, wrote it, followed by a headline title and a detailed analysis in our newspaper "EMPROS" of 24 September, but unfortunately the Memorandum of Understanding SYRIZA - ANEL, with the support of the so-called opposition New Democracy, brought this indisputable bill of concession in essence of FIR Athens to private individuals, dismissing the basic right of a sovereign state to control and define air transport, air transport, its airspace, that is to say, its sovereign rights, if it wants to be a state - "Banana" as you, but also our home country in 2016. And when does that happen? It is at the time when you are preparing for an extra tax raid on the Greek, with your tax policy, which is clearly seen not only in the pocket and daily life of the people, but also in the draft 2017 budget that you have recently submitted to Parliament. There is a tsunami of extra taxes, direct and indirect, two and a half billion additional taxes, a reduction in the tax limit, a reduction in pensions, an endless blow to Greek entrepreneurship, to the biopalests, that is, they have a shop, which they keep with nails and teeth. You will impose on them an advance tax payment for 2017, 100%. Elevations are coming everywhere, in smoke, in cigarettes, and even in electronic cigarettes. Increase in excise duties, increase in fixed telephony. So you create very suitable conditions for investors. All of you say that hope is coming, investors are coming. Is that how investors come? This is how you want to rectify, as you say, the Greek economy, an economy that you have literally thrown on the rocks? You are absolutely responsible, you are co-responsible with the previous governments of the anti-grassian, memorial arc for this resentment of our home state. In the economic war of the European Union you flew a towel, lifted a white flag, despite all your announcements about the Memorandum, which "will cease to exist", which "will come hope", and at the same time beat and kneel Greek households, but also literally beat Greek old pensioners. At the moment, this time juncture, in this Chamber, noon on 6 October 2016, is taking place a terrestrial-sized scandal. The airspace of Greece is granted to a private company, which is assigned to the famous supermarket. In two words: SYRIZA's Left and the Right of ANELs sell our national independence in respect of another loan of their notorious, sinful and indebted parties. The officials of the memoranda thus also grant the continental shelf - think about it - since the continental shelf of the islands, with the new data that the bill brings, in essence, is abolished. The Government, with Mrs Spirtzi's Minister, who has just left and left you, Mrs Chrysovelonis, at his foot, has announced to the President of Civil Aviation that, on a mandate from the European Union, the control of FIR Athens will no longer be carried out by the Civil Aviation, but an anonymous company will be set up, which will be placed at the supranational level and granted to a private investor. This is not a new issue. It had started, so that New Democracy has not been lying since 2004, when Greece signed, as Mrs Zaroulia said, together with its European partners, Norway and Switzerland, the regulation of the single European organisation, Single European Sky. The effort you have made since that moment is to put the foreign sovereign on the inside of our country. In addition to the publications in the newspaper 'EMPROS' in addition to Mrs Zaroulia's references, it has been tabled by the speaker - unfortunately, Mr Spirtzis is missing - and a written question. We want today - because I doubt the Minister will answer us in writing - to answer us without political fait accompli from this step or from where you ministers are standing and you are not saying to get rid of it. We want him to answer us in a real and real way. I say you don't get rid of the chairs, because above all it's for you it's the chair and the money! To us it's homeland and honor! I said that the other day! It is true, it is true, which the Greek people see and judges, and it will appear very soon, whenever elections are held!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u363	Our place is here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u364	Don't interrupt me, Minister. You'll take the floor and you'll talk anytime. I'm putting the question in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On this issue, today's scandal, national treason, I would say, the reproach for the Greek Parliament, that is, the culmination of the dissolved role played and played by the destructive forty-two-year-old course of post-population in our country, by the expulsion of Greekity, by the persecution of every national and true, by the persecution of faith, the Greek Orthodoxy, you come not only to deprive our country, but also to sell it, a part. These are the famous investors you call for, as I have said before, left-wing and right-wing at every opportunity. Are they the ones who will take us to the Civil Aviation Service and determine our airspace? Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the questions, you few who are in this Chamber, but above all listen to them by the Greek people, who sees us from the channel of Parliament. What will be the impact of the exploitation, as you say, on our national security? Let the Minister answer. In crisis times - crisis with Turkey - what will be the role of the service provider? Are we leading to national concessions in the Aegean, through a regulation of the European Union? You, Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, who are absent, are welcomed that the FIR of Athens remains at the Civil Aviation Service. Are you kidding us, sir? Mr. Spirtzi, come in if you want to deal with us. Are you kidding us? What Civil Aviation and Control? The Civil Aviation Service is being demilitarised and its control - please listen - passes to an independent authority in which the Greek state cannot be involved. Is that a serious political reason? These verbal tricks - I am referring to Mr Spirtzi - are cut off and used where he is taken. I would also like to refer to two amendments which you have tabled at the last minute to urgent bills and against those agreed at the Conference of Presidents. You said there would be no amendment. We will vote against these amendments for a number of reasons. One is purely a collecting measure. I am making a note justifying why we are voting against it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The other amendment concerns the submission of statements of property and the 'outside'. I would like to ask the following question. If it had become a real one, as the Golden Dawn suggests, a mere comparison of the assets of the well-known politicians from the moment of their involvement with politics to date, it would have been easy to see that the increase in their total property has increased geometrically, without any legitimate reason. They tried to do it, and the previous ones, that is, they did a pass-off. They put all politicians in a "silloam squabble" and presented them with all angels and sinners. You'll do a pasaliment again to take all of them out. I am tabling a relevant note justifying the vote on the amendment on our behalf. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Spirtzi, I invite you, when you take the floor, not to try to use the known candy - you are no longer believed - that is, that this is what a bad racist, fascist and well-known graphics are saying. Because you are doing so with common sense, with the average Greek citizen tested. Reply, Mr Spirtzi, please to Vassilios Alevizopoulou, the President of the Civil Aviation Associations, who said yesterday specifically to the committee that 'the concession of the airspace is a demand for sovereign rights, and in particular it concerns the international corridor almost on the Turkish coast. You realise that if it passes into foreigners' hands and this corridor is granted, we should get permission to go to the Cyclades and the Dodecanese from Turkey." These are the words of Mr Alevizopoulou and not mine. He has twenty-eight years of experience in the Civil Aviation Service. I don't know if you're doing this lawful or unfair. Allow and sell our country. We, I repeat from the Stepma, fight for home and honour, fight together with the people for the people and call on the Greeks and Greeks to be alert, to stand on our side, at the side of the national opposition. We want to say, closing: Greek, quick. The enemy is inside the gates. Fight with us for freedom and dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Ilias Kasiri, from the Golden Dawn, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u366	The state-of-the-art SYRIZA - ANLL has granted de facto and the national airspace space of Greece and the sovereign rights of our country. There is no doubt either, as much as the former Pasoko is mobilised - and we do not know tomorrow what it might be - that you have granted de facto our sovereign rights, when the alleged Prime Minister of Greece, the head of SYRIZA, while heading towards Iran, was forced by Turkey not to cross Rhodes and go through Egypt. You have sold out everything in this country and against the arguments of the Golden Dawn you have never given an answer. This bill, therefore, continues this anti-national work of coexistence SYRIZA - ANEL, the anti-national task of transferring everything, not only control of FIR Athens, not only of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, which you refuse to enshrine - you and all the previous governments also refuse to recognise, as stated by International Law - not only Greek hydrocarbons, the Greek national property, not just water, infrastructure, all the neural services of the public, but everything in this country. They've been dived, they've been assigned, they've sold everything out in this country. The speaker said earlier on behalf of the Golden Dawn, what Mr Alevizopoulou said in committee, what the officials say, the staff of the fourteen regional airports, which you gave the Germans free of charge. Because the 'FRAPORT' has not even given half of the euro. He is currently running the fourteen regional airports in Greece and has not given half of the euro to the Greek State. As far as the country's sovereign rights are concerned, the Golden Dawn demands that the sale be stopped. It also demands that the notorious doctrine of the single defence area of Greece - Cyprus finally be applied. And that is the national policy that only the Golden Dawn can formulate: The doctrine of the single defence area of Greece - Cyprus. The exclusive Economic Zone of Greece and Cyprus, a common Exclusive Economic Zone, which will make Greece a sovereign force in the Eastern Mediterranean, superpowered in the most neural sector at this time, possibly the planet. The airports, as I said before, were already sold out by another bill. The continuation of this bill is today's bill of assignment of national sovereignty. This is a fraud against the Greek public. This is a fraud from which only the German ratification leaders win. I saw before, and I heard the alleged Prime Minister, who was speaking to Cesarean and provoking us and exulting us and daringly mentioning something about barren crosses and some such nonsense, the man who has sold the country to the Germans. He's given the airports of Greece to the Germans and he hasn't got any francs. So do not dare to refer to the Golden Dawn. In fact, he described us as "nothing antisystemic". We, supposedly antisystemic, did a year and a half in jail from all over the political system because we resisted this very sale! So, not to speak again, this man, who has given Deutsche Bank the Greek banking system, has assigned everything to foreign ratification leaders. This government is a government sold to the German economic oligarchy. As I said, the fourteen airports were theoretically allocated to the price of 1.2 billion, and at the same time we have granted to 'FRAPORT' the fee for modernising and developing them for ten years, which means that we are giving them more than 1.5 billion. And all this is done on the back of the Greek people! In order to close, however, my answer to the alleged Prime Minister, I invite him to read the latest US paper "THE WEEK", which states that, when the SYRIZA Government falls - after 2018, it calculates that this fall will take place, because, as Mr Pope mentioned earlier, you do not get rid of the chair, you are stuck on the chair and you are not going to untiring, nor with crane, but you will fall democratically by the majority of the Greek people - the first power will be Golden Dawn in Greece. The People's Association - Golden Dawn will be the first election force in Greece. And that is the optimistic message, because such a patriotic wind is breathing across Europe. It is also in the United States, where it appears that the next president will be a patriotic president, a president who does not want illegal immigrants in his country, who wants the citizens of each country to be the sovereign in that country and not the foreigners. The geopolitical balances will change. And the most interesting of all is that tomorrow's President of the United States supports him in Greece only the Golden Dawn, that is, the third political power of the country. And the party of New Democracy, the SYRIZA party, government and opposition, are drafted with Clinton, which is in favour of all unwilling positions, all positions that are against Greece. So I close with this: The sale of the country, which continues to be the subject of this bill, started by New Democracy and PASOK and is completed with SYRIZA, and is completed at every level. You apply Kisinger doctrine, which speaks of blows against the Greeks, mostly in language, religion, history and culture. And that's what happens today. I should also like to mention the school books from which the Persian Wars are removed. And it makes sense, of course, that the dissidents of our days remove from the school books of the Persian Wars. It makes sense for this country to be sold at every level, from infrastructure, airports, FIR Athens, to its history and culture. In this sellout the only reaction force is the Golden Dawn Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, I understand the embarrassment. And the verse comes: “And now what shall we be without barbarians?” And I wonder why, over the past period, public opinion has been fuelled by a press risk: 'National air is for sale. For sale, FIR Athens. Workers shall be sold.’ Now that this is not the case, it is awkward and acquired speed that has taken place at the turn, even a little more he wanted to say that what he said yesterday is "sold, sold, sold, cut, fired", now it has been done - I have heard it from a Parliamentary of the Minority of Representation - "now you are making it self-evident". How do the estimates change that way? I will not invoke my humility, Mr President. I will invoke a man who was of this logic, who knows the subject, who knows that it does not only have an economic and management dimension, but clearly has a national dimension in the draft law under discussion. I'm talking about Mr. Vassilios Alevizopoulou. I had heard him say that on television networks exactly what I have just carried: 'National air is for sale. For sale, FIR Athens. Employees shall be fired.’; And he said so with pain of soul a man who was twenty-eight years President of UCLAF, the Federation of Civil Aviation Associations. I invoke the Minutes. Mr Vassilis Alevizopoulou says: "I thank him to Minister Spirtzis for having been kind, and this information was salvages for our country," says Alevizopoulou, not the SYRIZA MP, "because we did take back - and I state it clearly - the management of the airspace by those who blackmailed us." The President of U.S. U.S.A. said so for twenty-eight years. And below: “Airports have taken them away. The second blackmail was the airspace. I congratulate the Minister on this action, because I believe that for the first time we have reversed the demand that lenders take us into the airspace." He's doing it publicly, too. He's honoring him. It honours the trade union leadership, which says very clearly that a dialogue began in June and is now complete and that the political leadership had absolute national, political, economic, management responsibility. Mr Alevizopoulou said below to his culmination: "This is why we support the Minister in his efforts and in his overthrow to remain and remain in the state." What other witnesses do we have to understand, in order to understand that their political embarrassment, what I have called for the New Democracy 'the custodial power loss syndrome', by the convulsions that we followed just before a step forward in Ethiopia, Mr President? It's not enough they're cynical, it's not enough they're neoliberal, they're witnessing. He says: "We wanted to take it to S.A.". But that's clear, that you were expecting the divestment. So to describe what you delivered us. You handed us complaints about the waste of millions of dollars to the U.S.A. You handed us critical specialties subordinated. You delivered us outdated electronic systems, a devalued electronic system. I take this opportunity in the five minutes that I have to address the least, my humility, a huge thank you to men and women of the Civil Aviation Service, because their own national, personal, professional and philosophical, philosophical, the sense of social responsibility, the feeling that they manage a public good with wider radiation, was that they kept the Civil Aviation Service upright. That is why I would like to take a step forward in this House - I hope to express other colleagues - to thank them for what they have done, who have kept the PSC up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And a political leadership came to tell her clearly that, firstly, "we have overthrown the intention of the previous governments to privatise both airspace control and airport management." How did that happen? The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. It is not possible to privatise the air navigation provider in the standards of Cyprus, which, if it were to happen, was very clear that it would lead to redundancies of workers. What does our Government say, and that is why we are voting in favour of this draft law, which completes the first assessment, when they were incapable, weak, of failing to defend public, national, patriotic goods until that government arrived? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me conclude with this, Mr President, in a minute. The Greek people are witnessing today the most dirty, grouping, systemic war that has been evacuated against a government that breaks the salts of corruption and the international decades that breaks a system of power, which wanted no political responsibility, no payment of permits, no prosecution of bankers. A government that says an end to the air-air cheques, which introduce guarantees to obtain loans. We're hitting the heart of the system, which is now trumping. And I demand that Christos Spirtzis bring the vagina of 'DIGEA' to Parliament. That's where we'll see how the lovers and the enthusiasts of the free economy did a competition with a candidate. That's where they'll be invited to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Triantafylides, thank you. You're over the hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, allow me. How can the state wait in 2012, by study, 718 million and collect 18 million from one candidate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u372	Because they changed the frequency map.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u374	All this will show up, and I shall end with that, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u375	You have left no issue intact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u376	It can't be said. They are recorded, as is the draft law. Thank you, Mr President, for having found yourself in my speech and not the previous ones, which have been mentioned in the articles of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u377	Do you have any complaints from the Bureau? You're in seven and a half minutes and you have a complaint?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u378	Because, Mr Spyros Lykoudis, I appreciate both your course and your presence in the President's position, you are allowing a Member to express himself not only on the draft law but also on a marginal political atmosphere and context, which he deserves. The dirty system war won't pass. We'll stay up. Let this be well known by the great ol' oligarchs of corruption and interlocutory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u379	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three educational sessions since the 2nd General School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mavroudis Voridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one is always tempted to answer when one hears such speeches. Because you know that this type of rhetoric no longer believes it. I don't know if you've noticed. It's not going anywhere. This is the absolute vacuum. I wonder if you yourself who believe it or say it because of duty, which is understandable. All right, your duty to do it, but not that you seriously believe that you are also fighting the strife after the Kalogerica. After Calograss, you're struggling with the complication? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You arranged to set up a man, give him permission and a channel, searched for him to find the money from Attica didn't have a five, and now suddenly you've had meetings, from what Kontomenas says, to regulate the political content of the broadcasts and fight the argument! Where are you going to say that and don't get unspeakable? We don't shout at you, because we're used to hearing such things in here, because - if you want - of a kind of habit. But not now sound like that! I'm coming to the bill. There is a fundamental contradiction here, which the Minister has to resolve. What we are talking about at the outset - with which I shall say that, in principle, we agree - on the need for functional separation, whether you believe it or not? It is written in the explanatory statement. I'll tell you why I'm asking you. Because you take the view that what you are building to achieve functional separation is not an independent authority. Is it or isn't it in your mind? How do you understand her? I will tell you that it does not matter what you have in mind, it matters what is written and what matters what is reflected in legal texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u381	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u382	It is precisely because what is reflected in legal texts is functional, administrative and financial self-sufficiency and parliamentary control is founded on this principle, I tell you that it actually has all the characteristics of the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u383	You didn't read it well. Read Article 1!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u384	Don't tell me about the law now, Mr. Spirtzi, that I haven't read! There, humorous! In all other things we should disagree, but, if you like, I would like to read out the specific wording. And by the way, don't tell me that I haven't read, because then you say that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has not read it, which says the same thing as me. Let it go now, 'you haven't read it'. Not to me, you have not read them! Here, then, in your fantasy and your necessity to avoid what is really necessary, which is this functional separation, you made a choice for which you come here to your own and you say 'no, to God, this is not an independent authority, it is a state agency'. Listen to them and don't worry! That's what this is about. The reality is, then, that it is an independent authority. We're done with this. But I have other questions. Question: Will you start doing your job? Because, Mr President - and allow me, this is an issue that we need to discuss, because it is a matter of parliamentary order - it is possible to continue here with such formalities. I read from the reports of the General Accounting Office of the State. Now listen to the General Accounting Office: "Annual expenditure from payment of the payroll of the new Deputy Director of the HR: This expenditure has not been determined by the expedited Ministry.". That's the first. Second: "Possible expenditure from any establishment of staff: neither has it been determined by the Ministry.". I am continuing: ‘The above costs for which no information has been sent by the expedited Ministry for assessing this amount depend on actual facts and the adoption of relevant ministerial decisions’. I am continuing: ‘The financial result resulting from the general reorganisation of the PSC's organic units cannot be determined because the relevant data has not been sent by the Ministry’. I continue: ‘Annual expenditure from covering operating expenses and housing costs of the authority, payment of remuneration and so on. The above costs, for which no information has been sent by the accelerated Ministry for assessing this amount, shall be subject to facts.’ Excuse me, is this a report from the General Accounting Office, which we should decide, as colleagues, on? The Constitution says that they must be accompanied by economic data so that Parliament can assess the economic impact of any regulation. Now that's what? Is it normally introduced? Mr President, this Parliament tolerates, and the functioning of the Conference of Presidents is tolerated, that is to say, bills here, which, in the end, do not even have basic economic data, why the ministries did not send the evidence? I come to the next point, which you have been concerned about and for which you have tabled Legislatively - I have not had time to see them - and which is, in fact, about the issue of transfers, with which these services will be supplemented - are supposed to be completed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have some more time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u385	You have, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u386	Now listen. Article 71 provides that the condition of a transfer is essentially established by way of derogation from all the relevant provisions. This is where questions are born. First of all, there is a European regulation, which refers to the subject of auditors. There are two people who have arranged the matter. The most recent one is the Commission's 2015/340 of 20 February 2015. It is clearly and precisely stated that there are specific requirements for air traffic controllers for these services. You say that, by way of derogation of any provision, you will be responsible for these services. What's the status? With what checks? With what service councils? On what conditions? By way of derogation from the Regulation? In violation of him? What will mean, ‘without exception of all provisions’? And how exactly will the services work? Who are you gonna put in there? What are the ones going there? So you cannot say that 'the intervention I make will be after the adoption of a Presidential Decree because the procedure is time-consuming'. Time-consuming or non-time-consuming processes to find a way to speed them up, but you can't go derogating the devices. Find those ways to ensure this effectiveness. The next question - and I shall end, Mr President - is about discrimination. In fact, with this principle you do two things and you put them both together. You put the airship along with the surveillance of airports. But these are two different jobs. And many times these could also be counterproductive jobs. They're not necessarily on the same base line. And the big question is how to fund all this. And that gives rise to the next question related to Article 65, the way you put it. So is it going to be financed with air navigation money, which will be used for airports? Specifically, the question and you know the problems, what is being created.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Voridis, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u388	Ten seconds, Mr. President. Why am I saying that? I understand the thought. The thought may also have a basicity. No legality. I also hear - and I would like an answer to that - that there is a letter from the Commission on how to use aviation revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u389	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u390	And we're talking about a lot of money. This opens up a huge debate and it is not a simple debate. It's a conversation that bores you, because if it turns out wrong - something I hear - someone will inherit the wrong one. And I see you oriented into the logic of the inheritance! So take care of that. You are doing the arrangements you want, but in keeping with what is envisaged internationally and without exposing the country to those which are its international obligations and which will find them directly in front of it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I should like to say to Mr Voridis that it is impressive for the level of opposition in New Democracy, which wants to think it will become the next government, to covet a canoe from a midday panel and New Democracy to cry out! That's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u393	We have responded and your Minister will answer us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u394	You have rushed to make an announcement as a party against the competition and Mr. Pappa. It's too self-determination! Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, our country meets internationally accepted standards of separation of regulatory and regulatory competence from that of operational activity in the field of air transport and air navigation. In these standards, however, we have incorporated the acquired assets relating to our national aviation sector, as well as the planning for the development of the sector, while always respecting the needs of the workers. Apart from that, however, in this draft law we are practically closing the outstanding outstandings left for the first assessment, an assessment which they have put forward that they will not close. Let me have a little mention of where we are today. It is important to see how those predictions have fallen in the way of failure by the government. It is important because we are not talking about forecasts of the much-consciousness, of some, a failed government policy, which will be the vehicle that will bring them back to power, but we are talking about forecasts of the possible failure to stabilise and recover the Greek economy, with what this means for the social cohesion and the development prospects of the country. These forecasts are not the result of a miscalculated calculation. They are a key component of creating an artificial climate from Opposition for economic and social collapse. We have heard throughout the last six months of 2016 that the assessment will not be closed because the government is incapable. We heard the evaluation is in the air, the country goes to the rocks. However, the evaluation has been closed and some outstanding issues remain are now being completed. We also heard in the summer that revenues are falling apart and that this will bring about the activation of the cutter. As we have seen from the latest figures from the Treasury, which have covered the tax revenues for the past nine months, we have exceeded the target by more than EUR 1 billion. We hear about the deep recession, while we see that forecasts for the growth of the Greek economy within 2017, even from international houses, are more optimistic than the draft budget we submitted. I could go on with other predictions that have misled opposition. We will, however, get away from the subject of the debate. But when we see that the first instalment of television licences finances an additional ten thousand places in children's stations, when we see four thousand new posts of 12-month duration in nursing and paramedical staff in public hospitals, then we are talking about practical support for social goods, from resources that the previous governments have refused to collect and give out canalarchs a good deal. I mentioned these as examples which are not a success story for us. We do not think we can celebrate that unemployment fell from 27% to 23%, because we do not regard it as normal that the citizens are weighed together to get through, nor are the truce indicators of the Greek economy more important to us than the decent living of the social majority. We are aware of the difficulties experienced by the average Greek house and we are struggling with it in order to stand up, exhausting the margins of international economic surveillance that you inherited us. We will not, however, allow you to be irresponsiblely destroyed, lying that the difficulties were now suddenly born. The above figures are a realistic illustration of the reality that shows that the Greek economy has relatively stabilised by avoiding the spiral of recession. The conditions for its gradual recovery are therefore laid down, while social needs are supported and mainly covered by our weakest citizens, while at the same time laying down rules that shield the public interest, by democratising the institutions of the state that had been eroded by the conflict. So let us be more careful when we talk about economic and social collapse and it is good not to expect it as self-esteeming prophecy, because destructive rhetoric that reaches the limits of hysteria does not offer good services either in the national economy or in the country as a whole. On such important national issues there is a need for mature political dialogue, of course with a conflict of positions. Instead, you have chosen a hug with the intertwined canalarchs and state-run businessmen, and all of you are abducting the control of the disaster. I'm closing my parentheses, and I'm moving on to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which the civil aviation agency's policies have led to the past is really disappointing. The accumulated problems have gradually led to depreciation, a depreciation which in turn gave rise to new problems. The regional airports have become difficult to manage, with what this implies for the remote and inaccessible areas of the country. The air space has also been managed by deficits, bringing us to an apology with regard to European authorities. This whole situation has gradually led to the Civil Aviation Service in an extended period of disinvestment. It should be stressed in every way that in this draft law the Greek airspace control is kept under public management. There is no privatisation scenario for airspace management nor a question of workers’ redundancies, contrary to what is said and contrary to the intentions of the past that were precisely in this direction. As regards the regional airports in the country, the status of public administration is maintained in order to strengthen their operation. This is necessary, as it is easily understood that the role of airports is both multi-dimensional and touches sensitive issues of national sovereignty, but also the need for regional development. In this draft law, the existing Civil Aviation Service is restructured organisationally and functionally so that it is strengthened to cope with the best possible task of providing air navigation services and managing unauthorised airports. On the other hand, the Civil Aviation Authority is established as an independent administrative authority. The objective of this independent authority is to exercise regulatory and supervisory powers. The Civil Aviation Authority will be responsible for overseeing proper compliance with the regulations, both for aviation safety and aviation protection. In order to avoid misunderstandings and to make it clear to those who are listening to us, I repeat that the control of air traffic in the country and the management of the twenty-fifth regional airports will continue to be exercised by a public service, as is done up to now. The restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and the general rationalisation of the current draft law ensure the necessary financial resources, both for the operation of airports and for actions to modernise air navigation. The Civil Aviation Service acquires a flexible structure, fully harmonised with the operational standards set by the competent European authorities. With the new flexible structure, it is coming to replace a dyskind model, reduced by 25% the addresses and sections, saving valuable resources, but without reducing jobs. Moreover, redundancies are at the heart of the New Democracy policy and workers are well aware of that. Therefore, not only do jobs fall, but the new operation, which will respond to modern needs, will probably result in new jobs in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an obligation, but through it we ensure public air traffic control for the public management of the twenty-five regional airports. We move on to the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority and the restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service, as it is done in every European country, while remaining faithful to our efforts to restore the Greek economy, without risking socially acquired and national sovereignty. We are therefore moving forward, with scorched steps, our political planning to get out of the crisis with society upright. The only serious project, which responds to today's challenges in its entirety, reveals the programmatic inadequacy of the Officerial Repression, which is the only one that is announced is the rectification of the old civilian staff, the bankrupt parasitic model of development and the service of interests. I can assure you, however, that these efforts will fall into the void. They are not part of the solution, but part of the problem. The solution is to lead to growth by a social signal. Recovery without crashing work, but on the contrary: replacing economic parasite with common rules for healthy entrepreneurship and achieving objectives to fairly reallocate tax burdens while supporting the social state. As you know, the balance sheet is always at the end, where you will not judge us in the telegraphs, but the Greek people with their vote in the 2019 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this came to my hands five minutes ago. These are the legislative improvements proposed by the Minister in this bill. Do you know how many pages of legislative improvements you propose to vote on? Twenty-seven pages of legislative improvements!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u397	It's all the articles inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u398	Minister, twenty-seven pages of legislative improvements! Mr President, will the Bureau accept this? Twenty-seven pages of legislative improvements in a bill with urgency? In order to reach agreement between us, it was urgent - and we are going to highlight it with all our potential - a bill that you are negotiating for a year? So either you've tampered with the world when you said you were negotiating or following the known baroque tactics: the shirts from the outside, scarf in international fora, retreat, retreat, retreat, back to the wall, and at the end, last night, we're swallowing them all. And you're bringing us So let's see how the national parliament is being legislated. Does it recommend or does not constitute an insult to the Greek MPs the way the government legislates? Much more so that the General Accounting Office of the State for a multiplier time raises hands up and says: "I don't know all of what you legislate in this Chamber how much it costs, because quite simply after so much preparation the Ministry did not send me any information to appreciate how much the actions it proposes cost." Is this a process of a country that wants to overcome the problems? And I come now to consult one another in the most basic terms: Minister, we, as social democrats, have been praising the policy of the independent authorities for over fifteen years. Because, in fact, we believe that all governments are required, regardless of who rules each time, to have independent principles which, with neutrality, justice and competition, regulate the various markets. This is where you legislate an independent authority. We agree that this independent authority has a special feature which separates it from all the other independent authorities, that it is the only independent authority that does not regulate a market, because there is no market, since there is a exclusive national monopoly. If we agree on this, we have to go to the next one. Do we agree that the Civil Aviation Authority you are establishing regulates issues directly related to national sensitive parameters? Do we agree that the FIR Athens FIR, which every time there is a Turkish challenge, is managed by the Civil Aviation Service, that is, tomorrow, the Civil Aviation Authority, and the Air Force General Staff? If we agree on this, we need to clarify something else. Who are those who will henceforth decide and will not make huge mistakes, possibly, at some point assign a route? And I don't think it's appropriate. I'm wrong, I'm negligent, I'm stupid. Minister, you accepted what Shoeble put on you for the supreme colonial fund, the "Shoeble Fund". Everything that provides for the divestment of the public property in the next ninety years, which you accepted, namely three Greeks and two foreigners, is exactly what you accepted as a "suit" because your interlocutors obviously don't trust you. You have granted the opportunity for the Minister for Transport and Networks to decide. Now you happen to have that position, tomorrow will be someone else. You gave the rapporteur's report. Instead of giving it to five Greek renowned prestiges, you assigned the two positions to foreigners. Because, first, they don't trust you and second, you also want to do other tricks. Our rapporteur, Yannis Koutsoukos, asked you: Will you be Greek and commit yourself to this? Because within the formalities it is not foreseen that it will have Greek citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u399	It's set.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u400	But do, because the air market is very specific, and the ones who know the air issues are counted on one hand's fingers. It is not more than five people who can become, with merit, governors of one service or the other. Do not see any Dutch, German or Danish claiming the position of President, the head of the Civil Aviation Authority. As a result, we must also make this clear, you must put the Greek citizenship of what is chosen at the end as the head of this institution. Finally, to conclude, there is an issue, ladies and gentlemen, which relates to the way this government legislates. We have a legislative text which could be just three pages and have the whole structure of the Civil Aviation Service and the Civil Protection Authority as an authorizing provision, a presidential decree. Why all of this - as every Member may know if he needs or does not need to have the section of this general management check - you do not make it a presidential decree so that the Minister can send it to the Council of State and control it by the Council of State? We do not, therefore, trust you, because recent experience of television licences in particular shows a deep-seated tacticism, they show a government that is beinghaved properly, they show a flaw and forward - backwards, we, Minister, want to tell you that we will be extremely cautious to the end, waiting to see which changes you will finally make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitris Dimitriadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u402	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Ministers, on the approach of today's legislation, it is important that we refer a little to the air transport environment in our country, as has been the case in the previous period. The Civil Aviation Service had entered a period of disinvestment, severance and depreciation. This situation means even that the national nature of air traffic control itself, as well as the management of regional airports, especially in remote areas, is at stake. Furthermore, the depreciation of the Civil Aviation Service from past policies has resulted in a constant apologies to the authorities of the European Union for the lack of airspace management and for the creation of capacity problems and - most importantly - for the marginal absorption of economic resources, particularly necessary at this time, in investment for transport infrastructure. As a result of the subordinate to all the critical specialities and problems created, there were requests from services from other European countries in order to take control of a department or all of FIR Athens, or to assist with the provision of foreign auditors of the OSH because of the many and major problems that were created. The system therefore only worked because of the worker's self-sacrifice in the U.S.A. and only because of that reason. The discounting of infrastructure and the attempt to privatise and control the air space of the country as well as the management of airports stops with this bill. In particular, it prevents the granting of State aid to a public limited company — as was the case with Law No 3913/2011 — whose operation would have been based on the economic viability documentation, since all airports had passed all the previous governments in the JAPD and not just fourteen. This was practically something that would lead to the closure of most of the country's regional airports. It is our Government's decision to maintain control of Greece's airspace under public management at all times and to definitively delete the mobility scenarios for the privatisation of the airspace. At the same time, we are restructuring the aviation sector on the basis of the European acquis. The proposed draft law attempts to achieve a double objective: on the one hand, we have the functional and organisational restructuring of the services of the existing RDP which - I have tried to tell you just before that it is necessary - to successfully carry out its work as a provider of air navigation services and the management of the concessiond airports. Secondly, the Civil Aviation Authority is established as an independent administrative authority and not as a generally independent authority with regulatory and supervisory powers. This is how we meet internationally accepted standards of separation of regulatory competence from that of operational competence, always having two new public services, because there must be a regulator with an independent nature, also public service. It is worth noting that our country continues to maintain under state control both the air transport and the management of the twenty-fifth regional airports. The responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Service are also widened with regard to the waterways. The main axes of this bill are: Firstly, the separation of the PSC, which remains public, thereby abolishing the phenomenon that we had to be both auditor and controlled. Secondly, the FIR Athens FIR and many other issues relating to national security are important that remain in state control. Both services therefore remain under the control of the Ministry, guaranteeing national interests. Thirdly, jobs are maintained together with all the workers' working and insurance rights in the OSH. Fourthly, we are achieving rationalisation and the structures and procedures that will lead to very large savings. The workers will now be civil servants again. Fifthly, ensuring investment, so that we do not have the depreciation we had in the critical installations of the Civil Aviation Service, and I am talking about radar, the FIR Athens FIR and the electronic equipment we have at the regional airports. Sixthly, the responsibilities of the PSC with their railways and operation are expanded, which is important for the role they can play in tourism and, more generally, in the air transport of the country. In short, it is a new area of interest. Seventh, airport management is maintained in the public service. Eighth and most importantly, as far as they know how to function - and we all know it - and the responsibilities and role of the Civil Aviation Service, the impact on national and public security issues is particularly positive. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have also undertaken in another area to bring about dignity in terms of national interest and public interest. I think we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Stamatis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u404	Minister, if they were to ask me what title I would put in your bill, I would put the title "Now that we found a priest to bury five - six".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u405	A dozen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u406	And ten maybe. I am explaining why: Why was the bill currently introduced into Parliament urgently urgent? It's a matter you've known for a year. Secondly, what really caused this need for the House to vote on some regulations in the PSC? The first issue was the management of the fourteen airports granted to 'FRAPORT'. Why did that have to be delayed? A law that regulates that was there. And if this law did not to you, you could implement the law governing the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos". There was an issue of functional separation. Yes, sir. Where has it come from - and you have said so - that our view was that this was privatization? That's slander. She says to the House that it's slander! The New Democracy has never recommended and has never accepted the privatisation of this body even when we were in conflict with the auditors' industry. Rescind it immediately! And as you admitted to the committee, of course, because our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis, told you that we had never had such an opinion, our view was that the auditor should be in the PSC - you said 'yes, but we also tried to try this, but we did not.' I don't question that. But where did you get the right to say that we had such an opinion? So we never had such an opinion. I myself explained to you - and we do not have to talk about it now - why, over and above the reorganisation of the PSC, we do not accept this statute and we do not have to say it in the House. However, when did this issue arise for the provider? Because it's never been put on us. In your day it was set, because obviously in the negotiations you did not understand where you entered. In other words, what we had avoided and closed it with a Directorate-General and a supervising officer within the PSC independently. We had no objection from any of the lenders on this. The fact that this has been done is your achievement. I now come to the most basic issues, because we do not have time to discuss everything. Who did you have a conversation with? This is a specific issue. I would say to myself that it has something to do with the subject, like you and perhaps two or three colleagues, and I am quite clear to you that I do not have the opportunity to investigate and understand the impact from the work and the transitional phase. Who did you talk to? Neither employees of the OSH of each sector individually can have an integrated view. It's so special, and a lot of that stuff. You didn't have a conversation with anyone. Then how do you plan a law? Who did you talk to? Also, a very important issue is this: You are making a draft law, which can be made, which provides for the transfer to another organisational and administrative regime within some time. Impact study, so we can catch up with you, have you? Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, a highly specialized agency. I remind you, when the airport was moved from the Greek to Spata, for one month there has been a civil suffering. Look out for the civilians! However, this will not be a problem for the citizens, of course - and I hope you will - of problems relating to security and security, that is, safety problems. Have you made an application model, to see how this system can function unexpectedly and safely? None. If you've done it, testify, let's see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I now enter the other issues of the bill. How many people do they need, Minister, for this to work? Are we in legislation without knowing how many people they need? Do we legislate without knowing what the expenditure is, which we need to predetermin from now, to see whether we can handle it or not? How are transfers and secondments made? By decision of the Minister. Have you read the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, in particular the last for Article 66? He tells you it's unconstitutional. Wouldn't you think of that either? Aren't you going to respect that, either? And you're asking us for permission to sign presidential anti-constitutional decrees? I imagine the President of the Republic, if he notices that, will refuse to sign it. This broad vague authorisation, which you are asking for today by the Greek Parliament. I also told you to'surrect five to six'. Because in fact, what are you doing? Instead of adjusting a specific issue or two, you've been able to regulate the entire body of the PSC. Why? To help your own people. And the canvas is obvious or even obscure. It is evident to the extent that it is described in your bill and is unseen in its implementation. Who are we going to move, who are we going to extract, who are we going to move? But it is obvious, because this is where there is an army of counsellors and counsellors to operate this system. And I ask, the PD works with a lawyer. Why does he have to have six? The PSC has a journalist for public relations, etc. Because he has to have a public relations office, journalists, etc.Huh? In particular, what does the APA need, which is not its subject matter, Minister? I would also like to point out something else before I finish my speech. Mr. Vorides told you. I do not want to make any more analysis, but by reading more carefully the wording of the distribution and the way in which the expenditure is to be spent on the amount from EUROCONTROL, see that huge problems are not created, as far as the country is concerned, and above all, do not find your trouble with the employees in the PSC, which others expect and others have told them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because I know you're gonna tell me later, I'm catching up with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u408	I would be glad to have spoken forward, but you told the committee yesterday. You said we deceived the P.D. Nah, where did you get it from? How did you draw the conclusion? I have three cases of payback on your day. First, for months now this sensitive service, which provides for a commander and two lieutenants, has been with a commander, the poor man, and he "does not have it". One! You say that to work, he wants two councils, two governors, two sub-commands. So who has deported the PSC? The one who doesn't even care at its top to place appropriate persons?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Stamatis, we're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u410	I shall conclude, Mr President, by doing so, it must also make sense. You said we didn't take care of it and you took care of it all. Yes, sir. I just heard the majority's dearest colleague refer to it, that we did not take care of it by staff. Well, on our own government, we had approved the recruitment of thirty-two air traffic controllers, because that is where it is literally suffering. That's the biggest problem. I repeat, these days. It's been two years, and from what I've learned, the call will now be made. I mean, the most sensitive area of lacking personnel...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u411	Why didn't you hire them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u412	But we fell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u413	Oh, for that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u414	Of course. We're down. And you've been here, the narcotics, and for two years now, this sensitive space you haven't covered. That's what you're interested in. But you had another interest. Seventy-two Olympic Air Force pilots who had retired and left, retired, and the OAS only has two planes. But if you look into the provisions of this bill, you see that there is a wide scope for using the seventy-two pilots, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u415	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u416	So you made a bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u417	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u418	I do not know, Minister, but I will make a provision: this is not going to be implemented and you will see it, and I hope it will be me when it is implemented. You will see that then, but not from the Minister's position, from the position of Vice-Presidents, because until then you will not be able to withstand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you of the progress of the procedure. A request has been made for a roll-call vote by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, in principle and on two articles of the bill, Article 1 and Article 78. On the basis of the calculations we have made here in the Bureau, in relation to the Members who still have to speak and the parliamentary representatives, if we do not have the procedure to go through twice and we are going with a very smooth move in the speeches, we have calculated that we will be done at around 17:30. In consultation with the President of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u420	All right, let's be 18:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u421	We have agreed on the roll-call vote to begin at 18.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u422	Good, great.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u423	That means we're gonna have to try and finish by 17:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u424	Excellent, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u425	I say that, for the parties to know, it is also the parliamentary groups present to do the roll-call vote. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Spyros Dannelis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomena of crisis in the area of justice are growing alarmingly, from the pace of awarding, which reaches the limits of the veto, to government interventions, from the legal, to the way in which the leaderships of the highest courts are chosen, to the pressures and unambiguous interventions, such as in the case of Doyaku, from the continuous politics of the President of the Ice Bay, until the previous adjournment of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State on the unprecedentedly invoked by the President that the surrounding political atmosphere, the climate, does not allow the meeting to be held smoothly. As if the administrative court were ever called upon to deal with any case in political sterilisation. Today's meeting of the Prime Minister with the leaderships, with the chairmen of the Supreme Courts, did not understand why it was because I am convinced that the chairmen of the Supreme Courts are not the trade union representatives in order to haggle their wages with the Prime Minister and the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, who is afraid of justice? We, the river? Next Thursday we are holding this public event - a debate involving legal scientists and high-profile judiciary - in order to open and participate in the extent of our possibilities and powers in a public debate on dealing with the multiple elements of crisis in one of the three main pillars of the functioning of democracy. Today the Prime Minister will meet with the Dialogue Committee, which he has appointed, for the constitutional review. Of course, I would remind you that the only person responsible for the constitutional review who has to discuss in detail all this opportunity, which we can give to the next House, is the Greek Parliament, is Parliament. However, it is an opportunity at this meeting that the Prime Minister has to discuss with the committee in the articles to be reviewed and the change in the manner in which the leadership of the Supreme Courts is elected. Another major issue of institutional normalization, which seemed very strongly that we must at last deal with, is the relationship with the Church. Can the dialogue with the Church not take place at night at the offices of the Prime Minister, with the participation of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, who was with what role? Institutional? He didn't. As a mediator? Does he have any special relationships? Do you need this role, the mediator, the government? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that at last this dialogue, which must never happen, and always with trenches, has opened up issues which must finally be settled, must be organised, coordinated and honestly on both sides. And our meeting with the Enlightenment, at least two hundred and fifty years later, must exist. I think one cannot question a well-meaning citizen or hierarch that the dialogue and delimitation of the roles will be of benefit to both the State and the Church. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is regrettable to use chemicals against elderly pensioners, even more, as it was during the period of indignation, then, during the antimony surveillance. But I do not understand where it precedes profitability for the government of protests such as that, Mr. Katrugalos. I think we need to realise the whole political system that, when it is lasting, deception, refusal to accept the truth and the sincere dialogue raises the wrath of society and its confusion at the same time. The government must finally find the daring to tell the truths that may not work today, but without them we are not going further. Of course, this also applies to the whole political system, to the whole of the political world. After all, because everything has close legs, in the next few days we will discuss the new measures included in the draft budget for 2017. In addition to the provision of EUR 2.5 billion from indirect taxes, we will, as it turns out, have a cut in pension and CSR expenditure by EUR 780 million. So soon we'll have them in front of us. I'll come to the bill now. We are taking part today in another process of legislating away from eunuchs. We are discussing a bill, which not only belongs to the prerequisites for payment of the next instalment, but is also a prerequisite for the completion of the multitude of regional airports. And we are discussing this with the usual urgency procedure, despite the fact that this is a three hundred-seven-page legal text, and as we have seen a few minutes ago, it is also enriched with 30 other pages of legislation. All this is happening, although we have been very well aware of the tight deadlines for the second evaluation, but also of the commitments we have made as a country. Of course, it is not too late to make certain arrangements, which we should not have reached if we were to have them as prerequisites. For years now we have been aware of our obligations with regard to finally adopting the rules and the functioning of the Single European Sky. Finally, an Independent Civil Aviation Authority is being set up, which will also be the financial regulator of the air transport market. Finally, the Civil Aviation Service is being restructured, as I have also repeatedly pointed out in a number of my questions, based on our European obligations, but also on statements from workers from the various branches of the OSH. I have already put them in place since March 2015, since the first months of your governance. Even now, there is an attempt to differentiate and divide the services provided so far by the Civil Aviation Service, the supervisory AAS and the operating AAC. In my speeches I insisted on changing the structure of the PSC, because it was obvious that the antiquated model not only reproduced the already known pathogens of the service, but also created opacity in the management of air navigation finances. It accumulated obligations to its suppliers, cancelled critical investments, undermined traffic and communications procedures and systems and, last but not least, covered public financial obligations, which were certainly not justified by the nature of air navigation revenues, as absolutely rewarding. And to think that the reorganisation of the PSC was an obligation for our country towards the European Commission, EASA and European law, in order to implement the ambitious political project, to which I referred just now, the Single European Sky, in which our country, unfortunately, also has the role of the pound. Nevertheless, seeing schematically the organograms of the PSC and the PSC, we have reservations, resulting from the existence of multiple addresses in the PSC - other colleagues have also referred to it - as well as identical sections in both. For example, in Article 14 we note that there is both the PCA in both the PSC and the PSC. And we all know that the MAI is, in any case, a 'freezer' of staff, without any particular responsibilities. In the same context, can Article 24 be established under one address forty organic units - eighteen independent sections and twenty-two offices - with a series of responsibilities which are inextricably filled with three pages of the text, while each address appears to be - rightly - to be composed of three or four sections? Obviously, you need to look back at the structure. It will never be able to implement and function. Article 71 describes how all the complex structures of the new establishment plan will be directed. You say that the transfer, transfer and secondment of permanently and in relation to IDUs, as well as lawyers with a fixed mandate, public-law legal persons, first-degree private-law corporations, AA and AAA are allowed. By way of derogation from any general or special provision, however, a joint decision of the Minister for Transport and Networks and the competent Minister of the institution from which the officials or lawyers are coming shall be allowed. All of this, without the consent of the competent bodies of operators or companies, without any age restriction, without any other criterion. I do not need to add that it is obvious that in this way, in the light of the familiar method, hundreds will be made - because we are talking about such numbers - arrangements with the justification for urgent staffing needs of the ADP and the PSC. You're also telling us that the payroll of all these employees will be charged with the ADP and PSC. However, expenditure shall be incurred, which shall be borne by the budget by the establishment of individual posts, as shown in Articles 71 and 72. For all this, we have no picture. I want to close my intervention with a special reference to Heraklion airport, because it is a special airport, since it remains a state airport, since it is in the hostage of the announcements and the implementation of the airport of Kastelios. If some transitional provisions for Heraklion do not apply, there will be problems with the operation of Heraklion airport. So until the development with Kastelli is clear, I think that the responsibilities of the airport manager or other service obligations should be provided for. In this sense, I will put forward a document on how there will be no malfunctioning in the operation of Heraklion's airport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, forty-five students and students and two teachers' attendants from the second section of the General School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA has the floor, Mr Olympia Tyloridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a fellow Member from Opposition, shortly before this Stepma, said that he cannot have confidence in our own government, because it is a government, as he described it, of vileness. So we are vicious and are not the ones who have led our country to this social and economic deadlock. We are vicious, and it is not vicious for those who are raving through their best friends and their best friends on the lists of tax shelters around the globe. We are vicious and not all those who, by their name, took it from the 'SIEMENS'. Hence, our government, not those governments that gave loans to their father - friends. We are vicious, then, and not those who were making sure their parties were given loans, without bank criteria and with the sole guarantee of their future, questionable percentages. And it was all well burned in this country and the Civil Aviation Department. And today the colleague of the Vice-President's Committee on Civil Liberties, implying that I do not know what to say that this bill provides for a very costly procedure. And as a party of households, who rented this place, it cannot tolerate the waste and mismanagement of public money. So, let's remind you: January 2014, Public Administration Inspectors' Board, research into the Civil Aviation Service. Conclusion: a waste facility in the U.S. Liabilities of EUR 95 million in overtime. And, as the College of Public Administration Inspectors says, they were licensed to be civil servants, who proved to be absent from their work or had moved to another agency and were receiving services, because they said, they were serving the central agency. So let us not be hypocritical. It has been delayed, he says, for a year now because he has not brought order to the Civil Aviation Service in terms of its compliance with international treaties and Union law. In May 2011, a survey was carried out by the European Flight Safety Agency. Conclusion: Flight safety rules are not complied with, and this exposes the country. There are, it says, irregularities that leave insinuating an intervention and a paragon of the political and party system in the U.S.A. Well, because it's called too much and obviously the role of Officerial Opposition, and also the Opposition in general, is to judge and control the government, it would be better to be a little more careful. Responding only to our micro-party benefit can often lead to dangerous paths. And even though it is clear in this bill that we are talking about public control of national airspace, there are too many sounds and too many suggestions left. All the previous period with various publications, various circles were trying to portray Cassandra, the negative scenarios: “The LGD is privatized. The national airspace shall be sold out.’ Understood scenarios that this government serves foreign interests. However, whether it likes, or does not like, the government has been chosen for a specific purpose and we are consistent to that end, despite the difficulties and the difficult path ahead of us. They reached the point of blaming us for intertwining those who twenty-seven years left lawlessness in the television scenery and blame us for not giving even for eight hours of extension. The draft law therefore harmonises the situation in the Civil Aviation Service with what is required by European and international law. The new data is being treated so that we can be competitive in the international environment. The operation, despite the fact that so far the employees of the PSC have actually offered many, had problems and these require the restructuring of the service, a restructuring which, under this draft law, recommends a new supervisory body, the Civil Aviation Authority. And he also leaves the Civil Aviation Service. Both companies are in public hands. And to say that autonomy and the fact that the verifier cannot be identified with the audited person, which also creates other kinds of complications and interests, seems to be characteristic of how the commander of the Civil Aviation Authority is chosen. And one last thing, because it does not allow me time, although there is much we could say: what is guaranteed in this bill is, in principle, our national sovereignty and, secondly, the working and insurance rights of workers who are not at risk, even though, as shown by the introduction of the Anti-Population Officer, they would have no problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, George Amyras, from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u430	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish that my dear colleague, who was in Stepma, and her Government, of course, showed the same sensitivity to employment and insurance rights and to the people working in the private sector. I wish! But don't ask too much. Ladies and gentlemen, you are once again bringing us under urgent procedure a bill, which is part of the so-called 'prerequisites', to close the first assessment. I guess you know when the first evaluation should have been closed. October. Not this year, last year. The Prime Minister, shortly after his re-election in September 2015, said that “in a month's time the evaluation must and will be closed”. He said that from this here, the Step of the House. A year, then, inertia, a year of frugality. You have written a bill after twelve months and you are bringing us to vote on it by'spray, wipe, finish', the urgency procedure. But it's not the first time. I would like to remind the SYRIZA's dear colleagues in particular that so far - listen to your merchandise in the bad legalization! - you have brought sixteen acts of legislation. The Samara government, do you know how many he's brought? Four. George Papandreou's government know how many he's brought? Three. You've brought sixteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u431	The Pippenelli government, two!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u432	Pippennel two, Mr. Tsoulus tells me. Yes, sir! So, with these methods, you have become a model of bad legislation, of bad governance, of Ministers. This legislation, as you bring it to us within a few hours, you present it mainly to us in a distorted way and you say 'vote within 12 hours', with technical texts, memos, annexes full of technical terms, only suspicions can give birth to the objectives of your own legislation. On the other hand, I can justify the urgency. Since this bill is a prerequisite for the completion of the concession of the fourteen airports to the 'FRAFORT' to the Germans, you probably do not. You do not hold back and you quickly want to give the airports to the Germans, showing that at last your mutation begins to become evident to your eyes. However, the draft is being debated at a time when the main institutions of democracy, such as justice and the independent authorities, are presenting images of division that concern us all. Justice has no one, but no role in political life and vice versa. No government intervention in justice can be accepted by any party, by any citizen who respects himself and respects democracy in this place. But power is unfortunately becoming more and more difficult today. The responsibility lies with both sides. We have heard Prime Minister Tsipras today at his meeting with the highest judges apologise for the one-week delay in holding this appointment. With regard to the independence of justice? Oh, no. Judges' wages. He found no apologies for Mr. Tsipras telling the retired, who ate the chemicals and the globes. Any apologies there? Any sensitivity from the Prime Minister to the pensioners? Nor, of course, have we heard from him any assurance of their pensions in the future that no further reduction in the rate of increase will be made. On the other hand, the supreme judges represent the institution of justice and must not be born and the "trade unionist". The rule of law requires justice to be granted on the basis of the laws, the constitution and not the pulse of society. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of State, we want you to be judges and not polluters. You cannot say that you are not on trial, because the climate of society is affluent. Then you don't do this job. Do another job with less stress. The bill, then, comes at a time when households are narrowing up, with overtaxation, with wage cuts, pension cuts and the Treasury triumphs, saying "Look! One billion euros more revenues." Yes, sir. Then why would you let the insurance funds break the buttons that have been stored for future pensions? They don't keep up with those two. If we really have exceeded revenues of one billion, then it is unjustified for the insurance funds to be in red and to seek additional resources. Transfer funds from excessive revenue to fund reserves! Just math! I would also remind you, ladies and gentlemen - and Mr President, your tolerance for half a minute - that Mr Tsipras last year had promised us the resurrection of the economy. Instead of rejoicing news, we see pensioners crying in front of ATMs, the accuracy of products due to your increased VAT, which is your achievement, going upwards, the taxes to knee homes and businesses. The resurrection was reassigned for 2017, but who - tell me! - can he believe that the objectives of the government will be achieved when a new wave of direct and indirect taxes comes from 1 January? The coffee we drink, even this, will be 50% more expensive. If that's possible! The cafeterias - you know - close and cheaper the imported coffee to capsules than imported coffee, but then it has an added domestic value, because the cafeteria works as a unit, as a chain of production. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the basic problem of the government is that it does not believe in its policy, it does not believe in any of the things it legislates, which is why it is treading a tread, and that is why it always brings them a last minute, which is why in practice it cannot implement any of the things it is obliged to do. You live, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the illusion of delays, the endless and otherwise proud negotiation that has led us deeper into the well than we were two and three years ago. Finally, the only person I can assure you that he cannot and does not allow himself to live with fraud is the Greek people, the citizens, who pay the bill of failure of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Thanasis Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Partnership, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u434	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the specialised issues of the bill, let's see what environment we are discussing this bill. The situation in the economy, the situation in society is going worse. That's the reality. Society's bona fide. He's watching us, he's watching us. Households cannot handle this right now, because the only economic policy pursued is taxes on taxes. Small and medium-sized enterprises have exactly the same problems. No productive reconstruction plan has been developed since the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks’ coexistence - none! - and unemployment is not tackled. A artificial reality is presented, you show only some part-time jobs that are created, which do not solve the problem. We continue to have the highest unemployment rate in the European Union. And in this state of deserve, no reason, to try to achieve a worthyness! The opposite is true. And we see what is happening in the last few days and with the Council of State on this matter. And because we heard a colleague from the government majority say 'we were elected for what purpose, really? What about transferring all the assets, even water, to the supreme reserve for ninety years? For the 'cutter' of wages and pensions? And of course, it was also mentioned by the majority colleague and the licenses that I think you should have realised this was a disastrous mistake by the government as to what it has done. And, of course, it had to be classed in an anarchist television field, but it does not enter the class by placing the money alone and defining a particular number of licences - just four - by creating oligopolistic conditions and all that they have followed. Nowhere the objective criteria! And nowhere, of course, a process that would lead to the desired goal! This is the situation, whether it is the television area, whether it is justice or the real economy, which is of interest to the citizens. So today we are once again discussing a draft law in the form of urgency. Minister, you have become the urgent government! You have known the specific issues so many months and brought the bill in this process, one day in the committee and one day in the House today, to read dozens of things, dozens of changes. If that sounds a bit like explaining that today you submitted another bill to legislative improvements? We're reading them now. And to say that some legislative improvements couldn't you know them? For example, in Article 1, which is essentially the main article of the bill, you make two pages of legislative improvements. You are suddenly saying that the agency is responsible for approving, renewing, maintaining and withdrawing licences, for carrying out inspections, for imposing sanctions in the field of civil aviation. Didn't you know all this? That's a cuff! Of course there are many other issues that are not just about us, but also about everyone else who is involved in the area. A lot needs clarification. Because what we are telling you is that it cannot be discussed in detail with this procedure. For example, operators are changing the logic in the paragraph, where they would be entitled to unpaid leave for one year, that is, they can leave for one year, so that they cannot do post-training this year. According to the papers we see here, the cost before this process, which is being reversed now, was much higher. It was 7 million and with this process it had reached 400,000 euros a year. You're overthrowing this. Why? Suspects arise. Who's coming? Are we going back to the previous cost? There's reference to the C.E.M.A.'s C.E.L.A.A.'s Association of Officials. And that's what you need to give answers. The Association reports that the National Meteorological Service is the provider of meteorology and the draft law, introduced here, there is no reference to its right to draw funds from total revenues. On the issue of airports, problems have arisen from their deterioration in different parts of the country. We receive documents on these, because the world, the regions and the municipalities have not been informed because of this urgent procedure, with which we legislate. The consultation is not the way it should be. Once again, you are choosing to see under this procedure seventy-nine articles of an extremely technical bill. You bring legislative improvements to forty-four articles from seventy-nine, without being able to discuss and analyse all these issues. Also, the bill to be passed is not, in fact, costly. I didn't see you here saying anything. The General Accounting Office of the State each time says: 'We have not received any data from the Ministry'. You understand that not only can not be a housewife in this way, but they start and suspect that there is a new waste in this way of not costing out new articles. The issues that we are discussing today had to be discussed and dealt with in a timely manner over the previous period. The rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Koutsoukos, has told you that the separation of the regulatory part from the operational part is in line with European legislation and in particular with the regulations of the European Aviation Authority and of the regulations of the European Aviation Safety Authority. After all, separation into auditory and legislation-controlled is the prevailing trend in most sectors. The restructuring of the operational component is in line with the changes that have taken place and continue to take place in air transport. However, we have a number of reservations, the vast majority of which are not withdrawn by the improvements you have made. In particular, Article 70 provides the possibility if the staff of the air traffic controllers industry are not sufficient, that service may also be provided by officials of other categories, regardless of the sector, provided that they receive training in the Civil Aviation School. Is this training enough for you at the Civil Aviation School? The object requires practical training and experience. It is therefore questionable whether the IT category employees, regardless of industry and expertise, without age limit, will be able to carry out these specific tasks. With regard to Article 71, we have expressed specific doubts about the necessity and reliability and transparency of the whole system for the transfer and transfer of personnel from other public bodies, the wider public sector, which may refer to covered political services. How can there be no criteria in the transfer? Where is the sovereignty, the rule of law, or have you not been elected, as you said - to such a special subject? As regards Article 76, the PSC continues to provide airport services at the airports concessiond by contracts until the start of the concession. It does not specify the aftermath. So can you explain to us what will happen after the start of the concession? It's a crucial issue. And we cannot remember, of course, that the flag of SYRIZA before the January 2015 elections was the fierce reaction to the privatisation of regional airports, which were then extremely negative. In 2015 it was negotiated, and then it was the first privatisation of SYRIZA. And, of course, because I have heard you have a controversy with the New Democracy about the pain, the crying, the tears, about who will hurt more than this process, to say that the problem is that in this way and confrontation, you have, but also political power, the Greek people cannot stand. That's the problem, not if you're in pain and crying after - both you and Census - in every bill. And on the issue of privatisation, as I have said before, we of course also want to make use of public property. The use, not the dive. That is why we are criticising you in this context, because hours - hours you show in the negotiation that if you had any more state-owned property you would proceed to that too. You remember that taxi driver who, while all taxi drivers normally take their customers, stops him because he has six and says: "I'm sorry, I couldn't get any more." That is what you actually remind me of the issue of privatization. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that another point of concern and reservation concerns, as I have said, the uncertainty about the final cost. In addition, there is a high concern about the extremely bureaucratic dimension in this bill, as transfers, provisions, ministerial decisions, which, as they appear in the draft law, could only be regarded as flexible. Another point of concern is also the number of those who do not have a timetable. The experience so far has shown that in such cases the application of whatever law is too late, and in the meantime, conditions can change, and certainly changes to changes are coming, and in this way the laws cannot be implemented at the end. So give some timelines, even in your final speech. So while this is a very serious and with many aspects of a draft law, which, if there were any time required for effective consultation, could perhaps lead to an effective draft law, the way in which it is introduced and discussed seriously. It is not a question of the adoption or not of the separation of a auditor and a control - we say 'yes' in this division - but of the way in which he leaves the gaps he leaves, the bureaucratic structure which not only continues to exist but rather increases. That is what we say 'no'. The apparent lack of merit on the subject of the transfer of staff is a serious problem for us, as every criterion is missing. So it seems that this government has a talent to burn everything, in part due to the great promises, the expectations it had made in the recent past and partly because of the apparent tendency to create a state without the merits of today, especially those of unemployment and this situation outside the labour sector. This is not the way to tackle the complex problems facing our country at the moment. You have to change, because otherwise, if the government doesn't change, the country will sink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority and the restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions. The draft law to be passed achieves the full functional, economic and administrative separation of air navigation services by setting up an independent administrative authority, in line with international law and EU law, as well as the restructuring of the OSH, which takes over the control and administrative support of the air navigation services and the country's waterways, as an independent public service, which should have existed for many years, as the experts have put in place in the committee responsible. The bill has four chapters. The first and second chapters refer to the establishment of the management method, the purpose of the Independent Authority of Civil Aviation. The commander shall be selected by public invitation after a reasoned opinion of a five-member evaluation committee, and thereafter after the opinion of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Greek Parliament. The Executive Board of the Authority of Civil Aviation shall be composed of the Governor and four other members chosen by the Conference of Presidents of the Hellenic Parliament, and the members of the Executive shall have full operational and administrative independence. A key part of the authority’s responsibilities is the systematic conduct of on-the-spot inspections of safety and protection of flights and airports. The provisions in Chapter 3 deal with specific issues of the Civil Aviation Authority and the HR, and a special legislative authorisation is given to the relevant Minister to regulate specific issues of their Agency. The fourth chapter deals with urgent staff mobility issues in order to meet staffing needs. Urgent issues of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts are also regulated. An active and ready-to-date system shall be established, with the task of addressing the interferences that jeopardise the safety of human life, in particular the Air Navigation System, Security and Armed Forces. As you well know - and better than those who sent me here - I am a political engineer and I have absolutely no specialty in particular on the subject of the bill. Yesterday, however, I listened very carefully to the experts who were kind enough to come and let us know. They are people who have consulted the Ministry for months in order to formulate a draft law that serves the interests of the Greek people. I thank them very much for that. Before all, there are two main questions to be answered: if the safety of flights and airports is improved and if sovereign rights of national airspace are granted. These two questions concern Greek citizens and these should be answered. Konstantinos Lingerakos, Commander of the Civil Aviation Service: "In February 2016 the Federation handed me over an Agency, which I delivered to the Minister and to him we worked and tried to contact the institutions. The desire of the service and the Ministry and any guidance from the Ministry was that this service should remain within the public sector throughout the structure. This is achieved by taking into account the draft law. Antonio Stavrianoudakis, President of the Panhellenic Association of Masters of Telecommunications Officers of the Civil Aviation Service: "The dominant request here is that it is trying to combine a purely operational part of the air navigation sector with a also operational and technical, with only an argument on the background. This cannot be accepted on our part.' It is not about the substance of the bill but about the part. Giorgos Kasimatis, Secretary General of the Pan-Hellenic Airports Association of the Civil Aviation Service: "I would like to inform you that we agree first with what the Minister and the commander achieved with the journey made in Brussels. I believe that this is how it is possible to have a separation between supervision and operation. However, there are some elements where we believe that this draft law should be based, so that they can be improved." Serafim Petrou, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Air Traffic Auditors Association: "In the organisation we disagree vertically. We want to see air navigation discreet, and we disagree on too many provisions in the bill. Thank you." Dispute in the organisational structure, not the substance of the bill. Vassilis Alevizopoulou, President of the Federation of Civil Aviation Officers: "You will allow me to tell you that it is in the right direction. One disagreement, which we had ten days ago, was that, following the demand of the lenders, the management was going to privatize, namely, for a public limited company, which led to the hug of the big fund. Here I am obliged to congratulate the Minister who did indeed go to Brussels and fought, and at the moment in the bill it is recorded that the airspace, which is a serious part of our national sovereignty, remains in the Greek public sector." Theodoros Kalogeropoulos, President of the Association for Electrical Engineering, was the public. At this point I would like to thank the commander and the minister, who in this restructuring of the service we were together and the FIR of Athens was maintained in public. We fully agree on the initial philosophy of the law.’ As unsatisfactoryly, all the experts who answer the two main questions - and I have read you with all meticulousness - are positive about this draft law. In conclusion, I would like to stress that too much has been said outside the bill. This, on the one hand, states that Members are unable to put forward the arguments in order to improve this bill and, in general terms, the issues relating to the licensing of television licences - I would just like to mention, Mr President - it is actually about the fact that this system is playing its change! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u437	I can't see Mr. Kammenos being here. Mrs Theodora Megalonou then Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today we are discussing the draft law on civil aviation. Before I enter the point, let me make two remarks on a point of order. The urgency procedure is now one way to introduce all the bills. You could - I think - abolish the committees. In any case, most of the bills come to plenary and are voted within two days. The explanation given by the Minister is that the bill belongs to the prerequisites. I do not disagree at all with the substance of the bill, but I ask myself, and I would like a convincing answer, Minister: it is a matter that so directly concerns our lenders, the management of our airspace, and what public service will govern it? How did we finally get to the point that everything is prerequisites? As far as the urgency of this matter is concerned, I will not just mention that, in order to make a slight policy, but because there really are a number of essential issues. For example, in the special report of the State Accountancy accompanying the draft law, several articles do not mention the financial costs because the Ministry did not send enough information, which we often encounter in the latest bills. And I ask you: when and why is there and why are we asking for this report? And what benefit do we MPs have if we do not know how much each article and any change that you are going to make in public funds will cost? First of all, and with regard to what you say, Minister, it is clear that public services and national security responsibilities should remain in public control. And I do not think you should - rejoice and celebrate about that. It is a given element and an unnegotiable one. Secondly, ensuring investment and not depreciating the facilities of the regional airports' electronic equipment is an issue that also had to be unnecessarily committed. Finally, with regard to the waterways, I would like to say that we have been listening for years and we have not seen a flight yet. But the citizens of island Greece have been hoping for years in this form of movement. I think it is inconsistent to decide on the regulation of water issues when there are still no, and we do not expect investors. And now I'm going to make a few comments on the articles. Article 2 concerning the definition of the commander of the Civil Aviation Authority is positive. And that happens in every public position and it will be done with a public invitation. This does not, however, extend to Article 9 for the appointment of directors. The commander will not only hire five posters but will have the right to conclude all the fixed-term contracts he wants in order to provide him with services that his five appointed posters will offer to him. I think we're giving the commander superpowers. It seems to me that the commander is unthinkable to pass through a sieve and his associates are people who may not be suitable and who are not qualified. With regard to Article 25 for the Civil Aviation School, I agree and propose that, now, particular attention be paid to matters relating to the security and education of personnel in the management of emergency hijacking or terrorism. With regard to Rule 35, I disagree with his wording. If you consider it necessary for the lieutenant to have two post-call officials, this will have to be done again by means of a public announcement and not by the lieutenant who wants to choose. The same shall apply to Article 37 with the appointment of two other staff members. Should it not be stated at least that the civil servants of the public relations office should be graduates of specific university departments, as is the case with the legal adviser office? I can give you very many details in writing, and I am sure that most of them are in agreement with you. But the urgency, Minister, has not left you any time to see the details in the draft law, and in a few weeks' time I see us again here voting on amendments and amendments to the text. Of course this piece of legislation we are currently working on would require many more discussions, much more attention to the difficult points and many, many improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. I want to invoke some evidence. Two good journalists from the newspaper "Kathimerini", in its Sunday leaf, in an exclusive report, in my opinion very reliable, Mr. Ziras and Mr. Nikos write about public debt and consider almost certain that he has entered the table and believes that it can and must be regulated by the end of the year. They are indeed invoking favourable treatment from people from countries who, until now, were not as friendly to us as, for example, Dieselblum, who is Dutch, Austria's position, Finland's position. Of course, we always have Mr. Shoeble toward us, which is well known, and they say so. They specialise in this and even speak of many ways, such as fixed interest rates and not the floating ones, that even the 20 billion that have been left behind by the recapitalisation of the banks can be used in many other ways - I do not want to go in particular now. They simply consider almost a given that debt, which some have sometimes considered sustainable and is not, is a large, very important part. Let's make it clear that the sustainability of the debt must be done, it's something that exists. You can't attract any other investors. It is also a prerequisite - I imagine today is the last prerequisite to get 2.8 of which 1.7 will be placed on the market - to get to the last step, which is the QE which is almost waiting for us by Mario Draghi. I don't want to remind you of Draghi's speech. I'd say he's gone because he's a very realistic banker. At the De Gasbyi celebration, he spoke out of the teeth about how we should deal with Europe now. I would also like to remind you that Yunker made a great speech, that yesterday in the European Parliament he was found to be supported by Moskovis himself, but also by many others. I want to believe that the circumstances are positive. No one triumphed. We all know that at the moment the Greeks' charging capacity has reached zero. There are people who really cannot cope with their debts, their debts, and we must respect them. I am not at all attracted to the word 'payer' or'stable'. They might be one of them. A big piece, though, can't pay. These three steps, that is, 2.8, the debt on the table, the QE are necessary and we had no choice. There was nothing we could do, that government could not do anything else. And if he had any other chance, let someone else tell us what else he could do, so that we could then send a very strong, strong message to the markets now, not after two years, not after three or four years. It was clear, I think, Mr Tsakalotos and he is absolutely right for investors who have no reason to look positive anymore. I do not want to talk about houses such as MODY'S and other houses that have seen positive. And the unbelievable thing is that the IMF itself, which is not friendly to this government and while we gave 0.3% recession, should give 0.1% growth this year. And while we give 2.7% growth, the IMF gives 2.8%. Of course, there are other parts of the IMF that we do not accept, but at least that suits us and we do well to invoke it. This is the reality, beyond the noises, like the two Counsellors of the State who became headlines. Let us make it clear that they are not resigned by State Counsellors, they are resigned by their trade unions, who have an inalienable right to condemn their handling. Also, we heard incredible things about the ninety years we sell water, PPC, etc. I have here the law, Article 197(11). Clearly it speaks of improvement, increase, absorption. The word sale doesn't say it anywhere. Of course, a government, if it wants to take the risk, which I believe no government wants, will never do that for water or for PPC. At least I think so. That's how this government won't do it. From that point on, we know that for a long time - I am sorry for the expression - it has become 'grain' in the ECJ and that is why they had gone bankrupt. We do not feel happy about this fund, but to get to the other end and say that we are selling everything and doing it, etc., I think it is inaccurate and excessive. We have also recently been living in an atmosphere that we are hearing about elections. Let one of you ask for an election, one of his own rough polls. To catch a hundred people on the street and if they find three or four, who will agree with him, to vindicate them. But it's doubtful. I still hear 'Go away, resign, nicknamed persecutors'. Fortunately not all opposition MPs are also very careful and modest. I hear many other things, an extreme phrase that I think will sooner or later have negative results for those who use it. And I speak for the sake of knowledge. Again, I'm not confusing everyone. I know that there are also wise people who speak with arguments in the ranks of those who oppose them. They may disagree, make tough opposition, but with arguments. Characterizing and getting out from morning to night thirty surnames, I'm sorry, but it's impotence. Say your arguments and he will judge the man who knows you, if I say inaccurate, if I am inconsistent and all that. I'm one of those who's never hidden anything. Yes, indeed, in January overcrowded, there was ignorance of danger, wrong choices were made. And it's not bad like that, clearly, to say, yes, you guys, we were wrong. I can't believe there was selfishness. Some people might believe it, that's my opinion. However, there were elections again in September and there was realism. It had the courage to go against its half Central Committee and over forty Members. You're going through this like this, sloppy drinks? It's very important. I believe that a politician's credibility is to have the courage of his opinion against everything. To say 'children, I believe, if you want me to go home'. That government did not go home and it still exists, and if you want me to think, the world is suffering today. The report by Mr Black on 'AUGIOS' shows - and 'AUGIOS' is not a self-interested newspaper, which you invoke and do well - that he said the truth, simply. Indeed, if they asked me, I'd say I'm not having a good time. Who's ruling? Twice. He has the political cost. So what? Did this world go to New Democracy or to PASOK or to the River? I don't think so. Read the poll well and you'll see it. And say something? Yes, the country was looted. Forgive me for the expression, but what I can say when I see a man who was the Treasurer of PASOK doing four thousand seven hundred instalments, the repayment of which goes to four hundred years after another, Deputy Minister - what the Minister himself denounced in this House - to involve his son-in-law, his brother, in peculiarities, etc.Huh? I want to say something else, because the Committee of Inquiry yesterday was Mr Provopoulou. I would like to remind you, therefore, that for those who have a weak memory, Proton Bank was given to Mr Laurentiadis, who has come out with irresponsible damage, but forty of his people are still in custody, while five of the inspectors of the Bank of Greece say "no, don't give the bank there". Mr Venizelos at that time put 100 million, as if he were his father's assets and a month later, on the stability of the banking system - so he says - with a special amendment that passed by night, he also relieved himself of this action. I would also like to remind you that it has been said - I do not know if it is accurate - that Mr Provoulou's son is working in the operations of Mrs Frangu, which accounts for 26% of Proton Bank. That's how the country ruled. I think something's changing. One of these is today's bill, perhaps the last, to "root" this vine. And I appeal to this Chamber, which I would like to believe should not be a arena, but to speak calmly and with arguments and not with designations, which help no one, and above all our image outwards. We may be rivals, but tomorrow we would be common citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, my colleague. Independent MEP Mr Theocharis Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u442	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u443	Wait a minute, Mr. Theochari. What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u444	On the basis of what Mr Papachristopoulos said, I would like to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u445	As soon as Mr. Theocharis came down from Stepa, because I just gave him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u446	After Mr. Theocharis, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u448	Mr Papachristopoulos, before I begin my speech, I would like to comment on two issues that you have said. The first one was for the poll. You told us that no one wants elections. The newspaper 'AUGY' survey, of course, says 51% wants elections. You judge it. The second is that you referred to Mr Laurentiades for stories of the past. Why don't you talk about the present? I was in Kavala on Tuesday, in the insurance measures that the fertiliser workers tried to take in Kavala, a hundred and seventy in eighty were sued and expelled, without compensation and without the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit from the OAS. And that's what happens with your own government, Mr. Papachristopoulos. So before you go to stories ten years ago, SYRIZA Members who said that we will resign if you are not justified, tell us what they are doing now that you have all been forgotten. Come on, then, first to solve SYRIZA’s problems and then talk about past stories. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill, which continues maladministration, maladministration and corruption. Let the Greek people listen to the deep incision made by the SYRIZA - ANEL government in this bill. He gets a public one and turns it into two public ones. Nowhere in Europe, with the exception of France, is the OSH not public. It's a public company with a public shareholder, as it should be here, a public company. We have lost another chance to stop rosés and recruitment and make the use of public money more transparent. I found your remarks very interesting. You dismantled the public. You're dissolving justice. You're dissolving the institutions. Dissolve everything in your path. By the way, today, you have made promises to the judges on wage upgrades in exchange for the postponement of the meeting of the Board.Huh? So uncovered transaction? What about the trivialization of the constitution with the committee you announced? You included Mr. Parara. Did you know he was a member of the Junta Constitution Committee? Aren't you embarrassed and put in this committee a member of the Junta's Committee on Exploitation of the Junta Constitution? Rescind now! Time to go down. I will not deal with you any more, except to ask the Minister two specific questions. Firstly, how will the meteorological services of EMI be paid? It is one of the four services we are paid for by EUROCONTROL. Others have said so. We're waiting for the answer. Secondly, the revenue from EUROCONTROL has been securitised in LEHMAN until 2019 and now I do not know whether they have gone - or have gone - to Honduras by Mr Christodoulakis and has been extended until 2026 by Mr Haloskoufis? What's going on? Let the Minister let us know. Are you kidding me when you say you're going to give them to upgrade the airports? Answer us. Instead of criticism, I will describe what needs to be done with the public to be positive - the Greek people see us here - and how a model of functioning public can bring about the revolution that this country needs. First, the scanning organisational reorganization. Ministries in all modern states are only responsible for the legislative and strategic framework and for monitoring the objectives of the various services. They have the most trained civil servants, because that is where political control of the state begins, control over the basis of plans and action plans, not on the basis of personal relations and dark trade. All services shall be divided depending on whether they have a commercial or an audit policy. I mean, what you've been forced to do with the P.A. and the P.A. has to be done everywhere. When the agency has commercial purposes, i.e. when it charges for its services, we have to have balance sheets, accounts, accounts, transparency, flexibility in procurement and contracts, that is to say, as a private company, which is accountable for the balance sheets, for example, every year. This is not privatization. They are accountability rules equal to private enterprises, the least we should do, if we want to respect the Greek people's money. We take EUROCONTROL 450 million a year. We have basic obligations. In our country we have to take another step: the Russian and mass merger of organisations, the reorganisation of organograms for simplification and greater efficiency. Secondly, the use of human resources. The knowledge that needs to be unlocked in order to improve every service, is within civil servants themselves. Faster, economical, safer services for the citizen can only be done with the ideas and initiative of civil servants. There is international research and methodology that Greek teachers have prepared. Improvements and savings can be partially returned to the service by purchases of material, recruitment - where necessary - and education programmes. The rest must be shared between support for the social state and a reduction in unfavourable taxation. Thirdly, rewarding those who improve their service, choices of heads and managers in positions of responsibility and productivity benefits to those who care about their ideas and implement them. I've seen a lot of them in public, and they're the people who hurt both the citizen and their service. That's what we have to reward and show. Productivity not in profit but in the production of public good and accountability to the citizen who needs us and who pays us. This is the third way to the revolution in the public, not its turbulent reduction, not its turbulent inflammation for later recruitment, not its continual strangle under the party boot. No party that ruled and ruled was able to do it. It takes a revolutionary turn that will change the game in the country. The Gordian bond is not solved with hands anymore. He wants a sword. You only have proven that you can do it is to destroy and destroy yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u451	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates, thirty-nine students and apprentices and three educational escorts from Kalavryton High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been closed. Only three parliamentary representatives, Mr. Dendias, Mr. Karathasopoulos and Mr. Karras, are left to speak. Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor. Mr. Loverdo, are you telling me what theme is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u452	It is a political party, that is, after the speech of the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Loverdo, I understand that. I give you the floor exceptionally, because Mr Papachristopoulos referred to Mr Venizelos. I suppose that's what you're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u454	Not for Mr Spyropoulos and PASOK's finances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u455	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u456	Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, is hard on us but is not fair, Mr President. I heard him today, but I heard him mention the quality of the majority here in Parliament in the past few days, specialising in this new quality in the fact that many things, which were not done in the area of corruption, are now being done. As an example, I am supplementing the 'ENERGA - HELLAS POWER' - as if this were to start now, while the trial, if it had not been for the lawyers, would have been over. It has started since 2012. He referred to Mr. Mandeli...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u457	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u458	I'll end up, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mandelis was convicted years ago and if the President-in-Office had not died in the appeal court, his appeal would have been over. What's the difference between yesterday and today? I don't understand. He referred to the 'SIEMENS' case, forgetting that the Committee of Inquiry of Parliament chaired by Mr Valyrakis had begun these. He also referred to Mr Spiropoulos, but today he referred to others. I just don't have time. Everything had started since then and the continuity of the Greek state wants many of them to continue today. He referred to Mr Spiropoulos. Mr. Colleague of the Independent Greeks,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u459	Not personally. As a cashier, I say about infidelity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u460	Yeah, yeah. That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u461	I don't have anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u462	First of all, Mr Spiropoulos has not been misled. He's been prosecuted. We'll see where it ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u463	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u464	Secondly, with his announcement he denies the basic fact, the key topic of his persecution, which is related to a fund, which he was supposed to have at the PASOK offices. I asked Mr Provopoulou the other day: 'Is it possible for a bank to borrow a party and that would leave with bags from the bank?' And he explained to me, Mr President, that this will be the subject of questioning, Mr President, that not only will it not be done when someone makes a statement, but it is not done when he makes a statement. If it is done, the competent prosecutor for corruption and money laundering shall immediately be notified. Well, let's see these. My colleague needs to know - I am sure Mr Dimitris Kammenos will have told him - that all the bankers have assured us that he has no problem in the face of a dose that a party will receive as a loan, when he grants as a guarantee of the guarantees he has in alpha, beta, gamma, bank, i.e. when he grants the banks the relevant guarantees that he receives from the dose. Problem is if the loan instalment is lower than the collateral. And we'll see about that. So, because it's also mentioned by name to Mr Spiropoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u465	Like a cashier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u466	I beg him to be fair, not say what he says. He is a congressman and must respect others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u468	Mr Papachristopoulos, there will be no dialogue on this matter now. You understand that. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u469	I'm the last speaker. I'll save time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u470	But, of course, Mr. Loverdos will be back and we won't be done next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u471	I am not personally referring to Mr Spiropoulos, because he happened to be a cashier. It could be someone else at that time. For God's sake! Apart from that, however, there is a reference to infidelity for 140 million. And I ask Mr. Loverdo to answer my question directly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u472	Don't ask why there will be dialogue and it won't be allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u473	I ask, anyway, in general...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u474	Make the question rhetorical.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u475	I make it rhetoric: Does PASOK recognize the 140 million borrowed? He's suggesting some kind of way he'll pay off. Because I believe that the credibility of a political party is shielded when it has a debt, it recognises it and says, 'Now, children, give me a chance in this or the other way to get rid of it'. I think the rest is unnecessary, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u478	I predicted you'd ask for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u479	It's another thing to recognize my debt -- that we recognize, yes, as it is--
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u480	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u481	...and another that Spyropoulos is referred to for the entire debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u482	Like a cashier!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u483	It is about one single dose case. I explained that before. Also, Mr President, every court investigation has its character and its issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u484	And the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u485	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u486	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u487	You must respect that. Mr President, my colleague, for example, referred to Hardouveli as a quality element of a new attitude. Mr Hardouvelis was referred back because as adviser to Prime Minister Papademos he had not testified 'from the outset'. Do you know how many ministerial advisers didn't know they had to testify? They filed it and were acquitted by the courts. It takes a little attention when we make a reference to names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr President. Since it is not a different day today, we have these clichés and meaningless controversy between the government and the other parties of counter-population, controversies and atrocities, which have nothing to do with reality and are trying to cover up the agreement between these parties in strategic choices and government policy. It is no coincidence that both SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK and other parties have voted for the third memorandum, which is the guide to implementing government policy, and much more so that the New Democracy - and on the basis of the last speech made by President Mitsotakis - is calling for new, scandalous and provocative advantages to the big capital, that is to say, that the government should exercise an even more classic anti-grassroot policy. But let us come to the issue, which we are debating today, on the Civil Aviation Service and on the restructuring of these services. It is another incident in a policy which has started since the mid-90s, namely the European Union's policy on air traffic liberation, which has consistently served both the PASOK and the New Democracy governments and the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. The core of this European Union policy is open skies, which means liberalisation on the substance of air transport. What does "liberation of air transport" mean? Because this is not the first episode we see in this bill. But we have seen multiple episodes of this work. Air transport liberation means abolishing the State air carrier at European Union level. There is no national air carrier in any Member State of the European Union. It means liberalising the use of airports and flights between European Union airports by multiple companies. It means the privatisation of state air carriers, as it has done here in our country, and the creation of a private monopoly by the merger 'OLYMPIC AIR' and 'AEGEAN'. It means privatisation of air transport infrastructure with airports. We had the first episode, the creation of the private airport, "Eleftherios Venizelos" at the beginning. Then we have the privatisation of the fourteen regional airports at the 'FRAPORT', which started from the time of the New Democracy - PASOK, and the SYRIZA - ANEL government was very successful in completing it. And, of course, we also have the path to liberalise and privatise air navigation and air traffic management. This is achieved through the single European sky, which the former and the current government have accepted. Is the single European sky, which is essentially what it is seeking? It seeks to limit the fragmentation of European airspace between Member States' national air spaces, military and civilian uses, military and civilian technologies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, excuse me. The Minister is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u491	It's none of my business, Mr. President. I'm not talking about the Minister. If I were to tell about the minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u492	Thank you very much, I just had to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u493	You did well. If I were to tell the Minister, I wouldn't talk at all because they're in the ears of not listening to what we have to say. From this point of view, we say that the European single sky seeks to limit - I repeat - the fragmentation of European airspace between the national air spaces of the Member States, military and civil uses, military and civil technologies and thus to increase the capacity and efficiency of air traffic management for the benefit of air carriers, that is, companies that make air transport, by reducing flight costs and thus by increasing their competitiveness and profitability. In the context of this single European sky, therefore, the functional airspace blocks have been created and, if I am not mistaken, nine such sections have been created at European Union level. One of these is Blue Med, which includes the single airspace in the Mediterranean and which has been proven. What is it doing with the individual functional sections of this single airspace? These are trying to limit and resolve the problem of fragmentation of European airspace by restructuring this airspace, not on the basis of national airspace, but to increase traffic flows. Blue Med, the single airspace in the Mediterranean, including Greece, Cyprus, Italy and Malta, as European Union states, has already been signed and agreed on by the Greek Parliament, as well as a number of other, third states such as Egypt, Israel, Albania, Tunisia, Jordan, which has an observer role and a number of other such states. So there is already no national airspace. There's Blue Med. So, with these celebrations, which I heard a 'project' by a Member of Parliament - in the sense of a thousand cardinals - of SYRIZA that we have won our national airspace, are you mocking the world like this, when Blue Med exists and is controlled by a single centre and includes the Eastern Mediterranean airspace on the substance, without national air borders, just on the basis of traffic flows? Who are you telling these things to? What are you talking about? It's like Mr. Skourletis did with the amendment. In order not to pay, consumers, we move on to this regulation that increases the fee paid by providers in 2017 to 100%. And who's gonna pay for it to the providers? Where are they going to transfer it again? Aren't they going to transfer it to consumers? Is the question of whether it will increase the fee that consumers pay directly to PPC, or whether it will increase the fee that consumers themselves will pay through providers? What if you take it from one hand or from the other pocket? But all this will once again fall and the consumers will be charged, the popular layers will be charged. That is why we are voting against this amendment. So while there is this given Euro-Union framework, the government is not different from that. It forms part of this European framework for air transport and air navigation services. It adapts it in this context and that it adapts it and adapts government policy with this draft law to these strategic choices, Europeans, there is no doubt about it. After all, you say so in the rapporteur's report, Minister. What are you doing? You just slow down the rhythms. You do so by means of the 'balancing' method, slowly, gradually making this adjustment and not directly, violently and directly, but without renouncing the serious consequences. So, in this draft law, we have the separation of the services of the administrative supervision of air transport, namely, the regulatory, regulatory and supervisory powers of air navigation, which you carry them to a new body, the Civil Aviation Authority. At the same time, you also have the PSC, which you maintain as a public service temporarily, where it will have air navigation services. You are undermining the operation of the PSC itself, shrinking its function and forming such an organisational structure in the PSY, a new organisational structure that will make it easier on the substance in a later phase to convert it, either to a legal person of private law in the next period, either directly or to an anonymous company. The process of liberalising air navigation, commercialisation and privatisation services is therefore not compensated, irreparable, irreparable from this draft law. On the contrary, you are trying to shape new forms of privatisation and trade in a course. So it is clear from this bill - and this is why the JRC also voted against it in the whole of the articles - that serious risks are posed for the sovereign rights of the country and for its national airspace and tourism, at a time when Turkey is questioned - with the support of NATO - the sovereign rights of Greece with the 'grey' zones in the Aegean Sea and the question of the Treaty of Lausanne. The second impact, which will be there, is that the possibility of satisfying the people's needs will be further aggravated. So air transport services for popular mattresses and people's households will be made more accurate. The third question is that the conditions of workers in the air transport sector and in particular in the Civil Aviation Service will be further aggravated, regardless of whether you say that the conditions are the same and they are transferred to the new service you are creating, since there are a number of provisions that conceal this deterioration. One example - our rapporteur has said so - is paragraph 2 of Article 26, where you are deprived of the right to leave an educational, post-training period of one year without pay to flying operators who are currently working on the Civil Aviation Service, so that they can either accept the degradation of their qualifications, because they cannot be retrained, or they can be retired from the Civil Aviation Service, which will result in a later phase - because it will not be able to respond to its role - to transfer those powers of the Civil Aviation Service to various contractors - who, as was the previous period and until 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Association, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u495	Mr President, in my previous speech - and, recently in this House, I have drawn attention to the practice of discussing urgent bills - that is, of course, what the government decides with a majority of them - we are often expanding our opinions on matters which are irrelevant and on the substance of the bills, and that is at the expense of the quality of the legislative work. But today I am obliged to violate what I myself said in trying to limit this practice, which is being observed. This is because there are some developments that dictate me or impose me, if you like, to talk about them. Who are they? First of all, the situation of justice. I am obliged to dwell on this point, as today the Prime Minister accepted the leadership of the Supreme Courts and raised the issue of some improvements to their wages. But is that what we should be concerned about today? The body of justice - and we all know it in the Chamber - is in great turmoil and this turmoil comes from the present government as well. Because I am obliged to remind you of two legislative arrangements: the first of them was that the right of the Presidents of the Supreme Court to prosecute judges was extended and that resulted in the well-known issue of Thanos - Doyaku. It is not pleasant that a supreme judge is punished and declared inferior when his colleagues have chosen for the administration of the country's largest Prosecutors' Prosecutors, namely Athens. How did it fall, ladies and gentlemen? For the Minister of Justice, the primary penalty for rescinding remuneration for twenty days, imposed by the Services Council, found it inadequate. In other words, the Minister of Justice checked a substantial judgment on the decision of the First Disciplinary Board of Judges. I will insist on that, namely that the independence of justice is being offended. Because, yes, I cannot remove the right to object or appeal from the Minister of Justice, but when he intervenes to the extent of the sentence, he becomes a disciplinary judge himself and changes that value of the Disciplinary Board. At the request of the Minister, the Second Disciplinary Board was forced to impose a greater penalty. Then, in view of these events, at the beginning of the summer, a law that changed the way of antiquities in the courts of the country and gave the right to change the way the nominations were put in place. So today, in the Council of State, there is a turbulence, which is due to something that is unprecedented. Let me refer to this, as I have experience of trials. The President of the Council of State comes out and makes a statement, which I did not expect to hear, that he could not be tried under pressure. I don't know what the pressure was. They didn't confess, they weren't announced. I don't know if it was on one side or the other, or it was journalistic noise. But what I know is that the validity of justice is diminished, because when the highest authority is forced to say 'we cannot judge and decide under pressure' and two Vice-Presidents of the Court of Justice are resigned by members of the Union of Judges - not as judges - by charging responsibilities to the President, then what is the course of justice, what is the confidence that the citizen can have? If we get all this together and gather them together in one view, we will see that it is the policy that is to blame, it is also the governments that are to blame, it is also the publicity that is being given. Because the question of the National Council for Radiovision and Television licences was finally brought to justice and we will all pay it in the future. Secondly, I would like to refer to immediate topicality, which is what the Church has to say. Yesterday we had a development which showed something. He returned to us in 1987, in the famous Tritsi law, when the then government was forced not to implement it. He didn't withdraw him, but he didn't apply him. It was right and then, and it's right today, what happened. Why? For if we were to enter into the Church’s offering in difficult times, we should remember that this myth relating to the great church property does not exist. Why is there no, ladies and gentlemen? For since 1927, the Church has offered without compensation a large part of its property to restore the refugees of the Asia Minor Destruction. Remember in 1952, that the Church once again offered a large part of its rest of the property for the restoration of landlords when the country came out of a global and civil war. So we come today and see that the Church contributes with the piles, with resources, with a thousand two things. Don't let her down anymore! The question of the lesson of Religiouss, in my view, is - if you like - a nickname to the offer that the Church has made. So do not reduce it in the sense of wanting to import new demons, when Greece, the tradition of Orthodoxy and the tradition of Greece have a common path of centuries. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] So let's go down to a third topic that has come to me today. With regard to the well-known Attica Bank - I said, Mr President, that today I will violate what I blame on other colleagues, who I say are referring to irrelevant issues of the law that we are discussing - what am I reading now? What's her status? I have here the 'ECONOMIC TREATMENT'. They will be issued in bonds with the guarantee of the Greek State, which will go to the European Central Bank, to get bonds of Horseskoufs. You remember them. You remember the fate of these 10 billion, you remember where they arrived. They came to be a few days ago and passed law from this House, with which they can now be sold not at nominal value, but at stock exchange, at zero value. What was the course of the Attica Bank? Repressed, ended up, baked, and today we are returning to 2008. Then the first bonds came out, in 2008, and will give the public back its guarantees. Why? I'm going to say something else, and I'm going to finish for the Attica Bank. I was visited by bankers yesterday and they said that the Bank's recapitalisation at the end of last year - which is not systemic - decided to provide a large part of private-law insurance funds. So then they were offered 30 minutes of the share price - nominal value - and today the stock exchange price is 3 minutes. They have lost the funds 90% of their value when an insurance law came in May, who told us that the insurance problem is solved. But when these tails start coming out from the right and left, what is the sustainability of the new insurance system of the single institution? You know what, ladies and gentlemen? I expect to hear more in the next few days. So now let's say the last thing about the bill. First of all, it is an obligation of the country, which is a memorandum. I can't question it. We said we would see whether or not the partitioning of the Civil Aviation Service is correct. I have a reservation, however - and I will not say any more: many principles. Civil Aviation Authority, Port Authority. So we see that principles are being created. If we get into the articles, in the details, we'll see services, addresses, departments, general addresses, transfers, personnel movements. In what way? Presidential decrees, decisions of the competent ministers. Where's their own opinion? One last thing came a legislative improvement that replaces entire articles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. I would very much like your tolerance. I ask and I ask if you would like: When we call the replacement of entire articles of legislation - even though they are detailed or secondary - have the changes gone through the suffering of Parliament so that we know that these improvements are part of the whole of the law? We don't know that either. I'll finish and say the last one. For the reason that there are too many articles on detailed technical issues, I do not want to be placed, I do not have the knowledge or, if you like, I do not have the ability to comment on them. A bill, however, which I see creates some new, even partitioning, state services and when there are also the relevant services in the Ministry of Infrastructure as supervising, remains the question to me. Do we need the independent authorities? Let's say yes. If they need these now, what does the Ministry need us? If the Ministry has to remain, what do the independent, so-called authorities need us to do? I'm asking for an answer. I don't have it. Thank you, Mr President, and colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u497	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u498	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u499	Although there is no need, because the procedure we have provided for, the Minister's suggestion to the relevant committees of Parliament and the adoption of both the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the other committee of Parliament on the Civil Aviation Service, there is no way that the commander will not be a Greek citizen, but also because the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration and the rapporteur, we have tabled a legislative improvement that includes it, so that there is no question of it. There are also two numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u500	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, George Vartenmenos, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7 October to 10 October 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u501	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Deedias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u502	Mr President, I waited for the Minister to hear, in the hope that, before I joined, some of the issues that were raised before, first of all, by our diligent rapporteur, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, and by a number of speakers from the New Democracy and other colleagues, might have been clarified. I didn't have that pleasure. It's okay. I'll hear after the minister. I hope it enlightens me and I hope we don't have to take a second. First of all, what is happening here is that we have a division of the Civil Aviation Service in an independent Civil Aviation Authority and a Civil Aviation Service. The first point of friction is whether the Civil Aviation Authority is an independent or independent authority. The Minister here puts forward the view - he corrects me after his position - that this is an administrative authority. However, the text of the law and the very wording of the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament quite clearly says that this is an independent authority, for which the relevant Rules of Procedure of the House apply. In any case, what seemed to me to be my impression, however, was that the Minister should be reminded of this by the statement made by the Greek Governor, ladies and gentlemen, it is as follows: The Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, criticised the government for the way in which this authority and the Civil Aviation Department are commanded. The Minister replied to Mr Hatzidakis, defending the Greekity of the administration. Very nice. Would you a little like to make a ratio of this administration in relation to the administration that you voted for the superstition? If the Greekness of the administration is necessary here in the way the Minister defended it before, is the Greekness of the administration of the entire Greek state not necessary? How is it compatible to fight for the lasson and abandon the major? Do you want to run, leave it with the major? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, you will find these. You've been a little confused from here, from there, with one and the other. I am simply telling you that these two reasons, here 'Greek's', which we hold in our hands the Greekity of the air, but there is what we have and do not have, give and run, these two do not go together. Now let's go to the structures you're legislating here. They seem a little luxurious to me. In the meantime, I may have made a small mistake in counting - you correct me again - but the Civil Aviation Authority seems to have five independent offices, three legal agencies, eleven directorates and two supervisory authorities. If we add to the Civil Aviation Service, we have three Directorates-General and twenty other addresses. The bill here takes us about forty with five addresses. Do you hear this as a functional economic modern resolution model, which will also have a low operating cost? Does it have any sense as it is structured or is it a huge bureaucratic mechanism, in the standards that the Left likes to create and in which he hopes to fill it with a series of rhetorical appointments? We'll come to that right after. Incidentally, you will allow me to tell you that you have a legal error - the legislation finds legal and substantive errors - in Article 3(3), which refers to the Executive Board. When you give the power to adopt legislation, that is obviously wrong. The Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you. The adoption of legislation is obviously not the responsibility of an executive board or of any board. It is a legislative function. We're coming to finance a little. The honourable Member, Mr Vorides, has already placed them. What's going on here? We all operate under the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic. Of course, the government majority yesterday brought a provision, unprecedented in the parliamentary history of this country, I think, from 1828 to 1829 until today, according to which the law it had was constitutional. We've never seen this before. In any case, because we say here that we are all operating under the Constitution, the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic has, for the legislative process, Article 75(1) and (3), which requires that there be a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as the relevant specific report. As the Constitution formally provides, these two reports are behind in this legislation. Do we read these reports, see if what the constitutional legislature asks for is being fulfilled? What does the constitutional legislator want here? It takes the time you vote, to know how much this costs the Greek people. That's what the constitutional legislator wants. So I read to you what the report of the State General Accounting Office says. ‘The financial result resulting from the general reorganisation of the PSC’s organic units cannot be determined’. Why, ladies and gentlemen, cannot it be determined? He says: 'Because the evidence has not been sent from the expedient Ministry'. On the back page it says: "The above expenditure for which no information has been sent by the expedited Ministry". Below ‘the financial result obtained cannot be determined because no data were sent by the relevant Ministry’. Moreover: ‘The above costs, for which no information has been sent by the expedited Ministry, are dependent on facts’, etc. We have no idea how much this package costs. By voting on a package that we do not know how much it costs, we explicitly violate the Constitution. It is explicitly violated by the Minister who recommends it, as the parliamentary majority does, which does not require self-evidentness to vote, ladies and gentlemen. These aren't serious things. They're not serious things at any time. It is not at all serious, in a country that is narrowed by economic tolerance. But you must legislate without taking into account the costs to the Greek citizen, to whom you are cumulated with taxes, taxes and taxes again. Then you'll tell us where the savings are going to be and why the savings couldn't be made. But that's not even the worst for the current piece of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, how will this luxurious double structure, namely the Civil Aviation Agency and the Civil Aviation Authority, be served? Any Greek citizen would respond with the well-known word of merit. Can anyone ask for anything less than merit? I imagined, before I opened this piece of legislation, that this will also be the choice of the political leadership of the Ministry and its government, which claims moral advantages, etc. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that you have read it or at any rate have seen it. Have you seen how these services will be run or how? With what provisions did you see? Can I talk to you? By way of derogation from any provision. By way of derogation from any provision! That's how they'll be staffed. How? What qualifications do they require? Any qualifications the Minister wants. By what decree? Without taking into account any decree, in the wishes of the minister here and the other relevant ministers of the Government. In this way, this particular luxurious structure of the two services will be served. Are you going to tell me, of course, within the existing establishment plan, at least? Neither is that. It also provides for personal positions. You come here, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for a lousy construction, a lousy piece of legislation, which does not provide for expenditure, does not provide for the structure, does not provide for the filling and retention of the relevant ministers, beyond the entire legislative framework of the Hellenic Republic, to pay the places with anyone they like, as they like, when they like! Do you have these things to say to Greek society in a time of crisis? Have you seen a lot of such legislation before? It's a pheasant thing. This is a legal lack of evidence. This is an economic opacity of celebrity and is a rumour of professedity. The government, which introduces such legislation at this juncture, must be ashamed of. That's the truth and there's nothing else. There's nothing else! This piece of legislation is being moved by the anti-constitutional authority. Look at Article 66. The authorisation to issue a Presidential Decree, Minister, must be specific. This is absolutely abstract. Allow a presidential decree to be issued for anything. The Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you again. But you're gonna tell me, is that where you're going to stick to these little things? But beyond that, these are without any financial calculation, without any staff limitations, with transfers as you wish, when you want. I hope I'm like you, and I'll be translated into some of us, and I'll smiling at you from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, are those things you're doing serious? What are these things, ladies and gentlemen of the government? But you will tell me 'a bad time', 'the bad time', 'a bad piece of legislation'. Do you do me a favor to look out of the Chamber? Have you ever seen the Council of State, not finishing a conference process, on the grounds that it has stopped the process at this juncture? Have you ever seen this happen? Do you do me a favor to check what the word veto means? Can you tell me what vehement means in Greece today, when justice annulls itself, stating that it cannot, because of the surrounding atmosphere, end up in a decision on the law? Where are we, ladies and gentlemen? We've become a cryer. Do you understand? Everyone's up against the country. The President of Turkey disputes the Treaty of Lausanne. We've all been taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u503	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u504	You don't know that? Would you like to read a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u505	You're out of line.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u506	Oh, you don't like it. But do you know... You will tell me Turkey is a great country. The Albanians have also risen up and are threatening us with 'csamic', do you know that too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u507	Well, national issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u508	I'm glad you woke up. I hope you're awake enough and not to vote for this misery we have here today. The country is in a total institutional collapse. The country finds itself in a total institutional collapse shows such legislation here. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing you can do, if you want - I have told you many times, you are in a phase of removal - to save each one personally his dignity and as a whole as a group, is to vote against these phenomena of legislation which come here as products of an outgoing government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much. Minister Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to some of the rapporteurs of the parties, of all the parties, one of the criticisms made, would believe that many - I will mention at least two, Mr Karamanlis and Mr Koutsoukos - have joined the SYRIZA and support the draft law in their thinking. They're welcome. Before I begin on the draft law, I would like to inform Parliament of the general framework we have found in the European Commission, but also of what we have found in the Civil Aviation Service. Because we have heard a great deal, but what we have heard must be verified in words and concrete projects and actions that have been done. The neoliberal framework that prevailed in Europe had a specific objective and specific policy. It provided for the closure of the national air carriers. That's what we've been through. I'll say it in detail later. It provided for the privatisation of profitable airports. It provided for the privatisation of airport management. It provided for the privatisation of the management of national air spaces. What happened in our country over the past few years? That's exactly what happened. In other words, the national air carrier, the aim of these policies at European level, was to stay and rescue a few central airlines from central countries. The implementation of this activity in our country was Mr. Hatzidakis and the New Democracy by selling the Olympic Air Force to Mr. Vgenopoulos. To remind you of a few things, I would like to say that there was no aircraft maintenance base left in the country. Nothing. Zero. Of course, the barren lines, which cost the Greek people over 40 million and the competition that took place, have been maintained until today, will cost less than 10 million. All these years. Because we're talking about viciousness or waste. It provided for the privatisation of profitable airports. It was New Democracy again. He didn't have time to implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u511	Why don't you turn it on again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u512	Listen, I was here eight hours and I listened with full respect to all the Members of this Parliament. If you'd like, you'd let me put myself in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u513	We're helping you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u514	Thank you very much, but I don't need that kind of help. The New Democracy did not provide for the privatisation of airport management when it had voted on it. He said it before the gentleman... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr President, if you'd like to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u515	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Please! There's also plenty of space outside and a little time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u516	Mr. Hatzidakis said it before. It provided for ‘AEDIA S.A.’. AEDIDA would not only have had the twenty-five airports. It would also have functioned as a whole. Of course, the previous government granted to the GOI not the fourteen airports that were for concession in competition, but all twenty-fifths with that reason of ‘AEDIDA S.A.’. Where does the New Democracy seem to have another agenda than some MPs have said today? Because some people have said other things. That since 2011 and since the 2013 bill, four years had not done either the organogram of the Civil Aviation Agency, as they had legislated. We're being indicted - he says - because we've been late for six months for the draft law. We answer you that we have studied, negotiated, worked with the services of the European Commission, EASA, EUROCONTROL, we overturned the policies you had designed and overthrown and the policies that specifically wanted to impose on the country. We are proud of the outcome of this negotiation. We are proud to have the PSC and the new body as public services. We are proud of the maintenance and growth of jobs and the maintenance of the work and insurance framework of the OSH workers, when some time ago, before taking over the governance was 'in the air' all. We are proud of the rationalisation of the U.S. structures. We are proud of the well-meaning task of upgrading the Civil Aviation Service from the first day we took over the government. Finally, we are proud of the draft law that we are proposing today. Let me remind you of a few things, to see what is at policy level. European policy has continued and continued in many areas to provide for the abolition of State aid in many areas of social interest. Today the problem is hitting Europe's central countries too. Central European airports shall be bypassed. Central European airlines have a problem. They cannot, with the neoliberal dogmatisms they have prevailed, become competitive companies and competitive airports in our neighborhood either. That's why you see the rise of regional airports around Europe. It is no coincidence that Istanbul has become the largest airport in this region and that Europe and European airports are being circumvented. However, the airlines cannot compete either with the airlines of Emirates, China, Turkey and the rest of the countries outside the European Union. So the question remains one in our country and also at European level.The overthrow of neoliberal policy, the overthrow that will restore development and social justice policies. What happened from the previous and previous governments and what did we receive? It would really be useful to give some examples from the first few days we took over. In the first few months, therefore, we have faced not all regional airports - all because the two airplanes with the Civil Aviation Department have been trapped. One was trapped in Greece because of the computer failure. Because we're talking about viciousness, how much did it do? The second was established on a maintenance basis in Germany and was not paid to be maintained. In fact, at the time our government was looking for one - one euro in reserve for wages and pensions to be paid, we were looking to find a few thousand euros in advance to get one plane back. That is the European solidarity that they have shown in our country at those times. Mr Karathanasopoulos said - and I think he was wrong - about Blue Med. Blue Med doesn't control our own airspace. We were dealing with this again at the time. Countries that participated in Blue Med wanted to take part in the FIR Athens FIR, due to the depreciation and malfunctions of the Civil Aviation Service. Another thing we found. I'm giving some hard examples to understand how the DEA worked and what we found. Seven - eight years after the project for the new airway in Thessaloniki, the lighting and marking system had not been clarified. What was the target? It was to impose on the new airway the national supplier of signalling and lighting systems with five-fold system of all the rest. Eight years hadn't been clarified. We were also the only country of the fifty three, which had not been linked to EAD through EUROCONTROL, namely the possibility of transmitting communications and communications via EUROCONTROL. Greece was not interconnected, it was the last. Turkey, to say, has been interconnected for several years in a European environment. This interconnection was signed in June 2016. There were - and we can all understand the impact - zero controls on private pilot schools in our country, even for who they are studying there from foreign countries. All the audit services were discredited, and Mr Stamatis said so in his position. They had, he says, decided to hire thirty two auditors, but they didn't make it. But the needs of the NDP when we received it are over a hundred auditors. Just so we know what we're talking about. I would therefore like to point out that the situation we have received, as a result of policies in previous years, has at least been disappointing. Despite the valuable, friendly and obscene efforts of the workers, and the very important work they are doing every day and doing through poor means, the Civil Aviation Service has long entered a period of disinvestment and dismantling. This was specifically targeted, privatised, and the passage of many of its responsibilities to specific people. This situation, as I have said before, has led to even this national nature of air traffic control being jeopardised. As you have seen yesterday, we do not. The agencies have said it. You want to forget what the agencies said yesterday. The bodies yesterday have congratulated the government and the draft law and the effort that has been made all this time to have a PSF and to be on its feet, from what you had broken up. Furthermore, the depreciation of the Civil Aviation Service has resulted in us being apologised to European operators and European Union institutions both for the lack of airspace management and for the creation of capacity problems and also for the marginal absorption of financial resources that could enhance investment in the air navigation sector and the improvement of its infrastructure. This year was the first year that the delays in overcomings were much less and the objectives that the European Commission set us, which is why we must also thank the civil aviation workers and the air traffic controllers, which we have achieved a great deal more than the targets we have had. Your intention, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, was to privatize everything, no matter how much Mr Stamatis breaks into his clothes that this is not the case. All of it! And the airspace and its management, and this one can read it out to Law 3913 that had been voted on. We know that the Greek Government's decision to stay the Civil Aviation Service publicly, the negotiation we made, is disturbing to you. Others annoy them, such as the New Democracy, because they know that when they were running they voted for the privatisations, they voted for the privatisation of the Civil Aviation Agency - it seems in two bills - and others are bothering them, because they were very simply supporting these policies and these choices. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance. We must respond to many of what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u517	You're welcome. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u518	This draft law attempts to achieve a dual purpose. On the one hand, it is the operational and organisational restructuring of the services of the existing service, in order to successfully carry out the work for the management of the non-allocated airports, which you have given it, and, on the other, to distinguish regulatory and supervisory competences, so that regulatory and supervisory powers can be exercised in a way that is transparent, transparent and objective. To achieve the second objective with the proposed draft law, our country follows internationally accepted standards of separation of competences of operational activity and regulatory activity. That's obvious. In this direction, the Civil Aviation Authority is set up as an independent administrative authority with the task of exercising regulatory and supervisory powers within the Ministry as a public service. Please read Article 1. Mr. Dendias, Mr. Vorides and the others who spoke from New Democracy are law-awareness lawyers. Have you seen any independent or regulatory authority belonging to the Minister? In Article 1 it says so. Have you seen that? Here in the bill on the channels and the EBT, you took our souls out to convince you that we are in favour of the independence of the EBT, that we should fill in the second, third, third, that the Minister does not have any competence. Do you forget? From a regulator to a regulator and from an independent to an independent is the case others? Tell me an independent authority, since you say it is not public and it is independent or regulatory, which is administratively owned by the Minister. You'll tell me one of those thousands you've enacted. So it's worth noting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u519	Do you read us paragraph 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u520	I've read them very well, Mr. Voridis. You'll answer what I'm telling you. You can't legally know that very well. There is no regulatory and independent authority, belonging to neither a Minister nor a Ministry. This is public service and this is one of the great successes we have achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u521	I'm not saying you can't, I'm saying you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u522	Paragraph 3 says ‘... shall not be subject to governmental control...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u523	Yeah, yeah. You can say what you want. We're used to twisting reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u524	Not what you want. You can't. It's a rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u525	We consider it a great success. Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u526	We summarise - so that we do not delay and then give some specific answers to the questions that have been asked - the main points we have reached through the negotiation and which we have achieved with this draft law. The first is, then, segregation. This structure could not continue in the Civil Aviation Service. It had to be streamlined. In addition to the PSC maintained as a service, the PSC, which will have the rules and supervision, is also established. Secondly, to finish what is being heard, both are public services in the control of the Greek state and obey the laws and governments, especially national and national planning issues and obviously, like all public services, they must operate independently of the political leadership in management. You're telling us here about justice, about the Army, about everything we're going to make a party state. Don't you want the public services to work independently? Do you want addicts? You're also criticising us about that. You're unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u527	Unbelievable, not unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u528	You guys are amazing. The third is jobs. Firstly, not only are they kept but they are growing and growing not to make ruffles, because to get into the public...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u529	Away from us such a thought!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u530	Away from us, Mrs. Bakoyannis. You have a lot of experience with ruffles. In order to acquire your know-how in the ruffles, it will be sixty years. After sixty years, we'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u531	Intensively to cover the lost ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u532	Intensive lessons we'll be doing, but we'll be there for fifty-sixty years, and then we'll talk about it. Jobs. Not only are workers' working and insurance rights maintained, but jobs are being increased, because this is what European standards and international organisations say. We didn't get it out of our head. Fourthly, the structures and procedures are streamlined. We are critical of why we have brought it. Did we take this structure off ourselves? We worked with the European Commission, we worked with EUROCONTROl, we worked with EASA. It's all in accordance with the ICAO Regulation. I do not understand what the criticism of the structure is. We were open - and we have, in fact, shown this with the legislative arrangements we have made - in whatever remark it was in the rationale of rationalisation. You blamed us for that too. It was said: 'Why did you download many'? One day you suggest them, and the next day you blame us because we testified them. Fifthly, we have ensured the investments that the Civil Aviation Service must have. In other words, we have introduced the mandatory execution and supervision of operational plans and of the PSC and of the PSC. Sixth, we expanded the responsibilities of the PSC for the waterways and their operation. Seventhly, the evaluation committees are made transparent and obviously with priority in the national interest. Mr. Hatzidakis is confused. It's okay. She must be a little more diligent. I'll see you later. Eighth, airport management is maintained rather than surrender, as you had foreseen in Law 3913 and the Law of 2013. Of course, the main thing, in my opinion, is that the Civil Aviation Service, for those who know how to function, its responsibilities, its role, its impact on national and public security issues, remains a public service, as is the APA. But to respond to what the opposition parties have contradictoryly heard. I want to make a general remark. We are used to listening to contradictory criticisms from one side or the other, that is to say, to blame us as dogmatic prisoners and communists and another as worshipers of privatisation. That's what we're used to. What we have seen today, however, are the two distinct, different lines of the New Democracy, which confirm the political crisis in the NYPD, between the New Democracy of today with extreme right worries and incarnate neoliberalism and the traditional conservative party. In reply to the questions put by Members of the New Democracy. Mr Karamanlis reported to us that we are making routine forecasts, that we are doing three legal services, three financial services and three staff directorates. At the same time - if I remember correctly - Mr Hatzidakis reported to us about other things. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u533	This is applauded as an expression of contradiction!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u534	Okay. It's okay, Mike. It's okay. I'll talk to you later. So we've been denounced for the three addresses. Will you tell us how many you suggest? We have two bodies. Do you want us to have a service? Is it possible? It can't be done. So let's go see why we have the third financial service and the third staff management service. One of you said: "Well, you guys put the controllers through airport management at one? It's two discrete. Watch out for EUROCONTROL.’ Who said that, Mr. Voridis? Help me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u535	It's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u536	You. Very good. It is precisely for this reason that the economic administration and operation of airports, distinct and staff, so that the ball is not lost, as has been lost for so many years that you have pitifully managed the Civil Aviation Service. You also blame us for the number of legal services. You blame us for that too. How many lawyers have we received from the Civil Aviation Service Legal Service today? Say a number. Nobody! Congratulations! Tell us why we're going to make ruffles! Nobody! This service, which in other countries is a Ministry alone, did not have a lawyer, a law firm. Not even one! Well, report us. You have also raised a matter of transparency for EUROCONTROL - all of you - and for where are the money coming from EUROCONTROL? We're responding. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. So, gentlemen of the New Democracy, where have EUROCONTROL been headed for all these years? What costs were they headed for? Specific actions are planned for EUROCONTROL money to upgrade equipment, infrastructure and human resources. Where did they go so hundreds of millions? Where'd you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u537	Ask Mr Chrysochoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u538	Ask who you want. Where did you do it? Tell us. Because you raised this issue of transparency. Where have you been? Let me tell you what we received from you. For years, the FIR system of Athens had not even been maintained. Fifteen years now should have been upgraded. Where did you take EUROCONTROL's money and not do these actions? We're asking. Where's the staff missing from the auditors joining there? We're asking. Where's the logistics infrastructure? Should we tell you what we're doing? Very good. So you can see where the money goes. We signed the maintenance and upgrading of the existing system in the first few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u539	Since when is this negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u540	Mr. Voridis, you sign it. It was completed in 30 days from today, its upgrade is delivered by the company. We have prepared the new competition, a new modern system - it has already been sent to the European Commission for approval - for the FIR Athens and the terrible thing is that these systems are not being paid by the country. Most of them are paid by EUROCONTROL and by the money that had to go there all these years. I really expect you to let me know what you're asking for in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u541	In the meantime, until they know, Minister, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u542	Minister, can we do this now? Without the opposite voice, you say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u543	No, you forsake us for where EUROCONTROL's money is going. It is our intention that EUROCONTROL's money should go to special accounts, both in the ADP and in the PSC, so that it can be transparently monitored. You blamed us for a waste. You put the ball on the platform for the General Accounting Office of the State. Tell us what evidence you want us to send from what we found. Unless you want us to execute the country. If you want us to execute the country, we're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u544	Please, Minister, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u545	You are teaching us a lesson about independent and regulatory authorities. In the next few days we will see how the independent regulators were being set up by the previous governments, and this will emerge not from the SYRIZA Minister or from the SYRIZA MPs, but from what they are going to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u546	Are we done, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u547	Yeah, I'm done. I have some answers to give, and I'm still coming through. Mr Vorides, at the beginning of your position - although I fully respect you - you mentioned something, if I remember correctly, Mr Kalogritsa, and the complexion, etc. When you're worn, when you're tireless, don't remember Mr. Kaloggitsa, because there's a gentle with tires. I say that so far we have been negotiating, we have completed it. So far, too many people have been preparing to faces of the government and the government to do their national work to get the government down. It's over. Today and next bill ends the negotiation. We will also deal with the rest that has been heard these days and with those who have said so. Let me give some clarification to the honourable Member, Mr Katsotis, for the pilots who are at the Civil Aviation Service, to remind us of other things. My dear colleague, we have found these people fired from New Democracy, we have reinstated them, we have been denounced for that. They did not receive an allowance from EUROCONTROL. That's right. They didn't get an allowance. With the clarification we have given, these people will join the structures of the PSC and the PSC in order to work properly, to have an object and, therefore, through this activity they will also be able to obtain the benefits, if foreseen, which other workers will have in the same structures. I also asked about meteorology. It cannot be foreseen in the bill, what the National Meteorological Service will get. This will be the result of the contract made by the civil aviation services with the National Meteorological Service. As we do not plan to say any more revenue, the compensation that the Civil Aviation Service has to receive from the rescue procedures and all other activities involved. To conclude, I would like to point out that, with today's draft law, we have also faced the country's obligation to assess, as a new reform that we want to adapt to the needs of workers, the ambitions and achievements of our national aviation sector and, above all, the effort to bring the national economy up with respect to the European framework of rules and principles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u548	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u549	I shall conclude, Mr President. What we did not do is accept de facto the depreciation of the aviation sector through non-viable and fragmentary privatisations that would not only produce the desired results, but would jeopardise the valuable tools that the country has to respond to its particular geomorphological status and its crucial role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u551	I spoke as much as Mr. Stamatis. Don't complain!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u552	On three!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u553	Time draw now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u554	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u555	Mr. Stamatis, there is no staff. Your name was mentioned only for the time you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u556	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u557	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u558	Nobody knows where EUROCONTROL money is going. Because I know where EUROCONTROL money is going, you should also know where EUROCONTROL money is going. If you don't know it, you can either ask the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Finance, because 20% goes to the Ministry of Finance, so that they can then strengthen the technical infrastructure of the Ministry of Finance. The remaining 20% is for staff needs. What are you implying now that you're going to cut it off? You should say it because the workers have said other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u559	Mr. Stamatis, it's not enough you take the floor, you're questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u560	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u561	Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u562	I fully agree with Mr. Stamatis. He said 20% and 20%, and we're two ways in which. Firstly, it is also provided for in the PSC and the PSC, so the workers who deserve it will take it. We're not talking about 20% plus 20%, we're talking about the remaining 60%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u563	The debate on the articles at first reading is being declared adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u564	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u565	What do you want, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u566	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak on the amendment tabled by Mr Papagelopoulos. I'm a rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u567	You've done it. That again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u568	You'll learn to listen. Now that you've gone to SYRIZA, you'll learn to listen. Because when you were in PASOK, you were talking. Now you'll learn and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u569	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u570	Listen, Mr. President. First of all, you should tell colleagues who are uncomfortable, to dislike their Government that is legislating in this way and during the debate we agreed not to have any amendments, to make amendments. Do you consider it reasonable to vote without saying a word about the amendments? I would therefore like a minute for Mr Papagelopoulos' amendment. Do I have your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u571	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u572	So I asked, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papagelopoulos this morning - because I knew he would leave - whether the amendment he put forward corrected his own sins, as well as - I would like to remind the Syriza colleagues - with Mr.4389 introduced by Mr. Papagelopoulos, they voted for the opportunity for politicians to have offshore. In return for this revelation - which I said this morning rhetorically that Mr Papagelopoulos put the line on his arms - the government with Mr.4396/2016, one week later took back this regulation and established a tariff for the control of 'whereabouts' as a diversion of politics. So now Mr Papagelopoulos says that Mrs Christodoulopoulos has told him that this regulation cannot be implemented and therefore brings about a legislative improvement so that the President of Parliament can define the documents. Our objection, Mr President - you have also made it in the Committee on Budgetary Control - is that the Committee on Budgetary Control itself, rather than the chairman, must itself shape the formal part of the procedure of control and of the documents and we cannot authorize anyone to do so without the committee's knowledge. That's our objection, and that's what I wanted to testify for. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u573	As far as I know, the starting point was not the president. It was the committee itself. We talked about it, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u574	We don't have any knowledge. It has not been submitted to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u575	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is adjourned: "Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. A request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Golden Dawn has been submitted in principle and on Articles 1 and 78, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u576	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u577	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on both Articles 1 and 78 of the bill.’ Receiving the principle and Articles 1 and 78 of the bill say ‘NEI’. The non-accepting authorities and Articles 1 and 78 of the bill say ‘OH’. The voters say 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known at the beginning of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u578	Mr President, if you are only kind enough for the Minutes, I would like to state that the New Democracy will vote 'NOVEL', in terms of Article 1 will vote 'NOVEL' and in terms of Article 78 it will vote 'POVEN'. However, our thinking is quite different from the reasoning put forward by the Golden Dawn for the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u579	Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u580	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u581	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Selta, Theonas, Raptis, Salma, Vagiona, Karaoglou, Aegaki, Tragaki, Karagkouni, Placiotakis, Boura, Katsaniotis, Brutsi and Cremastino, who did not attend the vote and know us by letter. These letters, which express the intention to vote, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but shall not be counted against them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u582	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we proceed to vote on the rest of the articles. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u591	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u600	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u609	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u618	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u627	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u636	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u645	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u654	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u663	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u672	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u681	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u690	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u699	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u708	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u717	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u726	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u735	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u744	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u753	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u762	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u768	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u771	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u780	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u789	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u798	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u807	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u816	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u825	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u834	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u843	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u852	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u861	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u870	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u879	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u885	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u888	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u890	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u897	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u906	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u909	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u915	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u918	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u924	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u933	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u942	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u945	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u951	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u960	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u963	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u966	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u968	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u969	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u971	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u972	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u974	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u975	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u977	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u978	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 45A be accepted, as added by the Minister of State's Legislative Decree-Law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u980	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u981	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u983	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u984	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u986	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u987	Article 45A was therefore accepted, as added by a legislative improvement by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u995	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u996	Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1005	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1007	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1008	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1010	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1014	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1017	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1023	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1032	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 50A be accepted, as added by the Minister of State's Legislative Decree-Law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1037	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1041	Article 50A was therefore accepted, as added by a legislative improvement by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1046	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1050	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1053	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1055	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1059	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1061	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1062	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1063	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1064	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1065	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1068	Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1070	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1071	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1074	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1076	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1077	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1080	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1082	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1086	Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1089	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1091	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1092	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1095	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1098	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1104	Article 57 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1113	Article 58 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1115	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1122	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 60 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1125	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1131	Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1140	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1149	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 63 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1158	Article 63 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1167	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1176	Article 65 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1184	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1185	Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1194	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1203	Article 68 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1212	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1221	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 71 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1230	Article 71 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 72 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1239	Article 72 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1248	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1257	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1266	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 76 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1275	Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 77 shall be deleted. Will Rule 79 - new 78 be accepted - as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1284	Article 79 - new 78 - has therefore been accepted by a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 690 and a special number of 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1288	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1293	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 690 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 691 and a special number of 26?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1302	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 691 and a special 26 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 6 October 2016, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and No.3126/2013, "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, 1. Criminal case law concerning the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the State Secretary for Economy, Development and Tourism
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1303	I have the honour here to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote. A total of 252 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the bill, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 156 MPs. Against the beginning of the bill, the 'OH', they voted 79 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted 17 MPs. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAH', they voted 174 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 78 Members voted. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Rule 78- new 77, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Annulment of Rule 78- new 77- i.e. 'OH', 44 Members voted. 'PARON' 57 MPs voted. Article 78- new 77 has therefore been accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1304	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1313	The office of departure was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Transport Infrastructure, and Networks: ‘Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, on articles and on amendments by a majority. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1322	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Transport Infrastructure, and Networks: ‘Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles, amendments and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1323	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1324	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-06-S1-commons.u1325	With the consent of the House at 19.13 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 7 October 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
