ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-6-2016, the PLST minutes of its meetings of Wednesday, 1 June 2016 with regard to the vote in all draft laws were confirmed by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on matters of the European Union and other provisions’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Agriculture Approximation to the European Union and other provisions’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the Approximation of Moldova with the European Union and other provisions’) I have the honour to announce to the House on Friday 3 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Article 130(1)) (The sitting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) 1. The Question No 932/31-5-2016 by MP Halkidikis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezis to the Minister of Finance on the establishment of a Tax Service (GIO) office in the capital of the Municipality of Aristotle Halkidiki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 923/30-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private sector families with the third families of the public sector. 3. The question by number 929/30-5-2016 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the fiscal diversion. 4. The question by No 931/30-5-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the maintenance of jobs with all the rights of workers in poultry facilities by the new employer "NITSIACO". 5. The question by No 927/30-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Dimitrios Kosmetou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning bureaucracy in the areas of marinas. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 924/30-5-2016, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Health about the need to staff the Artificial Kid of the General Hospital of Serres. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 936/31-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the unacceptable and dangerous conditions of "friendly" refugee in Koutsochochero Larsis. 3. The question by No 928/30-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the strengthening of the mission and the economic position of resin growers for the benefit of the forest and the national economy. 4. The Question No 934/31-5-2016 by Independent MP from Athens Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance regarding the suspension of the extended hours of Customs V and F Piraeus. 5. The question under number 896/23-5-2016 was raised by MP Mr. I Piraeus, of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the course of the audit of the participants' supporting documents in the tender for the recruitment of five-year-old firefighters. 6. The Question No 897/23-5-2016 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the intentions of the Ministry to restore the Patras Scientific Park under the supervision of the Institute of Technology and Research. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 891/23-5-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of State regarding the ‘private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Leonida Gregorakos' question to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the shareholders of cooperative banks. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: The sixth question will be discussed under No 922/30-5-2016. First question by the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, regarding the delay in the payment of the one-off aid from the Social Welfare Fund.). Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Civil Service Welfare Fund, as you well know, is responsible for adopting a decision to grant a one-off aid to insured persons who are made redundant or who leave the public service. This one-off payment by the Civil Service Welfare Fund is determined by the years of insurance and the wage of insurance. From 1-9-2013, some sixty-two thousand applications have been accumulated to grant this one-off to public pensioners. Of these, forty - three thousand applications have been pending by the Public Service Welfare Fund. In fact, the one-off allocations have been frozen since September 2015 due to the involvement created by the application of the sustainability factor as well as the non-practical application of the formula set for the calculation of the amount of the single. It is therefore necessary to rationalise the calculation of the one-off and essentially to award the already delayed applications. In view of this, you are asking what action you will take to resolve this problem as soon as possible and when the pending requests for the one-off payment will be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you know that since September 2013 the one-off payments have not been made anywhere. The cause of this situation lies in the law at the time and in the relevant ministerial decision by the then Minister, Mr Brutsi, which calculated the payment of the one single with a formula which led to inappropriate results. This has been explained. I will repeat that the only one then had to take it after waiting to see how many people in one year would be the beneficiaries to be allocated the sum available to them for the one-year period. This resulted in an uneasy result for those who followed, if these funds were exhausted because it would have been the case in this year for the interested parties to be numerous, and thus the amount actually available would in some cases have resulted in incidental reasons being exhausted. Therefore, the next ones would get a much smaller amount of one-off. That was understood by everyone and by the government at the time, which is why it has never implemented it. The new method of calculation is simple and identical for all insured persons. It is well known that we have 60% of the insurance salary of the average over the last five years, when these last five years are gathered, multiplied by the beneficiary's insurance years. This is how we proceed with a speedy calculation of the outstanding ones to all social security institutions. Within the next few months, we are counting on the sum of about EUR 1 063 000 in the next period to one and a half years from now. It is about 633,000 euros to be made available from the funding that will take place for outstanding and overdue public obligations vis-à-vis third parties. This includes the part of the single payment and is calculated to that amount. It is also EUR 400,000, 000, which has been raised, that has been stored all this time that it has not been paid alone. So the amount to be allocated is EUR 1063,000,000. One understands that we have all this opportunity to quickly achieve the satisfaction of so many outstanding ones for all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u6	You do - indeed the question has two arms - on the one hand, the one-off calculation, which was wrong, and now it is well calculated, and on the other hand, the only one's performance. What I wanted in addition to asking is that EUR 1060,000, which you said, will be paid according to the time of applications - why are there too many, there are thousands of outstanding applications - with the disbursement of the dose? That is what I wanted to ask in addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u8	We consider it to be a self-evident and reasonable obligation to satisfy the earlier applications in order. The world has been waiting since September 2013, as I said, to get this one. They had reached the point of saying: 'Give us whatever it is you can do, as long as you give us it'. That was the situation of our fellow citizens, who have been waiting for over three years - and much more of them - to take the one and it will really be a relief for this world. We will, of course, give priority to the whole world he expects. I already hope that the services of the welfare funds over the past period had gathered the information they need, because you need to know that too many of the applications - dossiers are stacked in underground and unreadable from moisture and from wear. I believe that they will respond to the officials and officials of the Welfare and the Public Staff Welfare Fund, so that we can quickly respond to this need. I assume that the Civil Service Welfare Fund, which has so many years to pay a one-off payment, will have done the processing it takes so that the data for each insured person can be data now, because the calculation of the payment is simple. As I have said, the single market is not going to work too much, and there is no need for large-scale treatments. Therefore, for each beneficiary, the amount of the insurance corresponding to each has been identified. It is very easy to deal with these cases. I believe that officials and civil servants will respond to this need, which is a national need, and the country and the economy needs it - so that we can quickly have a flow of EUR 1,063 000 million in growth, which we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before moving on to the next timely question, a request and a briefing to this House. Sixteen questions will be discussed today. It is a positive development, in our view, having the experience of previous debates or meetings - if you like - within the framework of parliamentary control. I would therefore ask the Members and Ministers to be within the time-limits to ensure that the procedure does not take place for a long time, because after parliamentary scrutiny, you know very well that it follows legislative work. We enter the fourth under number 917/30-5-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the intentions of the Ministry to propose legislation for sustainable settlement of outstanding debts. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been experiencing a new recession since 2015 and this has had an impact on the potential of businesses, on the potential of people working in the real economy and, of course, the great problem of accumulated debts to the insurance funds is affected and this is negative, given that there are about two hundred and eighty thousand debtors in the insurance funds. The arrangements that have been made - and to refer to the last hundred doses and also to the fixed regulation of twelve instalments - have attracted a large number first, but then we see that most of those involved in the arrangements obviously have stopped serving them. In particular, according to reports, we have over 50% of people who had joined the regulation of the percentage of doses within one year. In other words, about thirty - five thousand have endured over half of them. It is an issue that we had discussed in January, if I remember correctly, or in February, and you promised, it stated that, when the new insurance policy was launched, a sustainable regulation will also come in place, as far as possible, which will be able to give a second chance to those who joined either a first chance to those who had not decided or had not had the opportunity to join in the arrangements that were in force in the previous period. I would like to see, then, whether you have worked out arrangements and what they include, so that the insurance funds can also be collected, that companies can also be informed, and that the debtors in general and the workers can get their insurance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, remember right. I said in January that through the system the new one that we are creating with the new provisions of the social security system will give other opportunities to pay contributions. This is the one side of the profit-making potential that is now being shaped, as we link the contribution with real net profits. Therefore, they will no longer be created and there will be no reason to create debtors with the new provisions of our law. You have also rightly said that we will see how to regulate old debts and do this in the law with three separate parametric provisions. One is, of course, the liquidation of debts which are unrealistic and unacceptable for recovery, in a way that is perfectly safe. And I said, as an example, the Petroleum Patraika, which has many years ago, decades ago, has ceased to exist and the capital now has been exhausted, which could exist in the management process. To clear up the social security money market, we need to know what money we have available and that's the one part. Secondly, it is the preliminary procedure for taking into account any undertaking which can actually be viable and continues to operate, for such debts to be regulated, so that it does not find itself in a state of inability to continue operating which would be at the expense of the insured and social security as a whole. And this point in the law remains enriched with the institutional guarantees and provisions for the procedures which will be necessary in order to clarify what is to be done. And there is a third reference to our law, to link the new method of collecting contributions together with the regulation of debts. It is a third chapter which we will be working on - and we are already working on - to get it into effect from 1-1-2017. The fourth chapter, which is urgent, is what will happen with the regulations that have already been lost because of the actual inability of the insured to meet their instalment obligations. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We said that we would proceed - and yesterday we held a wide-ranging meeting with the managers of the agencies - in the reintegration of those who had been regulated and lost for technical reasons, for reasons of force majeure, for reasons of force majeure, but for reasons which they do not intend to do with their obligations, and we will very soon proceed to such applications so that they can be re-examined, not with regard to those who do not wish and who did not wish to meet these obligations. Therefore, on the occasion of your question, I would like to state this. Mr President, you will allow me to say something, because there is an issue with the media and how information sometimes becomes the opposite result of good citizens being informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have your second language. I don't want to interrupt you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u14	Okay, just for the completeness of the image I wanted to make it clear to the world, because it really is groaning and suffering and there's no reason to suffer for another mistake that can happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u15	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u16	They say too many instruments that we are now going to make arrangements of this kind which are favourable to existing regulations and some are wondering whether they should stop serving the arrangements that already apply to the previous provisions. So they're thinking of stopping these, waiting for something else. It'll be a crime to do that. I say this in every way and unequivocally. Those who are in these regulation applications must continue, because they are indeed favourable, and we will take measures for those who have errors and problems were thrown out of the system in order to get them reinstated. That's all we're talking about. The other measures are measures which will be followed and, Mr Kegeroglu, I will then reply to some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u18	It is important that what is clear from the Minister's point of view not to be on the side of people who have a great deal of trouble and insistence continue to respect the rules of suspension or second thought and stop serving the regulation for reasons which, of course, do not correspond to their economic potential. Because when there is no financial possibility, no matter what you say to him in this context, you will not be able to convince him unless there is any other thought, another way of paying him. So let me start from them. We have a number that is over sixty thousand, which has been set up by a hundred doses and a year later it has been allocated for various reasons. I would say that there we should not be strict in terms of criteria, and that the other card was in the hospital, that he would find his friend and colleague, Nikos Igoumenides, for example, who was ill, etc., because that is what this is about. That thing's done. I would therefore say that these conditions do not exist. We all know that for many reasons they have endured. Okay, so there's a responsible statement that he had a weakness. As long as it is economical now, it either pays the sums that it has not paid at the time and is reintroduced, or we make it easier for it to be included in the regulation of the twelve instalments. I think that is a framework that can make it easier not to look for paper. You already do, for cases where we really have such major problems, when the other one is in hospital, for a loss of one month etc. But here, we have a wider issue. We have sixty thousand people who need to give them the opportunity. I would therefore suggest that you put this right. No one will tell you anything if there is such a possibility. I mean the ones they serve. Because at some point, too, the payers say: 'Well, what is going on? "I who pays will be in a more unfavourable position vis-à-vis the other?" There now you need to think of some ways. There's thoughts to have bonuses for the adjuster. For what the bonus will be, I can't say today. But if we go into this debate at some point, either in the committee or anywhere, we can table the proposals. Now, as to whether it's sustainable, if you have 12 doses, you have the hundred doses and you have the running and a little good work. That means that as long as work goes well, you don't have room to pay for it, you just pay increased premiums. You don't have to pay the doses. If the job goes well and you have profits, you'll pay increased premiums, with the connection that has been made. So, in any case, he has a problem if he has to serve the current, the twelve doses and the hundred doses or one of them. That is where we need to think of a way that is not unfair to those who respect the regulation, but give a second chance to those who have not joined for any reason, at the corresponding cost, of course. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now the clearing that you say you do will offer nothing but the knowledge of the insurance system about what it has to expect, what is the real remnant that can be considered as collectible. That's where you'll have to be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the past, the Treasury had come here and said that 3 billion dollars could not be collected. And he brought an arrangement, and we said, "Well, will you delete corporate debts? What right are you going to erase them? Is the process safe, or are you debting some who can or have?’ I want to tell you that the process must be safe, not to fall into new adventures. Because this is a very important point, both on the positive but also on the negative side. I shall therefore conclude by saying that we need a new sustainable regulation, which will take all the cases. That does not mean - and I say it too - that people who already serve must stop the regulation, since they are able, of course, to serve it, but that the Ministry must do anything to get even more involved in this arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u22	Of course, money will never be given to any business. And that's why I said the example of the Petroleum Patreal. I'm talking about cases like this, which have been on paper for decades. You know that, Mr. Kegeroglu, we all know that. There's neither the Aegean nor the Petroleum Patraika, I don't know if Stratos Katsabas lives, who also had the responsibility of managing it. In such cases it is impossible to collect it. She's, like, completely dead, not even at a liquidation stage. Even at the liquidation stage, there is no way for an undertaking to write off debts to social security. The liquidation must be completed. There is nothing anymore and it is of course important to know the funds we have in order to define our policies. It's right to have a ripped-up portfolio. Because we are counting on funds to identify our policies, but they do not exist. In order to formulate sound policies, we must have a clear picture of the funds available. As far as debtors are concerned, you know it and they know it themselves now that they have a charge rate for those who pay in instalments. Therefore, those who are consistent are not harmed by the balances and the amount of the interest rate is now such that one cannot say that it encourages the person concerned to choose the inconsistency of payment, with the benefit of a future expectation of regulation. There's no such reason anymore. Therefore, you also rightly point out the need to consider those who have already joined in the favourable arrangements of Law.4321/2015 to maintain it, because these arrangements are so favourable that they cannot be replaced by others. The only thing that will happen after 1 January 2017 is that the system itself, which you consider will probably be charged, is based on the data and analyses we have, we are confident that it will facilitate the insured, because it is linked to actual net profits and not to fictitious evidence of the success of receipts, which led the free professionals and the self-employed to an absolute inability to pay the debts in previous years. Over 80.3% of debts have been created since 2009. The state of the economy, of course, contributes to such a result, and we need to see measures such as that that will strengthen the development and position of the insured in a way that really helps them. These will be the models that we will put into practice in the new system of collection and contributions combined with the actual and weighted possibilities of insured persons to pay contributions. We will do a lot of work on this, in a scientific way, to establish in an absolute and transparent way the actual income capacity of the insured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Alimos "Eleftherios Venizelos". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The third, with number 914/27-5-2016, is a top-level question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi", not discussed. Similarly, the 11th question under number 545/15-2-2016 is not being discussed in the context of a topical question from the Second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EAW. Also, they are not debated as a result of an impediment by the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion the tenth under number 794/18-4-2016 a topical question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steriou to the Minister for Health, on the need to prevent treatment and support for the cancerous Volos. Likewise, the twelfth under number 880/17-5-2016 timely question of the second question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegerolgos to the Minister of Finance on the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges. We enter the seventh under No. 909/27-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP, Georges - Dimitrios Karras, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reduction of widow's pensions, following the introduction of an age limit for them, following the adoption of the last multi-legislative plan on insurance. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, Minister, I raised the question by comparing the previous legislative regime. I am referring, Minister, to the 2010 Act, which was essentially the first memorandum on social security, which maintained widow's pensions without taking particular income or age criteria. Of course, it covered - and rightly - the issue of virtuality. He demanded that there be a certain duration of marriage before death. The 2016 law, which was passed on 12 May, proves not only harder but also completely obsessed for the reason that, with its criteria, Minister, when the widow is alone - because I am not referring to children, pregnancy or disability, so if she continues to pay the pension, I refer to those cases where the widow is alone, is under the age of fifty and has no children or has an adult child, so that she cannot be assisted by her children - the law is coming and tells us this: If death occurs within three or five years, depending on whether she is insured or retired, she will take three years of the pension of the deceased - let us say so - and then, with the completion of the three and fifty-five years of age, pension will be interrupted and retire at sixty-seven years of age, i.e. when the widow has completed her sixty-seven years of age. The regulation itself deprives the right to live, deprives the right to live in a woman who is outside the labour market and, in the light of the conditions established in the economy, is unable to find any work. We therefore believe that this injustice should be dealt with, Minister, because the number of these cases is not too large and in my dentistry I will invoke information from which this argument arises. It is not a great deal and therefore the burden that will be incurred in the insurance system is not very serious. And why am I saying it? You know better than me the report of the General Accounting Office, which mentions some amounts for 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, but includes disability pensions in this budget and it is not discernible what the granting of widow’s pensions could be to women who have been left alone until the age of 67. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will continue later, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Carras, I have already stressed - and with this opportunity I will do so with greater emphasis - that there is no widow's pension paid, which will be cut in any way. First of all, it must be clear to the people who listen to it. I do not know how many widows or widows after 13 May have emerged in the country, but the widows and widows who were retired and under the conditions they were given will continue to receive it. No cuts. Therefore, there is no need to worry. And I say this with an emphasis, and I would like to make it clear, because all Greece is concerned that pensions for widows and widows will be cut. It won't be cut. That's the one. And in the clear Greek "cut" language means that someone who takes it stops taking it. Let's go to the new definition of the rules for the payment of widow's pension from now on, that is after May 13, 2016. To those who have such an event, and who really are in a state of weakness, there is a question of social policy. And predictive policy is always in our care. Social security does not replace the welfare policy and welfare responsibility of the state to the citizens. Don't drive us, I mean, in a concept of caring for people. Pension is another thing. We reserve and ensure that the pension is maintained as long as there are minor children and, if they are studying, until the twenty-fourth year of their age. If the widow from the fifty-fifth year onwards occurs, she shall be fully paid for all those who are after the fifty-fifth year in such a situation. So what we need to take into account, to judge this provision, is what possibilities the new insurance system gives to everyone's social security, because the fragmentation of various insurance bodies according to the work done by each individual no longer exists as a reason for banning work and insurance. This fragmentation in many insurers, one in almost every sector of work, led to banning effects, because no one fulfilled the conditions, in accordance with the statutes of these funds to ever receive a pension, since the statutes provided for so many years of insurance in the fund, one or the other. Now, with the single insurance year that all Greeks have - because whatever work they do is to the single social security institution - they will have social security and will also have a pension. So we have to look at this as a new situation to judge the provisions on widowhood. One can now work and be insured to retire. And that is what we need to set as a target.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it is certain that from now on any death, the new law will be implemented. Therefore, it does not cover my question, Minister, the answer that previous pensions will be maintained. I did not refer to this fact. Second, from now on, you said he could get a job. Are the conditions on the labour market such that one can obtain evidence that he will find a job? Oh, no. Thirdly, have you taken into account what is happening in the European Union and, more generally, in similar cases? Because, from a rough survey I have been able to make, I have noticed: there are European Union countries that make the term of marriage conditional - I think it is right that we do not have virtual marriages - there are countries that do not set age criteria - Greece now sets age criteria - and there are countries which also set income criteria for the provision of widow's pensions. I'll testify everything I could gather. That, then, leads to a conclusion, in my view: that, first of all, Greece comes and says that if death occurs, the unborn, before the fiftieth fifth - I always speak of women who have no children, who do not study their children or have no disability - it will be retired for these three years and then it will wait for the sixty-seven. Minister, excuse me, but I'll say you made a mistake. You said that there is an innovative policy that will meet these needs. If I understood correctly, I think that you referred to it. I'll say something else, though. That Greek - he is in Greek's understanding, he is in our society - the man who pays insurance contributions is not only paying them for himself. The government's view may be different, but the Greek does not pay contributions for itself. He pays to cover his wife and children, in case the ruthless happens. This is therefore a precondition for the Greek worker and cannot be interrupted by a law. So now I will tell you whether or not it has economic costs what I ask and why I tell you that. I know you're a lawyer, and indeed you're a law-abiding lawyer. I read the Court of Auditors' decision and the Report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. You have been asked to challenge these provisions from the outset. They said that the Constitution protects the family - it is known that it is protected by Article 21 - and therefore, from that point on, we have the argument that the widow who is left alone must enjoy a decent living, which her new legislation deprives. I would also like to add this, Mr President, so that I do not go far. We see that in the proportionate study that has been presented, to draw safe conclusions, if there is a financial burden, if there is an undeniable need for the state to be saved, if some women are to be retired and you understand that I insist, Minister, that the deaths of young ages of men or women are still due to violent events. We say that there are dangerous professions, that there are increased risks of people working and losing their lives in the exercise of their duties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I see, then, in the proportional study that you have submitted that nowhere you can see the widow's and orphan's pensions given from here and now with statistics on what will be in its favour. So that leads me to think that it is not a great burden, because the Greek family has children and there are few women who will be left alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Carras, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u30	Immediately, Mr President. You must come back, Minister, to resolve this, because I must say that society considers that you are not unfair to a small number, but that is not the policy that Greece must pursue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u32	You have closed your position, Mr Carras, on the fact that if a widower occurs, it will be very few.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u33	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u34	Okay. I would point out what you have seen, to say that this is not a overthrow of social security. Social security seeks to establish rules of guaranteeing people's lives to cover the minimum decent limits, at least for everyone, and, of course, to build on everyone's ability, depending on their income participation in life insurance. That's the base. Death isn't luck to bring a positive result. Death is an unfortunate event. It's not supposed to happen, but it's happening. It's the only thing that can happen to the man with confidence once. When this is premature, unfortunately, it is an event relentless. The policy we have, within the framework laid down by the law, I think that ensures every human being in his/her needs - the one who has minors, who really needs to support children who are studying - and we have set the limit of fifty-five years and then as the starting limit for the payment of widow's pensions, without any conditions and restrictions. The costs expected from previous policies, which were included in the Hardouveli mail, calculated a reduction in the costs of the widow's pension, which really restricted us the option for the negotiation process. So we already had a negative starting point. However, I must tell you this because you have chosen, on a case-by-case basis, to say what applies to other countries of the European Union. You said, for example, that income criteria are a criterion to give. This applies to Sweden. All together were calling in the country, not to apply this, because it connects the pension to the property, and the pension must not be linked to the property. Now, you're suggesting what you all abducted before and accused us of doing. You said what happened over the years. The model we have here is what was in place in France, precisely in these measures. Nothing less has been introduced. I think that what will then come to a conclusion is that the policies that we mean to do at the prosperous level are welfare policies. And I said that it does not substitute for prostitutional policy any social security systems, which have other purpose and function. Therefore, issues that arise for families that will not be covered by such a case in the future, the state will need to strengthen pro-active policies for such individuals. And the government's positions on these cases are being proclaimed. Our aim is - and I stress it - to change the logic in our country, to give every citizen employment opportunities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall end with that, Mr President, immediately. The new system is a development system. I said it before. Perhaps, Mr Carras, the advantage of the new social security system, whatever work you do, whether it is the cultivation of a vineyard, a field, a pavilion, gathers for everyone who is called to work anymore, a basis on which it will be calculated and paid for in the future, while before May 2016, even before our law was passed, one had to actually complement such conditions that many could never complete in order to get a pension. It was impossible for many of them to complete for 15 years. The opportunity to do any work to fill out the time conditions is now given by the new law. I think that that's where we should all direct our thoughts, what we're going to do about this country that's broken. And that is what we have to do, give opportunities for employment, not only by giving the state jobs, but by finding society a way of doing things itself. We've done the Commons. We have taken various measures and we will do more for employment. That is the issue of our society and our policy. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Subsequently, the seventh question under number 889/21-5-2015 will be discussed in the context of the second question of the Attica MP, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the financing of the Foundation for the Children of "Pamakaristos". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. The foundation for the child, the "Pamakaristos", is a Legal Person of Private Law, is a certified welfare service provider and what it has been doing for several decades now is that it has a childcare facility. In other words, there are two classes with formal development children, where there are also part of the integration of children with development deficits. It has specific professional workshops for adolescents and young people up to 30 years of age with mild to moderate mental discomfort and these children with proper support can evolve and integrate socially and rehabilitate themselves professionally. He's got daily livelihoods. These are for teenagers and young people up to 30 years of age with serious development deficits. Here, in other words, we have serious cases of autism and serious mental backwardness. It also has a boarding school for girls of eight to thirty years old, which, apart from their own development deficits, is usually inappropriate or inability to have a child. There's, finally, a chat unit. The problem that has arisen in this institution over recent years is that, because of a number of factors - possibly some of them may be intervening, while some others do not have intervention - have huge economic problems. That is, in fact, now that the institution has been personally unpaid for ten months, it has debts to PPC that may exceed EUR 150,000 and has debts to the IKA. There's a risk of stopping electrodes. There are workers who will lose their job. The main problem, however, is that if it is closed down, about a hundred and fifty children and their families will suffer global catastrophe. It can't be handled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The speech I addressed to you in the question is that, in part, something can possibly be done by your Ministry, and in part, coordination with the Ministry of Health must be carried out. There are debts from the EEA, which may be prioritised, because we have a bad economic situation here. This is, of course, a matter for the Ministry of Health and EEA. There are, however, things that concern the Ministry, and above all here there is a significant income, resulting from warrants relating to the contractual obligation of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Welfare with a commitment of twenty-four beds. There is a delay in signing on behalf of the government, which has been running since 2014-2015. Here, in my opinion, we have to move this amount forward, put pressure on the payment of the ECYPY hospitals and pay the debts from the insurance funds to the institution so that, in any case, at first level, basic economic needs can be addressed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. First of all, the "Pamacarist" is not going to be closed, the employees will be paid. However, "Pamakaristos", like other institutions, which I could now say their names, but I do not want to, is the tip of the iceberg of a state, which, for forty years, and especially after the Civil War, has been the "Pamakarist" since 1953, as you know, founded charitable foundations Legal persons of Private Law to grant to these welfare, prosperous policy. In other words, they are Legal Persons of Private Law, in which the state is not able to intervene in their administration, and as long as the periods of welfare or charity, i.e. the great benefactors, gave, well done. When things started to get hard, it didn't go well. It does not go well because, in addition to others, these institutions have large properties, mismanagement. I do not mean 'Pamacarist'. The "Pamakarist" is a special case, because, as you know, it comes from a battalion of female nuns of universal integration - how to say it - universal dogma, very reliable and decent, which cares - let's say - to put things into an account. But we're going to change that, Mr. Voridis. There will be rules so that the state - as today you are giving me what I am finally doing for Pamacardos - can prevent the situation that has been created. In particular, regarding your questions, indeed the EEAS is not in my competences, but I asked and I was informed that the information in the EEA's Finance Directorate shows that debts have been repaid to the institution for the months January and December 2012. Because this story starts from a long time ago. He has been in debt since 2012. Also, debts have been repaid from January to July 2013 and for September 2013. August 2013 has not been paid, as well as October, November and December 2013. The years 2014 and 2015 have been repaid. All debts were made with a rough audit and accounted for 90% of the monthly expenditure. As for the part concerning Mr Petropoulos, i.e. the unregulated debts to the insurance funds, I came in contact with the principal yesterday. Because the "Parmalist" has a special problem and you know it. Pamakarsta, ladies and gentlemen, does not have a board of directors. Because with what the abbot and the battalion suggested, the faces, when they went to pick up and saw the situation, resigned self-determination. So there's the problem. I'm trying, although I don't have that responsibility, to set up a board of directors. Yesterday I finally received the assurance that the matter will be resolved by the middle or by the end of next week, as both the leader and the political actors have said. I am in contact with Mrs Durou, who can give an increased amount of grant to 'Pamacarist'. I've got the money ready to give it to her, but I don't have who to give it to, and there's no way to speed up the procedures. Also, Mr Psinakis, who is mayor, appoints the board of directors on a proposal from the monks. I'm trying to figure out a way to make sure we can pay because we have the money. That's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Fotou, I would ask you to be brief. On the other hand, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u40	Okay, as you wish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u41	And the evidence you want to report, you'll have time to report it. You could put it before Members for them to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u42	All right, Mr President, don't worry. However, the abbot has told me that they have been taken care of. You know it's the 12-month arrangement. So we don't have a problem from there. For PPC, I will intervene and try to do anything. The current can't be cut. Let me tell you that last year we gave them EUR 121,730 in the first semester, EUR 84,540 in the second semester and EUR 70,000 in the State lottery. We can do the same this year and at the same time - because we are giving it to the region and the region is giving it to Pamakaristos - and Mrs Durou has assured me that she will give it more. And she's waiting. So we hope to be able to unblock this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u44	As you can see, this is not a matter on which there may be political dispute. The aim here is to find a solution and I think we all understand the criticality and importance of the matter. The issue of the management board is indeed a problem and must be resolved. But this issue is largely linked to the economic situation. Because, as you can see, no one is going to take up a board of directors, and therefore some of them have criminal responsibilities, such as the non-payment of insurance contributions to the insurance funds, if it is not certain that these are going to be sort of settled and that there is a guarantee in this regard. So it's all connected. That is why I think it is important for your intervention today, and that is why it is important for the figures to be heard, because this will give a solution to the issue of the representation of the institution, will resolve the issue of the concern of individuals, that debts will be involved and charged, and that will allow the funds to be disbursed which will enable the Foundation to operate. All of them are together, namely, and this is a circle in which intervention must be made and solved. Now, I think that once there is a assurance from PPC that, in any case, we will in some way regulate the debts, once the workers have been paid, because that is important - they are people who have families, work there, have ten months without having taken their money, and this has to be settled - and once the rest is started in a certain way, I think the question of the representation of the board will be resolved, as people will be reassured that, in any case, they will not be in trouble if they take the administrative responsibility of the institution. It is very important that this quickly reaches a certain result, because the weather passes and there is a great deal of upset and anxiety and inconvenience. I think that it is not here to open a debate on who should or should not take on the privileged services. Everyone may have his views on this. It's a conversation. What I am interested in at this stage and that is why I want to raise awareness of the government with this question - I know that you have been in contact with parents, that you have been in contact with the legal person, that you have been in contact with the nuns and the abbot - is that it is very important that this issue can be resolved effectively. And this is to a large extent in your hands, not only yours, but also the government in general, because it also requires coordination of other ministries. I repeat that the EEAS may prejudge the repayment of these debts. It will make it easier and that is enough. So what I would like to ask you to do is to exhaust your possibilities in order to resolve this issue. It's very critical. I do not need to stress again the work that this institution provides to these families.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much Mr. Vorides. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u46	Mr Voridis, it is one of these difficult issues, which I hope we can reach agreement when the time comes in this House. Because we really intend to bring the National Uniform Solidarity System, which will be for the first time a framework law, and will regulate all the categories, the six vulnerable groups in our portfolio, namely: a child of this kind we are talking about - elderly, people with disabilities, Roma, homeless and unavoidable. In these six categories, we will make a three-tier system: a first-grade system, open, which will be mainly the municipalities responsible for open structures, and there it will have its subsidised character, the secondary one, which is the "Pamakarist" we are discussing and which I will come back to, and the tertiary level, which will be dehydration. Because the aim of all of us is somehow to open up the foundations and get people out, get society in, get people out, and slowly join society. In the second, there is this disharmony. There are seven hundred 50 institutions of private-law legal persons, in many forms, small NGOs, NGOs, non-profit companies, private-law charitable legal entities and, on the other hand, there are sixty-three and all of the public. This whole system will be changed and there we will have the debate to confront our ideological obsessions or not everyone. We want a public system, public features. I did not say that we would make it public, I said, 'public and uniform attributes'. Because if the state were able to intervene in the administrations, people would not find them ten months unpaid. What do I do when the workers come and tell me: "Tell us a date on which you will pay us." Is that up to me? And I'm telling them I have to push things in so that the board can get in. In the end, I have to give the money to Durus quickly. I've got them ready. I've got the contract ready. Tomorrow it's the board of directors and I'm giving them to Durus. Douru must immediately put extra money and give if she has. If he doesn't, let's give them. I must see favourable arrangements from here and then for all these institutions. Does PPC have to have a social invoice for all these institutions? Yes or no? We won't argue there. Understand? It's a whole story that we have to start. Aren't we starting her? I promise we will vote for him by the end of 2016. If we don't, until then we can't interfere. We're interfering with fire ex-post. The workers are exhausted. I have workers who don't have what to say to them. I'm being devastated from morning to night and denounced - and well people do - but how do I intervene? How can I intervene, tell me, after I have this situation? That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u47	Madam Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u48	Madam Minister, the sums you have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u49	I did. You want me to say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u50	Every six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u51	Mrs. Fotou, please as soon as possible. Time is falling, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u52	All right, Mr. President. Last year we gave 121,730 euros in the first half, 84,540 euros in the second half, 70,000 euros in the State lottery. Similarly, it will also be this year's and what the region will do. Again, if there's anything extraordinary, let's see it. But you understand that all these institutions have debts. I spoke to the chief yesterday, I had talked to the lawyers last week. They said to me 'Mrs. Fotio, we are not talking about such amounts, we are not talking about 150,000 euros', because I told them 'to see what we can do with the current'. I mention as an example the Athens Municipal Elderly. He's got 30 million debts. Workers are unpaid for twenty and thirty months. I'm telling you that one of the largest estates in the state has them. He hosts sixty old people and everyone. I went and I was told: "We don't eat, we are hungry, Mrs. Fotio." And five hundred seats are empty in five star buildings! What can I tell you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u53	All right, Mrs. Fotio. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u54	And I can't intervene, Mr. Voridis. So help us as an Opposition to change them quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u55	Good, Minister, thank you. We continue with the fifth under No 919/30-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the "criminalisation" of farmers' struggles. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is continuing its policy of previous governments has now become apparent in a very large world. What has also begun to be evident is that, in order to impose this policy, in addition to deception, which has close legs, it makes use of the same forms and instruments. I am referring to means and measures of authoritarianism, criminalisation and repression, such as those which have been applied in recent years to farmers, agricultural mobilisations and other sectors of workers. And we say this because, at the moment, tens are in progress, literally, criminal cases against farmers throughout Greece, who have been mobilised, fought in the past few years - and this year - in the forms of struggle they collectively chose, against a policy that extinguishes them, destroys them and destroys them. There are cases at the moment, at all stages and at the stage of preliminary examination and at the stage of persecution, trial and conviction. The government's responsibility is not only that it took no action, despite the proposals that were made by our party, but also by Members of Parliament in previous years, to eliminate the criminal offence of such acts, not only did Article 292 of the Criminal Code, which deals with the blockade of communications - because on the basis of this article criminal prosecutions are carried out and the trials are carried out - but on the basis of the essence it is mocking farmers. We say this because at the meeting that had taken place, a delegation of rural blocks with the Prime Minister, there was a commitment at that time on the part of the Grand Maximos. In fact, a statement by the Prime Minister's Press Office came out that: "The Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is directly concerned", this is a communication from the Press Office of the Prime Minister, "to introduce regulation, which will introduce the conditional limitation of the traffic blockages that have been carried out so far." Three months have passed - if I am not mistaken - and not just there is no such arrangement, despite the fact that there have been repeated amendments by the JRC's parliamentary group, but all these cases of persecution and persecution continue. In fact, on June 15, there are too many cases in Larissa for such offences. We really want the answer from the Ministry about what it will do to an issue that is serious and after all is a commitment from the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Gioka, first of all you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much and apologise for the previous times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u60	You're welcome. I would like to say that the government's sensitivity to demonstrations that present social demands is given. Its effort to dismantle situations is also a given one. On the other hand, it has a legislation and a Constitution. Even better formulated, it must function within the framework of a constitution and legislation. Our legislation in Article 292 of the Criminal Code has penalised - until Law No.4356, which is recent - with a great penalty, with a strict penalty, for acts of blockage of transport. The serious penalty was due to the fact that the same provision as it was also in the way that there was a blockade to the safety of citizens, which is not the characteristic of the cases you are referring to. The Government, therefore, by means of its legislative intervention, has made a serious reduction in the penalty under Article 292(1) and Article 291 of the Criminal Code, and also the introduction of other arrangements, which are also in favour of the accused, the perpetrators or the perpetrators of the actions in question, such as the introduction of a legal remedy for reparation of the sentence, i.e. the court may exempt and the negligence of negligence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As you can see, a very serious step has been taken to alleviate, up to discharge, these crimes. I will now tell you what way there is further intervention in this field in the fight against extinction, which you are asking for. Conditional limitations are an entirely exceptional option within the Greek system of exemption for people, because otherwise the only way to exempt ourselves provided for by our Constitution is for amnesty, which has certain other conditions. The Ice Bay's Plenary Assembly has agreed twice in similar legislation that it can be abolished, called 'conditional limitation', under conditions, which are that it has been long since the end of the operation, that the deeds should not be heavy and also the limitation - or the removal, as you call it - should be granted under one condition, because otherwise it cannot be differentiated from the amnesty which, according to the Constitution, has other conditions for granting. Did these cases happen? Until just now, they weren't there, because the sentences were strict. With the reform we have been doing, that is possible... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Mr. President, could I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u61	Minister, you have a second-guessing right. You know that. You can, if you want, so that I don't interrupt your siren, finish, but we'll take the time off your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u62	All right, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr Gioka, however something else is going on in this particular case. Especially in my view, amnesty in such cases cannot be ruled out if the procedure provided for. I am, if I am not mistaken, the only one among criminals who, in unsuspecting time in Criminal Law in 2008, have captured an opinion that I had previously developed in articles, in which I believe that the most political one can be recognised in protest crimes and not in homicides or acts of terrorism, but in those crimes that political character is dominant and crime of a secondary and light nature. This is the case with the average crime of the protest. So I have no objections to a request for amnesty. Of course, there will have to be a majority in Parliament. The rest in my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u64	Minister, we have no reason to question personal sensitivities, democratic and so on, nor is this the purpose of the timely question. Sensitivity is, however, judged on the basis of the outcome and is judged in practice by whether a government - not a person, a minister closely - legislates a matter which is serious, it is urgent - I tell you that on 15 June there are too many trials in the area of Thessaly, particularly in Larissa - and it regulates an issue really on the basis of the right of a sector, of workers, farmers, to mobilise and fight with the forms of struggle they choose, with their right to dignity, life, survival and they go by saying. So the question here remains, when you change it. The regulation you made with the law on the cohabitation agreement - and I remember it, because I was a special speaker on the side of the JRC's parliamentary group - did have some changes. But in essence the legislative framework remained intact. And that is why we have told you that, despite the changes, it is not possible - to criminalize racing and mobilisation, and this has proved to be very soon next year. Let me remind you that the order of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow was made on whether the offence of traffic blocking this year's mobilisations has been committed after the change and modification of the law. It didn't happen before. Also, at the meeting with the Prime Minister and representatives of rural blocs, it was in the Prime Minister's knowledge that the article had already changed and that this change is not enough, either to stop criminal prosecutions, trials or even to avoid further suffering for farmers. I will tell you, I will submit it in the Minutes, where you can get it: Tripoli, Argos for mobilizations of 2011, 2012, 2013, Larissa, Thessaly, calls for preliminary examination for this year's mobilizations, with every change you made in the 292 of the Criminal Code. I'll testify to it in the Minutes, so it'll also be in your knowledge. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Giokas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, this thing here, this industry at the expense of mobilising farmers and other workers' branches must stop. We made a proposal as a party, tabled an amendment, you can improve it. This amendment has twice been rejected, by way of summary procedures, in bills here in the House. You can bring or find a legal way to eliminate the criminality of these acts. I would remind you that there has been a legal precedent since 1997, when there was a corresponding arrangement, which had been introduced and the criminal precedent of such acts had been eliminated. And, basically, Article 292 of the Criminal Code must be changed so that the offence of blocking traffic does not turn to the detriment of mobilisation of farmers or other workers, who collectively choose, I repeat, such forms of struggle. It is your responsibility, therefore, to find the way and quickly, in order to change this unacceptable regime, which, after all, was your commitment and pre-election before January 2015, but I remember many SYRIZA Members also the amendment that you have repeatedly tabled - and supported it - but that was, of course, until January 2015. From there on, despite the fact that we have tabled it many times, neither the Government nor any member of the SYRIZA has supported this amendment of the JRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Gioka, first of all I am well aware that my sensitivities are of no interest to anyone. And they shouldn't be interested in anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u67	No, I didn't question them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u68	I get it. Thank you. But it's not about each other's sensitivities, it's about theorists. The point is that political is a prerequisite for institutional action. That is why I am saying this because I really believe that there are conditions here for certain institutional actions, as I said before. The difficulty is that we need a regulation concerning specific categories of citizens. We cannot generally decriminate the blockade of transport. We need a criminal regulation in this case. As persecution is pending, photographic, if you want, intervention or intervention for only some citizens are extremely difficult in constitutional and technical terms. There is now a way out. The way out is that the exercise of constitutional rights, such as the right to a meeting, must lead to a lifting of the unfair nature of blocking traffic. But that is what justice will appreciate right now, without the House being able to intervene. The House has two instruments: amnesty - which is why I mentioned earlier my positions on political crime - and on conditionality. I assure you that the Ministry will do its utmost in the second direction and take initiatives. Amnesty is a matter of Parliament in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-six students and students and two teachers at the 3rd Primary School of Porto Raftis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Next is the first with number 921/30-5-2016 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the need for spatial planning. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tsironis. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with this question I wanted to express the anxiety not only of mine, but of all those who have fought in previous years - and first you - on issues such as spatial planning. You know that the growth model followed from the past period, over the past few years, by previous governments, was perforated. That was, in my opinion, the intention. It served them, to develop the complexity, customer relations and so on. There were no clear spatial planning or, where there were, favoured profitable businesses, which plucked interest. No logbook was completed, no forest maps were completed, the institutional framework for the protection of the NATURA regions has been completed. You know them very well. Of course, you have played games and we recognize it. And you have lately played for forest maps as well. I would now like to confine myself to tourism, even though everything I have said to you before we are interested in it. Overcoming the question of evaluation and slowly or, if you like, sharply and violently on a development path, we must have the necessary tools. So the tools that they did not have or the distorting tools that the previous ones had either to correct or we have to see how to create our own. I know very well that it takes a lot of time for spatial planning. But we must stop everything that has been done so far - and I am becoming specific - for tourism and for saturated regions such as, for example, in Kos and other islands... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. ...to be built, that is, continuously - and in the past few years the previous governments - huge hotels, five-star hotels, not only at the expense of the local economy, but also at the expense of the natural environment. They gave the right to overcapacity and thus created a huge problem in the local economy. They share the pie and the tour operators fruit it. And as long as it goes, small businesses, much more that these businesses work with the system all inclusive. While it is growing - and this is important - arrivals and is supposed to benefit local society, workers, micro-enterprises, etc., it is the opposite. We are, in other words, in a model that will eventually absorb all the wealthy resources in the region and will continue to go elsewhere. You know that very well. The area, while studies have been declared a long time ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Kamaterre, you have a second. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u72	All right, Mr. President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you have raised an issue which is very complex and hot. Indeed, as you quite rightly said, we have received a regional tourism policy which was perforated. I do not need to argue politically on this, because the Council of State has already declared the special landfill for tourism invalid, the last of the previous government, to be invalid. In fact, as far as we are concerned, the contributions are very negative - I certainly cannot prejudge justice - but we are afraid, there are these indications, that the 2009 spatial plan, the previous one, is in danger of falling into the Council of State. In fact, this appeal has been delayed because only lawyers are absent. It would probably have fallen and had a very serious problem. I am going to make an opinion, which is not my opinion, which is an opinion of scientists, and I am being taken by the peasants at their conference that these specific spatial planning had a major problem. They went to speed up, supposedly, investment in an activity, tourism in the private sector, in a completely wrong way. This was a way of overcoming these specific regional spatial planning. In other words, the private investor's wish to take up a placement and use of land in an area from the region's overall spatial planning, whether it is called wind turbines, whether it is called a large hotel unit or whatever it is called. This logic of special spatial planning should not go, that is, as a state to say what this region needs, what it has, what we want in total, and after specific spatial planning, so that they can serve this policy, we have gone backwards. That obviously didn't lead anywhere. Lead to the results you know. The problem is that at the moment we are in a situation really not having spatial tourism. The one we have since 2009 is under sect. They don't know whether the services will or won't, so we can step up and build a new one. On the other hand, the other side has already been abolished by the Council of State. So at the moment, what we are doing is that we have intensifiedly set up the standards of the new spatial planning. From that point on, we appreciate - if we rely on the Services we have, because we have no other way at the moment, unless we assign work outside, but that means expenditure that we are not currently able to cover it - we believe immediately in the coming months, by the end of the year, to have the new spatial planning. All of this will be answered there and I will continue in my denology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Minister, it is very pleasant what you are saying, because it is very difficult by the end of the year to have a new spatial planning. We know it takes a long process. But let me ask the question and insist on it: what will happen until then? I say this because we will soon also vote for the development law and the development law will run and investment will be sought, aid will be made. I say this not to do the same as others did and go where they went, which not only will not help the development of the region, much more of the island, but will create distortions and more problems. We know how much we need these development programmes to be channelled to small and medium-sized enterprises and joint ventures and we will also discuss them in the development law. In my opinion, we need to find insurance for how they do not do the same things that were done in the previous period. Allow me here in my time, Mr President, to place myself on something. Because on this point, there should be no other hotels in saturated areas - which have been overcrowded for 15 years - I have expressed an extreme view that, if that is the case, even the government will fall. And because a large proportion of Greece has been allocated, let me have a brief placement. Yeah, it's an extreme position, which wants to express the extreme pressure we're going to exert - and I personally - so that this thing doesn't happen. Why, you know, did not ask the question "but, well, did you not drop the government and vote for everything here, memorials, etc., and threaten these individual issues here?" Look, firstly, there are some things that are reversible and others that are not reversible. In other words, the economy to a certain extent, with all the problems, is irreversible. The destruction of a region, a region and an island in particular is not reversible. Secondly, the world up to now - because we have to express ourselves here and, if we do not express it, resign - understands to some extent, endures, displeased, but awaits the Memorandum commitments. He understands that and endures and we can explain it. We cannot explain and will not wait for things that have nothing to do with the Memorandum commitments. And it has nothing to do with these commitments to prohibit other major hotels from becoming hotels in these areas. It has nothing to do with the Memorandum of Understanding to prohibit investment. Example of this feature, in Kos, took place across Kalymnos with a grant of climbing center in a hotel. Where? Against Kalymnos, who needs to develop for climbing tourism! Nor can we allow another fish farm to be grown in Kalymnos. It is not a Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u77	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u78	I do not want to misuse time, Mr President. That is what we are expressing with these extreme positions and that we are at risk from this, namely the issues which are not dependent on memoranda and not on these great and serious commitments that we are voting on for these reasons and for this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start sharing your anxiety. I am the first to say that in both Parliament and as an active citizen I have stressed that with a pension, which is not exactly what we want, we can step on our feet one, two, three years and review it. We can review, if we are a socially sensitive government, really once the economy starts and is uprooted, so that we can change the whole institutional framework for both jobs and wages and for all of this. The patience of society really supports us, and that is why it has supported us in two elections. But you are absolutely right that there are acts that are irreversible. It's acts that don't come back. They destroy and cannot then correct disasters, such as, for example, how we built our cities. That is why a spatial planning is not just a pillar of development, it is truly and legendary, if it is not right for spatial planning, for underdevelopment, for a predator economy, which the country has experienced for decades and has finally led to rocks. I share all this. However, there is a limit. When you want to turn a situation, it doesn't turn within a couple of hours. For example, there are currently businesspeople with rights. They've taken some leave, they've got a presidential decree from the Council of State. It's not simple. First of all, even if you were going to stop such an investment, if it has already been launched, the other can go to any courtroom and throw the decision at you and tell you: "Sir, I have created it. If in the previous law I had the right to have a grocery store here, it cannot suddenly be, while I have already done my paperwork and my investment, to tell me now is forbidden." There is - they say - a transitional period which actually comes to the Ministry of Investment, which I can honestly say I do not believe as a citizen, I do not believe them as a man who is monitoring spatial planning, we do not have positive suggestions from scientists in spatial planning, but we still have to sign them. Many of them - you said earlier about the memorandum - are already a memorandum. I would remind you that a few weeks ago we achieved a very big victory, namely to abolish Chapter II of Law 4269, and you know very well that the n. 4269 is considered a Memorandum Law of 2014 and this capital was the worst. The regional planners themselves said in every tone that "happily it is not possible to place the country with Law 4269", which is a monument of poor legislation, in my humble opinion and in the opinion of scientists. The fact that we took Chapter II is a step in the direction that is taken. Now, in the Polynomial Plan - he probably went to the high - Chapter II was abolished and he gives us a freedom to go directly to do a job for the uses of land, to protect what you say. Nevertheless, I stress the point, which has been created, by investments which have already been made, it is not possible to stop them by pressing a button. Probably - and I cannot go into individual examples - that people should suffer one, two, five more such investments, even if the local community does not believe them, because already, let us say, these investors had made an action, which has created them rights and I say so without being a lawyer. I'll say something else too. Putting rolls down on all investments and saying in theory at the moment that "I ban everywhere until I have a new spatial plan", would be much worse and of course our government won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u81	I didn't say that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u82	I know. But I say we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 918/30-5-2016 top-level question of the first-round question of the Iraqi MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the treatment of topical and fisheries issues of Heraklion Prefecture. The timely question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am very aware of the efforts you and our Government have made to keep the agricultural sector on the ground. You also know better than me that in recent times the rural world and the fishermen of Heraklion Prefecture have been fighting for two topical issues, the responsibility of your Ministry. The first issue concerns the allocation of the definitive rights to basic aid. The way in which the administration of OPEKEPE is moving is currently bringing our Government to bear on the issue of aid. The question arises of the most famous form 6, with the risk of the loss of the rights of farmers, who have previously completed the form, which has now not been accepted by the OPECE to determine the rights and have forced them to proceed with the objections procedure. In addition, there is the issue of late activations, that is, cases that, for a serious reason, did not activate their rights, losing rights for the next five years and having registered rights in 2014. Finally, in this connection, the case of all the ineligible cases is pending and for which the world has also objected, and the farmers concerned, are waiting to hear something younger. A second issue, related to the topical and urgent subjects to be answered, is the fact that in the context of the consultation of the joint notice on measure 19 CLD/LEADER of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme and of the priority axis 4 of the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme 2014-2020 of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the Special Management Agency of the ESDP shall stipulate that ‘employment in the fisheries and aquaculture sector to the total employment of the fisheries and aquaculture regions shall be at least 0,55%’. It is an indicator depriving Heraklion of the possibility of claiming funds from the ESDP for a second ongoing programming period. Because I know and have proven in practice that our government stands and considers the rural area, the primary sector, an integral part of the country's productive reconstruction, I would like to ask: Firstly, what is the programming for form 6, payment time, number and range of beneficiaries? What about the delayed activations and what about the ineligible ones? Secondly, because the development of fisheries and the exercise of all the available fisheries development programmes are of direct interest to Crete and of course Heraklion, why is the Heraklion Prefecture excluded from the fisheries programme, since according to the 2011 census, the indicator does not cover any area of the prefecture and the smaller area that can be implemented is this with at least ten thousand inhabitants? Also, in this connection, what measures will be taken to support fisheries and support the coastal areas of Heraklion from the fisheries programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u86	My dear colleague, as you are surely aware, is at the heart of the implementation of a new CAP, whose regulatory provisions create us problems like those which you have described - indeed these problems are happening - in their implementation. Let us make it clear, however, that this is the first year our country has no financial corrections, i.e. fines, in the allocation of rights. I'm not saying there are no problems. The point is that the rights 31-12-2014 expired and were granted in accordance with the criteria of European Union, of course also national legislation. In order to grant the new rights for the year 2015, the reference year was set in 2013. That is the regulatory obligation. Therefore, farmers who submitted a single application for aid in the year 2013 and who also met certain conditions had direct access to the basic payment scheme. These farmers were granted a number of allowances equal to the number of eligible hectares declared in the 2015 single payment application. At the same time and in accordance with the provisions laid down in European legislation, reference year for the calculation of the unit value of the new entitlements of the basic year 2015 is the year of applications for aid 2014. In particular, in order to calculate the initial unit value of the basic payment entitlements, the value of the single payment entitlements held by the farmer in 2014 was taken into account. In this number of rights - take note of this because it has caused many problems - there are only ones that are rented by another farmer. In other words, only the allowances granted or transferred are definitively calculated as the final date for the submission of the 2014 single payment application. The value of the leased rights shall be taken into account for the calculation of the initial unit value of the owner’s rights, provided that the owner fulfils the conditions for granting the rights and provided that the single payment application for 2014 is submitted in a timely manner. In addition, where the farmer meets the conditions for the allocation of allowances from the national reserve, whether a young farmer or a new entrant farmer, and its unit value is below the regional average of the year 2015, then the unit value of the allowances shall be increased to the regional average of 2015. So we have this possibility to go to this correction, while at the same time keeping in mind that the rights of the national reserve are not subject to the convergence rules. If there's any problems on the track, corrections are possible. It is not the conditions for this part to be very strict. As you can see, this is a complex matter. In my dentistry, I'll say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to start backwards. First of all, in relation to fisheries, although you did not stand in your first answer, I think it would be reasonable for the indicator to be determined from at least 0.55% to 0.36%, namely on the country's average, or at least to take account of the elements of the Rural Development Directorate for each regional section. In any case, it is clear that the country needs a clear framework for defining fishing zones so that areas that may play a crucial role in the development of fisheries are not excluded. I consider Crete to be among them and in that sense I am making this proposal. To come to the question of farmers' subsidies. Minister, it is obviously a success of the Services that this was the first year we had no fines from the European Union. This does not, however, overlook or overlook a serious problem that exists. There were parents who gave the property to their children, grandparents who gave the property to their grandchildren, there were farmers who rented their property to other people to manage and cultivate the land. It cannot be an answer and we accept an answer 'the money has been lost'. Where'd they get lost? No property has been dismantled, this agricultural property that exists and, therefore, the agricultural production, which we want to see derived from this agricultural property, has been eliminated. In my opinion, therefore, we must intervene in this. I believe, Minister, that, firstly, we need to see the issue of objections obviously with a timetable and be clear to the farmers who are waiting for answers at the moment. I believe that, regardless of the objections, the Services are in a position to know how many people did not get money this year that they took until last year. They can be seen by the Services and checked, regardless of how many have lodged objections or not. At the same time, I believe that here, in the whole story of 'form 6', let me say this in order to understand what we are talking about, it seems to be serious deficiencies in the administration of OPEKEPE. In my opinion, any administration of any organisation is not to produce politics and go out to say 'the money has been lost' - I stood at it before - but to best implement government policy. Secondly, the government must send out a message, that it does not leave these farmers and every citizen in this country free of charge, only in the reasonable shortcomings or, if you want, in my opinion, also in any of the political purposes of any of the agencies. Beyond the question of the right of farmers to take their money, their children, tenants or tenants, of the property being entitled to the aid, I would ask you to rethink the issue of the shortcomings of the OPEKEPE administration, with the question, I believe, of the immediate replacement of any inadequate officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u90	My dear colleague, we didn't say we were doing our job perfectly. I repeat once again that we must comply with the regulations of the European Commission directives, because we have so many other issues with them, and we must not give them the opportunity, especially for violations of these regulations, to create additional problems for us. OPEKEPE operates within this framework. Of course, there may be mistakes in this process, but we will try as far as possible to correct situations. We have said that with young farmers there is a big problem, which arises because of rights, as to whether they are transferred or not. You know it's a complicated process. We have a national reserve, which we will use. At the same time, we have already raised this issue with the European Commission, whether with a procedure of tolerance to the implementation of the regulation, we are resolving this great problem. It's open. I repeat again that, as far as the objections are concerned, they can now, by 15 June, if they call for a particular reason, to help us as well so that, in the context of the discussions with the European Union, we can resolve this particular problem. Now, with regard to the other question you have about the ESDP 2014-2020, within the framework of the consultation, the invitations we particularly address to the local groups, from the point of view of Heraklion, of 'NANAVYXIAKIS', but also other comments we have from those who are interested in. We will take them seriously. We have not completed the relevant procedure. We're working on them. And what we really want, of course, particularly with regard to the part of the ESDP, is the big issue of not just conservation but also strengthening fish stocks, while, of course, we need to find ways especially for coastal and island regions, so that we can - as is all about - maintain social and economic cohesion. But we have a road ahead of us and we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second with number 911/27-5-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the integrated quartz protection system for producers of the Regional Unit of Kavala. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am stirring up the issue of the region of the regional unit of Kavala to the national anti-hail protection system by means of air, but also by extension to an integrated anti-hail protection system in the region, because I believe that, on the one hand, it is a matter of enormous importance to the rural world of the region, in particular, because the period we are going through is the suspected period of risk of hailing and, therefore, it is not worthwhile - I think - for them too - to trembling their card literally every time black clouds appear in the sky and a risk of hailing. On the other hand, because I believe that if this problem is resolved, as has been expressed by both ELGA and you in previous debates - it is the fourth time that I bring this issue to Parliament, second time with a timely question - money will be saved in the ELGA, due to the payments systematically paid to farmers in the Regional Unit of Kavala whenever their production is affected by quartz. I shall mention three points, in order to keep a few dentistry as well: the region of the Kavala Regional Unit is indeed suitable for inclusion in the programme, because under conditions of subsistence at the Ministry it is sufficient for there to be quarantine rates, for there to be significant crop value and, of course, the level of compensation paid to be reasonable. Here on average is paid annually, according to data from the 2000-2009 period, 1.6 million on average to the farmers in the region. It is the sixth in a row of indemnity in Greek. The conditions are therefore met. There are infrastructures, two airports, dynamic crops and quarantine frequency, and these conditions are met. Growings, I say to have a full picture of what this is all about: thirty thousand acres, over a total of five hundred forty with vines to the west of the prefecture, fifteen thousand acres with kiwi - last year eight and a half thousand million of export guidelines - trees which cannot be protected by net protection - want another kind of protection - about ten thousand acres of asparagus, fifteen thousand acres with almonds, five thousand acres with fruit trees and two and a half million olive trees. As you can see, it's huge agricultural production, it needs protection. I think that the proposals - because it is good to come with proposals, you also say so systematically from the government - are the following: firstly, that the Regional Unity should be included in the existing air anti-purpose programme. It is mainly active in the areas of central Thessaly, there is room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you've already exceeded three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u94	Second sentence, to make better management and distribution...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u95	I'll let you know or I'll warn you that I'll cut off your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u96	All right, Mr. President, I'm closing. And third sentence, as an alternative, according to a proposal from universities from the Democritus University of Thrace, installation of a new generation of weather radar in Nestos for early warning of danger. ELGA's finally making money, and I think it's a very advantageous solution. I'll tell the rest in my brief second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u97	The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostleu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u98	Indeed, Mr Colleagues, we have discussed the matter before, it has also been answered by us. The quartz protection programme, as you know, applies mainly to two areas in Macedonia and Thessaly. The implementation has been carried out in these regions because there has been a study, the results of which have been taken into account for its implementation. The programme specifically for central Macedonia referred to shall be implemented in cooperation with the known contracting company ‘3D’. The contract for the implementation of the programme provides for the possibility for ELGA to modify or add, as you mentioned, the protection areas above for ELGA, retaining the right to identify the implementation areas and after the signing of the contract with the contracting company. It is, indeed, the ELGA receiver of many requests from farmers and their bodies to extend the programme to other regions. They used to be meetings. Especially in 2015, we will have problems in the already possibility of covering the area if we go to new ones. This was in 2015. However, because there is this perseverance, we have already entered a process at this time by also calling for the participation of the Centre for Meteorological Applications, so that we can haunt it and see how we will identify the other areas affected by hail, and there is the possibility of extending anti-hail protection to the other regions as well. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u100	Mr Minister, if I am not mistaken, you have just said that you are now considering this possibility. A lot has been said, but a lot has not been done, or rather nothing has been done so far. I hope, from now on, that there is nothing worse for a farmer than a sharp, sudden dramatic destruction of his production within a few minutes literally of a hail. It is disastrous for production, it is disastrous for the future, because the damage done due to quarries does not only cover the current growing season, but many products and subsequent growing seasons. Of course, it is extremely heartwarming for the farmer's effort in all these difficult circumstances. You said too - and I agree with you - that the ELGA reserves the right without additional financial burden to add additional protection areas by amending the regions and amending the terms of the contract. This can be done. I insist that ELGA saves money from such an amendment so that the region of the Regional Unit of Kavala, not only is there a western Kavala, where there are vines, which are protected from the nets, the other anti-grass protection instrument or - even -'standards', a more outdated but effective place of protection, but also the region of eastern Kavala to the areas of Thrace, that is, the area of Nestos, where there are mainly trees, the kiwidths with 100% export product, and also fruit trees - is a new trend and very developing - and, as is well known, the tree farming system cannot be protected by means of nets, which is also cost-effective and must therefore also be extended to the eastern Kavala, in the fertile and productive area of Nesto by air. Obviously, there is a cost issue. I understand that this cannot be done at zero cost. But, firstly, there could be better management of the existing instruments with a system of early warning of severe weather phenomena, so that there is a means available in the dangerous area, a pilot plane, when we say in the other area also covered by the programme there is no provision for a dangerous weather phenomenon, so better management. And secondly, no matter how much this cost is, I ask: Can it amount to more than EUR 1.6 million per year on average, which is the amount paid for quarantine compensation by ELGA, in the Regional Unit of Kavala? I'm telling you it's not half. It's probably one-third. It is therefore in the interest of the service to examine all the data, to amend the contract, so that it is subject to this protection net and the Kavalas Regional Unit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u101	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u102	As I told you, the ELGA will save money, but the farmers will also show greater confidence in the ELGA. At the moment they are surrounded with distrust because they believe they will not be covered by any damage. It is therefore of interest to everyone to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u104	In view of the continued implementation of the ELGA programme - because what we have now ended in 2018, so in 2019 we need to enter a new contract - we are indeed planning, through a pilot implementation in the period 2017-2018 and with all the elements we have, and we want to move as far as possible to the use of the other conditions at our disposal and see how we will satisfy issues relating to new areas. But I want to make one thing clear. Under no circumstances will the provisions of the existing Convention be violated and the effectiveness of the programme in the areas currently covered will be affected. What I would like to say to you, furthermore, is that in the context of active protection for quartz in crops, the ELGA successfully grants protection with anti-hail networks, with good absorption, particularly in the regions of the Regional Unit of Kavala. In addition, the body is installed and anti-hailing sound guns in the Pangea region of Kavala to deal with the phenomenon. My dear colleague, your concern really will be taken into account, especially when we seem to have the possibility of having better and more effective anti-hailing protection in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with number 915/27-5-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the production of feta from imported milk. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The feta is, if necessary, the number one brand name in the cheese field worldwide, proven. They all say so and they all admit it. The problem is with the Greek governments. The problems began with the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK, where the co-legislative ministers blocked the exclusive use of the name 'feta' in the agreement between the European Union and Canada. While in the European Union the name is a protected designation of origin and no one else can produce cheese and call it "feta", in the agreement between the European Union and Canada this exclusive right was released by the previous ministers. Unfortunately, however, the current government in the negotiations that are taking place - from what we are learning and we would like, Minister, to disprove us about this - between the European Union and the countries of South Africa has not made any mention of the feta, so that we have similar phenomena to Canada. The same - and here too we would like an explicit commitment from you - is what we are waiting for today, which is why the question is about the most important negotiations which are taking place - secretly and without the possibility of many to know what is going on - between the European Union and the United States of America, the famous TTIP agreement, where not only there will we have the exclusive right to produce feta for America, but also for other countries, but they will be able to appeal to the administrations of American companies and even though the product is PDO, they will be able to use and sell cheese called "feta" and it will be made up of even almond oil or anything else. I'm finishing up, so I can ask the question. Minister, the information says about the tragic situation that we will also start in our country producing slices of imported sheep and goat milk, which is completely contrary to the existing legislation on how a cheese is to be called feta. You know very well that even the Aegean islands and Ionian islands cannot call feta cheese that they produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, the use of imported sheep and goat milk for the production of feta, as you have said, is explicitly forbidden. If there are specific complaints about the use of such milk and, as you have said, of cheese products, it has not come to our attention nor, of course, to the 'ELGO - DIMITRA' which is the responsible control body. But it will also be briefed by me and you after your position, the ELGO, to truly carry out the check. Because such procedures are not that they compete in terms of raw material costs to the local producers, but are undermining what we are already fighting for, the specificity of feta, which is primarily due to the raw material produced in our country, which is linked not only in terms of the origin of goat and sheep milk, but mainly in terms of the bladder situation of our country, which gives this particular feature to be able, through the geographical indication, as has now been laid down for feta, to support it. So I, too, believe that we, too, should disprove and not do this because it is disastrous for our livestock sector, indeed. You mentioned somewhere in the question about the duration of the use of ovine and caprine milk. The majority of sheep and go either for cheese-making or yoghurt-making. So there the expiry date is related to the product. The milk available for consumption is very little. Fresh milk is mainly cow's milk. Indeed, at this time the negotiations, especially the European Commission with third countries, are, I would say, in a process that others are running, others are preparing, others are closed. The most serious negotiation of all is the one that starts now and has to do with the United States of America, what we call the transatlantic agreement. We have not yet received the texts, beyond what has been leaked. And there really seems to be very difficult things. But we, in particular, are constantly highlighting the issue of protecting geographical indications. Honestly, there is no Council of Agriculture Ministers, in which the relevant debates are being held, in which the necessity has not been established and, above all, the lack of the European Commission to support our own PDO products in particular, at least in the way in which it supports the relevant products from other countries. We've had multiple meetings. We haven't. Within the days there will be an initiative from our side, in particular by addressing the Committee on Production and Trade, from which all Greek Members will be informed on exactly what comes with all agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we insist on the forthcoming agreement between the European Union and South Africa, which all the information says there has been absolutely no concern about the name of the feta. Secondly, you know, basically goat milk has, as milk, an increasing tendency to eat. So that's where you'll have to take some measures. Once you adopted the OECD toolbox, and you have forgotten it until the milk of eleven days has been considered fresh, cow farmers have actually been destroyed. At least protect farmers who have goats, sheep, goats. For the control mechanisms you should draw particular attention to, because the information is very specific, as you have seen in the question, and you know that, unfortunately, in this country we are baptizing very easily not only milk but also imported lambs, we are baptizing peaches, potatoes, everything Greek at the expense of the Greek producers. We have also seen a defeat - and this is your defeat - where another country of the European Union, the Czech Republic, will be able to produce Greek yogurt - God and their soul to do so! - on the grounds of the European Union. The opinion is - and you know it - that it is not about the place but about the way it is produced. The term "Greek" seems to indicate that it is from Greece. Let it be Czech yogurt according to Greek standards. This was a defeat of Greece and we see that, due to the OECD toolbox, this defeat will continue and will lead to total destruction. We have a question and would we like an answer: for the forthcoming agreement with both the South African countries and with the Transatlantic Agreement, does Greece not have the right to veto? Because, if I remember correctly and you know it better, Minister, about the agreement with Canada, the Greek farmers said "do not sign any agreement and let us leave the snake out of the hole, go to the courts, because if the country signs an agreement, then tie the hands of farmers and they can do nothing". We reiterate that we want a commitment, not for us, but for the Greek citizens and especially the farmers, that you will take all the necessary steps to prevent our sovereign rights from being dismantled on this issue. Unfortunately, only we Golden Dawn bad guys seem to be hurting this very serious issue. After all, what is the point of being in the European Union, when all the decisions and agreements of the European Union are at the expense of Greek products, as is the case with Kalamata olives, as is the case with vineyards, as is most of the case with other products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u112	You've put a lot of issues in it. We will see some of these, as I have said in committee. The agreement with South Africa is not only a trade agreement for agricultural products, but it is a broader agreement, development, investment, which concerns six countries of South Africa. We are talking about an agreement, which has been initialled, has been closed since September 2014, when our country was also holding the Presidency's debts with the European Commission. In other words, I would like to say that it was the negligence of the then government, which passed the agreement before it, and whether it was not taken over or with a node that said 'yes, go ahead'. From there on, we are in a process to try at least in the time of transition to the agreement to revise what is provided for in the agreement. As for the rest, to which you have referred very much, we have reacted with the Czech Republic. We have reacted and, indeed, it is a question that we will legally see, we will move on for the simple reason that Greek yoghurt does not exist as a product anywhere. The reference to ‘Greek’ therefore shows purely geographical origin. So in this case the Czech Republic should not use it because it is a misunderstanding. The consumer, seeing as 'Greek yoghurt', considers that he is from Greece, since that is what he means, because there is no other procedure. Legally we will resort and there is a precedent a few years ago - I do not remember exactly the time - in England, where a unit attempted to make this move and a corresponding Greek company here appealed to the courts and achieved a positive result. We will monitor it and there is no chance that we will not react. We will react by appealing to the relevant courts. For the rest, for the other agreements, I have said to you that what we always insist and shout is the quality of our products. It is the only tool we have in order to be able to compete and, above all, it is the tool that adds value, so that our products can actually come out on international markets. We'll say more to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before entering the debate on the next question, I would like to inform you that they are not being discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister for Foreign Affairs, the following topical questions. The second under number 910/27-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the debts of the OSCE. Also, the second question by No. 2380/15-1-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the restoration of the injustice of the last law on the single wage for officials in the regions. The first question will be discussed under No 2433/19-1-2016 by MP Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the institution of the breeder. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. My question is related to the question that was previously discussed by the Golden Dawn colleagues concerning the huge issue of livestock production, of our country's animal production. In the period 2013-2014, when refining animal production, bluetongue, in my relevant timely question, then the Minister for Rural Development Mr. Koukoulopoulos mentioned as one of the measures to combat the disease, the status of breeder. This veterinarian would fill out the huge gaps facing the country's animal production directorates throughout the territory, and would give one, I would say, hand to the already winter service of animal production. So the question is, on the one hand, about describing the current situation and, on the other, about what you intend, Mr Minister, to do on a chronological basis, I would say, on the other hand, on a matter such as the incomplete management of the addresses of animal production and agricultural production in general, if there is some good prospect towards resolving the problem and, on the other hand, whether there is a better linkage between the service and those of veterinary surgeons, such as the private ones, which would be of benefit on the basis of the choice of the previous political leadership and on which you agree, if there would also be a better link-up - to that direction. There are several objections from the veterinarians of the service - obviously you know them - such as the Pan-Hellenic Association of Public Officials, who do not agree with the status of breeder - they denounce it, I would say - and consider it incomplete. However, I think it was a good solution, if, of course, the state is properly dealt with and proper management of this status. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u116	Mr Colleague, our concern for livestock is a given one. I think the whole composition of this House cares about livestock farming. The website of the Ministry of Rural Development has been posted and the register of breeders is in force. Four hundred fifty-seven private veterinarians have been registered so far and it is a register that is constantly updated by the registration of new veterinarians. By Ministerial Decision, adopted in detail, the application of the institutional framework of the veterinarian to livestock holdings is described. However, for their full implementation in practice a joint Ministerial Decision is pending by the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance on compensation and aid for 2016, which will commit a specific financial amount to cover them. It has now been signed by us and is in the Ministry of Finance to complete this process. Now, with regard to what you have said, with the inclusion of the breeder in the same scheme as the other professional categories, in order to qualify as a professional vehicle, that is, of course, not our competence, but, of course, because it is our responsibility to implement more effectively the programmes for the control and eradication of diseases and for a stricter, I would say, diligence in protecting the health of livestock and public health - we will take the necessary steps to facilitate further work. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] You referred, in fact, to the communication, which exists from the trade union body of veterinary surgeons in the public sector. He has reacted with the establishment of the breeder. We believe that the way in which the situation and needs are, in particular, to serve livestock farming, we are forced by whatever means we can use and it can help us to use it in this direction. However, we would once again stress that the Ministry of Rural Development is very insistent on meeting the needs of farmers by putting the veterinarians first, first and foremost, at the forefront, because it is very necessary for them to be present in order to function not only by protecting the health of the consumer, but also by protecting the health and custody of the animals, I would say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a request. We keep the time, because then it follows legislative work. Mr Davakis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I am rapporteur and I know that. Minister, I agree. What I wanted to do is to see you advocate to the institution of the breeder. I understood indirectly that you were in favour of this institution. Now the question of whether any objections to the service and the Pan-Hellenic Association of Public Officials will be suspended is a matter for you to convince with some practice that they too are useful, so that they can help the whole work of the service veterinarians. As far as cars are concerned - because they go in the same way to the various livestock establishments, to the flocks - you must see it, as I say in my question, since - to be a little aware - in the Laconia Prefecture, there are about two and a half thousand farms, sheep and goat flocks, about four hundred and eighty thousand sheep and goats. We have a thousand and fifty-nine cattle farms, involving eight thousand three hundred bovine animals, and instead we have six veterinarians, including the manager, who do not leave the service, because they also do bureaucratic and service work and we also have six breeders. I think there can be a good approach to the whole issue, because, beyond the blue, which has passed, we now have brucellosis, honey fever, and, in any case, I would say that caradocoun and various other diseases, which at all times, particularly in the summer months, can invade this seated service and have the same ones that we had two years ago. Strengthen the institution and, above all, make it the most friendly to the veterinarians of the service, because here the service document says that we are in favour of permanent staff or seasonal, well-administered services, that is to say, well-known services. In any case, the vacancies with permanent veterinary staff should be covered and weakened. However, in these difficult times of the economy, as you quite rightly said, we need to find appropriate applications, the appropriate conditions, such as the breeder, so that there is no problem, which we are dealing with at all times. I have to help these people, too, and they need to be strengthened by you. They go by their own means. They must be surrounded - I would say - by an armour, so that they do not have any economic bleeding from the top. And they must all understand that, above all, the reason why we are undergoing them - the services, the political leaderships and all of us - is the service of the Greek people and, in this case, the service of the Greek farmers, who unfortunately, where necessary, are in a very difficult position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think I echo your point of view on this, because you are also aware of all these objective conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr Davaki. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, I've met with the public veterinary trade union and I understand their concern. They are interested in the future of their industry, their employment. Of course, we too, as I have said before, want to have veterinary officials in order to deal with all the problems. However, as the situation is today, many problems cannot be tackled. They do not have the luxury of time - at this point in time - public veterinarians to deal with the many problems. So since breeders cover us for a specific project, through the implementation of a specific programme, we will also use that possibility. I wish that the fiscal situation of the country should allow us to recruit veterinarians, because, I repeat, especially for the Ministry of Rural Development, this sector must definitely be strengthened, because livestock farming is the most important tool in the rural area, which can take us out of many problems that we are experiencing as a country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u121	Do you have anything to say about the vehicles?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u122	I said before that it is not our responsibility. We will be in contact with the other ministries that have the responsibility to do so, to emphasise that we need to help them, because we absolutely need this function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. The fifth question under number 920/30-5-2016 will be discussed in the context of a topical question by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems of crops from rainfall in Thessaly. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the recent heavy rainfall in the area of Thessaly, namely on 21 and 22 May, two weeks ago, has resulted in huge and extensive damage to the Larissa Prefecture - mainly in Karditsa, Trikala - and also in the Magnesia Prefecture. In many cases, large growing areas have been flooded, resulting in the partial or total destruction of crops. At the same time, due to the intense phenomenon and the insufficient infrastructure projects, huge problems, beyond the cultivations, were also created in settlements, in villages, but mainly in the city of Farsalon, with dozens of houses flooding. After this unfavourable development, as you can see, farmers are facing new deadlocks, of course, as far as their income is concerned, where this problem comes, too, to be added to the already tragic economic situation they are experiencing, because of the anti-agricultural policy that they have, both from the present and the previous governments. The questions are therefore whether and when - we say immediately - the assessment of losses over the whole crop and the compensation of producers directly and fairly for 100% of the damage. At the same time, of course, exceptional aid must be granted to the affected, in order to cope with the damage they have suffered. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u126	This year's spring and summer course had many damages in the area of Thessaly. We had too many rain floods from March to May. You refer, of course, to the last of May 21st and 22nd in Carditsa, Trikala, Farsala, Farkadona, in these areas. In fact, there were announcements and statements of injury made by the producers. Also, from the same cause in the area of the Municipality of Farsalon we had damages in fixed capital, mainly warehouses and stored products, and these records are made at this time and will be done as quickly as possible. The work of personalization - it is what we call the "expertification of assessments" - will soon be done, but later on. The findings will then be communicated and the compensation will be paid to the beneficiaries of insurance informative producers. It should be noted that the compulsory insurance for agricultural production provided by ELGA covers direct damage to plant production and livestock caused by these injurious causes - natural hazards, hail, flooding, ice-cream - as well as diseases in livestock, which are certainly greater than a minimum rate of damage. Farmers know the relevant regulation. These losses in particular concerning fixed capital and stored products, provided that the conditions required by the State aid regulation are met, and at the same time there is the Community control procedure, state aid is granted in the agricultural sector, which is part of a State aid programme - it is what farmers, the PEAs - which will, of course, be submitted for approval to the European Commission. If the European Commission approves and if the financial situation permits, then these losses are paid, the MAGPs shall be paid. Of course, I will tell you in my dentext, we will start to check all the possibilities that we have, except for the two that I mentioned before, to cover these damages.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u127	Does the 2015 balancing know when it will be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Davaki, I'm the merciful congressman. You'd come back with another question, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u129	Ask that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. The problem is huge, Minister. You know that, I think, because you have also had contacts with a number of rural associations in the direction, not only of highlighting and examining this issue, but also of tabling the requests from the farmers. In the Cardiff over a hundred thousand acres have been flooded. In Trikala, mostly in the area of the Municipality of Farcadona, about thirty, perhaps more. Similarly, as has been said in my protology and in Larissa, but also in Magnesia, it is also about facilities in some areas, namely fixed capital by extension. However, what also emerges with the problem of the floods in Thessaly, which is not the first time, may be the first time on such a large scale - it is a phenomenon, a matter which is rather agitating farmers years now - which is revealed and emerged is enormous deficiencies both in the maintenance, cleansing, improvement of the networks of the rivers, the divestments, but also the need for new European projects to help or, if you like, they will prevent the extensive destruction of crops. Here the responsibilities are enormous, both from the previous governments and from the regions, from the region of Thessaly in this regard, from the local administrations and municipalities of the relevant bodies. Because, as I have said many times in the past, the areas of Carditsa and Trikala have suffered enormous flood damage. For years now, the unity and the federation of rural clubs in all the regions of Thessaly have raised these issues with regard to the necessary projects, anti-military, escalating, etc., with concrete proposals. But the rural population is still helpless, and of course they are brought to ruin once again. Here all these state bodies - to say so - who have a responsibility, are hiding behind the extraordinary weather situation. We say that this is a criminal indifference both in the state and in local government, first and second, in the face of this problem, but also in the law and chronic demand from farmers for the need to carry out projects of this kind. So the last disasters come to be added to the great, huge deadlocks at the same time as the farmers and the policy pursued in the agricultural sector, which is also implemented by the present government, and which in fact accelerates the dismantling of farmers. We say, in particular, that the government is directly required to take steps to provide substantial relief for agricultural crops from natural disasters with infrastructure, as well as for improvements. and a change - because you mentioned the ELGA regulation - of the ELGA regulation, which does not guarantee 100% of compensation for all causes of damage, both in plant and in animal production, since what farmers pay in ELGA is essentially not rewarding and, at the same time, it works as one more piece of work on their backs. Also, there is the request, as the farmers enter, that ELGA change his status and be a state institution. We and the previous period have highlighted the issues, we will highlight them and, of course, we support the fight against farmers in the direction of safeguarding the fundamental right, namely survival, staying in their place and cultivating. Because you have referred to the PSEA or, if necessary, to other programmes, Minister, I am very sorry, but these are crumbs. I mean the PSAs. You said yourself: 'This is what she has lived for me May to eat a clover'. I mean, they'll never get compensation. Farmers' claims are immediately estimates, both direct and compensation, fair to 100% of the losses. Of course, a question arises: what about the product associated with which farmers are entitled? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Megalopolis Arcadias and the 135th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u133	Colleague, we have a certain damage caused by a particular cause. So we will see from the estimates that will be made and the personalities whether this is covered by the ELGA and the associated compensation will be paid. Of course, you said that it could cover other insurance risks. There's a regulation. To do this, financial study is needed, a technical study, which will also redefine the premium, because the ELGA operates in the logic of recompense. So for those damages that are not covered by the ELGA, we have two possibilities. One is what we call PSEA, namely through state financial aid, and mainly concerns fixed capital or livestock lost. There is, of course, the necessary condition for damage to be at least 30% of the average of the regional section, the average of the region. There, apparently, these damages do not reach this point and it is difficult to substantiate them against the European Commission to give its approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u134	What you say is "live me May to eat a clover".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u135	So we'll see, we'll look into it. I am approaching this subject on the basis of the reality that we have before us. The second possibility is to cover the part of the loss of income due to losses by this process of de minimis. And in this case - you should know - we need a procedure for approval by the European Commission, because - everyone understands it, we have talked about it so many times and within the days again - the recoverys from the Hatzigakis packages were given without documentation and without approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u136	How long, Minister, can we get the de minimis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u137	When we say that we will appreciate the loss of income, it means that the growing season will end and it will be harvested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u138	There's no other way?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u139	There's no other way, what can we do? Loss of income must have you from the time you harvest the product and estimate if its value is lower and what your loss is, from the average of the previous years. These are the procedures and there is nothing else. What I want to say to you is that there is indeed a serious issue about irrigation networks. That is where we need to see how, both through the Rural Development Programme and in consultation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, we need to make improvements so that we do not have the same phenomena as the slightest rain and floods again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. The sixth question will then be discussed under number 894/23-5-2016, a topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of students in public and private IEK. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns, as you have said, Mr President, the problems faced by students from the IEK in our country. On the basis of the problems that have arisen, and for this reason some two and a half months ago, they had been mobilised, claiming a solution to these problems, the students of the IEK in Larissa. One part of the question relates to the question of practice, which we do not have to raise for the first time. I would remind you that in November, with a timely question, we had raised the question of the abolition of the joint ministerial decision taken on the government before the elections, the service government, where, in fact, the way was opened for the unpaid work of students exercising their six-month practical duties. In fact, then, in the corresponding reply, the relevant Deputy Minister had promised that in a reasonable time the Ministry of Education would be abolished, of course, by a joint ministerial decision, the September decision. At the same time, on the issue of the topical question, we raise the issues of the operation arising from the sub-funding of IEKs, as well as issues of the students themselves, which are mostly children of people's families, with huge financial problems, which do not have the opportunity to move from the province to the centres or cities where IEKs operate. We are also putting a number of other issues in the context of the educational process, such as consumables, the supply of notes, etc., which are forced and paid, and we believe it should be free of charge. So the problems that we are putting fast, Mr President, to the Minister are how to ensure the immediate financing of public IEK by the state budget, the abolition of the specific circular of the Ministry of Education I mentioned, the distribution free of charge by the Ministry of Education of all consumables, notes, etc., to students and the creation of the corresponding necessary and necessary infrastructure for the next year. We also raise the issues of teachers in terms of not only the number and completeness of posts to be reserved for teachers in IEKs, but also the fact that they have been unpaid for a long time. Of course, we say that the state, the government, should take the initiative so that students who cannot move to have the possibility of housing, food and, of course, free access to public transport. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, the insurance status of the students of the IEK is not sufficient indeed. What is currently happening is that students in the IKA, whether they are public or private, practice as a prerequisite for obtaining their diploma and are subject to the IKA-ETAM sector exclusively for accidents at work. It is our intention to go directly into legislation which will equate the insurance and legislative regime of training with apprenticeships, as we have voted for this scheme of apprenticeships with n. The Commission's proposal is based on Article 100a of the EEC Treaty. In other words, they will be subject to insurance in the IKA and during the period during which they are employed in the insurance sector in kind and in the cash sickness insurance industry, and their insurance will be considered as a pension and the remuneration for the period of employment will be equal to 75% of the minimum wage of the unskilled worker. The question you raise about free accommodation does not seem to me to be, at least to a large extent. For there is a sufficient geographical spread of public IEKs in all parts of the country near the student's homes. With regard to the movement of trainees, access to public transport is guaranteed with a reduced ticket to Attica and we can also try to provide for other regions of the country. For the financing of public expenditure, I inform you that appropriations for 2016 have been entered for EUR 6.1 million. The first funding amounting to 70% of the total funding, amounting to 4.3 million euros, has been completed and the remaining instalment to INEDIBIM, which has been managed and operated by the public IEC, is EUR 1.8 million. As far as OAED is concerned, the information I have from the administration is that they have full laboratory equipment for all specialties and all consumables are provided without delay. They also inform me that the 2015-2016 training year at the OAD IEK was carried out without a problem and without a shortage of educational staff, and for the first time the candidates were submitted and mobilised in an electronic way. This is what we have done and will proceed, because we want the IEK to be more organic in the programme of public education and in particular in the programme of vocational training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The situation that has been created for the IEK students is increasing a problem, namely the problem that today is experiencing thousands of young workers in our country with unemployment, part-time work, unpaid work and all this work jungle that exists today. We are clearly calling, Minister, for the joint ministerial decision to be abolished in September. Firstly, you said that you intend to bring in the status you mentioned earlier, to introduce these children into the apprenticeship scheme. We say that these children are workers, as workers are treated. And before the joint ministerial decision of September there was the issue. We are not only demonising the joint ministerial decision, but it is also a policy which is carried out in particular. These children should first be employed or employed in the context of the practical training in the field in which they are studying. There do not tell me - because we have many examples, and I think you too, as Minister of State, but also knowing of a situation - that everything else is working or working in the areas for which they are studying, that is to say, companies which are invited to cover their practical experience. The train example in this is the tourism sector, where it is employed in every type of work, ancillary and helpful, beyond basic and, of course, unpaid work, uninsured and with only one cover for the accident that can happen in the context of their work. We say, in particular, that these children for the six-month period must be covered in insurance in terms of both pensions and health issues and, of course, receive wages, which corresponds or is equal - to say so - with sectoral contracts, with those applicable to other workers. So what are you doing? And with what you bring - we will see it when you bring it, when you bring it, we will look at it, we will put it in place - you are actually offering cheap labour - and even institutionalised - to entrepreneurs, without any hours, etc. You know very well that these children, while they have to be employed five hours, for example, in the context of practical work, on those days that are planned, work ten and twelve hours, not to say more. Such examples too, there are plenty of them. And don't tell me that there are no problems, because the OAED told you what he said. Understood. Transfer the image that the service gave you. Excuse me very much, however, in Larissa, for example, in other parts of the country, in Kosani, in Thessaloniki, students and teachers went out to the streets. Do not just take into account large urban centres, because there are problems in these areas too. For example, a student to go from Elassona to Larissa wants a daily amount to go. From Farshalla to Larissa, too. Just the metaphor. We say: how much time for the free movement of students to and from where they study, the city where the educational establishment they study is located. Also, for those children who cannot be moved, given the opportunity, there will be infrastructure, where they will live free of charge, of an outbreak type, with a feeding at the same time and what will have to be foreseen. We raise this issue, Minister. That's what we're asking. And, of course, I have not heard you say so, unless you think that with this new proposal, the legislative intervention that will be taken, the previous joint ministerial decision of September will be revoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, Mr Colleague, we are not in dispute. We recognize the problems of IEKs. We have a lot more problems than you mentioned. The main problem is a problem of naturality, which is precisely those institutions of post-training. That is why our aim is to upgrade today's multi-dimensional technical and vocational education, to set up a public, free, adequate and effective system of post-training and training. We have already moved on to improvements, which relate, both to the change of skills and to the operation of the fourth year of post-training in the ESDP. The current IEK, which will adequately meet the needs of the graduates of the single school, who do not wish to continue in the universities, will be integrated into this network. Public IEK will provide all the technological skills required by the Greek society and economy and will award diplomas with recognized professional rights. I would like to remind you that our government at difficult times has given samples of writing, of interest to the IEKs. The return of educators made redundant by the previous Samara Government - Venizelos strengthened vocational education and training. The fact that the number of students and students has risen sharply in particular in the IEKs shows that there is an interesting social, but also an interest in the state, the government of SYRIZA, in order to respond to the child's request for training in conditions of unemployment, as you have rightly identified. However, IEKs do not solve the problem of unemployment, but only secondaryly direct children in directions concerning the country's reconstruction and development. It goes without saying that the new arrangement eliminates the previous one. I referred to the question of apprenticeship. We will have the corresponding advantages for students in the IEK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u148	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u149	Soon. We'll be here this summer. We're not leaving. However, you should be aware that the government gives special priority to dealing with the problems of students and students in the IEKs, because there is a social element. There they are studying children from people's families who want to shape certain conditions for joining the economy and society, children - especially girls, I stress this - which, under other circumstances, under the Samara government, had been thrown into the margins and nets of social and educational leakage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u150	And they're not only young, but also older who have families, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u151	Of course, he's older than that, but he's probably young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, because the time has passed for the time being, the request from the Bureau is that the time should be strictly respected because there is legislative work, which may be very much extended. I therefore ask that we keep up with the time. We move to the eighth under number 861/13-5-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much. Minister, last February you recommended - and this is to your credit and it is very positive - a law of salvation of Athens. Before you were Mr. Tasoulas, who had reached the end, but the government and Mr. Xydakis fell on your own Government that was reconstructed. Finally, the clergy came to you to raise something very heavy on your back. We supported you, because you did right. I would stress and remind you that your government partner has voted against your legislative initiative. But, Mr Baltas, because we voted for you - and we are sure that we were right - we also have a very great responsibility for the implementation of the law that we voted on in February. We voted with you because your initiative was courageous. We voted with you to save the Megaron and to be able to provide culture to the young children and the citizens of Greece - as it does - to raise our psychological level in this time of crisis, which we so need, to be able to pay the workers and not to become the center of Athens from a moment of glory, a deaf. While you praised the President then and advising Mr Mano - and did so here, if I remember correctly - then before the draft law that we voted on began, you changed it. In his place you put Mr. Theaharakis, a person who had some issues in the government's judgement regarding his administrative adequacy. But you have, in our view, made this change, and we must support it and wish it would work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If things - and I close immediately, Mr President - do not go well with the implementation of the law, then a new black hole will be created shortly after the Greek Parliament cannot face it and we will have a break-up. There are already alarming indications that I will talk to you about in my dentistry. Mr. Minister, take a little trouble in Mr. Theaharakis' clothes. The non-citizen can command, so no money, so don't pay, he has criminal responsibilities. It's not right to see him in prison at some point. The same is being threatened by Mr Manos, Mr President, who was avoiding acts of the last moment of the Greek Parliament that enabled him not to get involved with the law. We have a responsibility as voters. That is why, Minister, you must understand on our behalf the particular attention we will be showing in the implementation of the law. I really expect what you're about to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u154	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I have had a difficulty at the outset to understand the contents of the question, whether the question relates to something specific or prefers a more general debate on the future of the House. As you know, the Mansion has an older story than it is. It is an institution very ambitious at its beginning, which absorbed the interest of the state - if you allow many governments, almost exclusively - in terms of culture, accumulated debts, reached the limits of economic catastrophe. The House voted for the debts that had been borne by the House, the state takes them through the budget. And we found the situation about at this point with a law of Mr. Tasoula, who had passed it through the House. And, as you said, we made a law, which was passed by the House and which improved - in our opinion, at least - the previous situation, the previous legislature, etc. You have contributed to the vote in this law. Thank you for that. Your vote, of course, shows that you are interested in the Mansion and culture in general. And that's where nobody's dead. From there on, we appointed a board of directors, as the law told us. This board of directors meets regularly and is trying to deal with all the problems that the House has at the moment - and there are many of them - and that is what is going on without any kind of deficit being presented, in terms of its operation, its timetables, its planning, etc. Let me clarify that the position of a Minister of Culture of any government is not to interfere with the function itself, the artistic programmes, the administrative function of a supervised organisation, but to intervene to help when such problems occur. So far no such problems have arisen. Mr Theoharakis - since you referred to him, I do not know what the phrase 'has had some problems' - is an excellent university with extensive culture. It has helped the government - and the country, I would say - not only on the part of SYRIZA government, but also in advance with his work and his contribution. It is absolutely sufficient, if not too sufficient to launch the Palace in the new direction. As far as I am concerned, why do we normally discuss, without any kind of effort on the part of the Minister, the operation of the Megaron, as I said. He plans his artistic program, proceeds with administrative acts, which legally finalize the new operation of the Megaron. From there on, the whole conception of this is a concept that I imagine not only the government but at least all democratic parties that culture in itself is not a matter of political confrontation in this House or between the parties. The question of politics is to ensure the uninterrupted artistic creation at all levels, the possibility of expressing all forms of art and culture, the possibility of dialogue being carried out in an uninterrupted manner - which there is, of course, the subject of disagreements and opinions on the such or dilemmas of artistic current - for relations between contemporary culture and ancient heritage, in order to make a dialogue, which also helps contemporary artistic creation and so on. I believe that there should be no political disagreement of any kind there. And when on a matter involving a supervised organisation, it comes to the House, the emphasis should be on the real problems that the state can with a debate in this House help. Such problems have not arisen, I assure you. And you are welcome to discuss it at other levels and under other conditions that the Congregation is progressing normally. The events that took place during the Theaharakis mandate, if the expression is allowed, attract people, new worlds. I had gone to an event that was impressive how young people were there and hadn't fit in the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u156	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u157	All the indications are that, unlike pessimistic images, the Megaron will progress very normally and creatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u158	Before I give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and five educational attendants from the Private Municipal School of Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I wished Mr Theaharakis a success in my protology. However, I would like you to agree with me in your dentext now that you have experience a year and a half that the Greek state is a difficult administrative state and that its central state, but also its various agencies, are now in the public sector and the Megaron - they are not commanded by eyes or by distance, but they require personal everyday presence, boldness and determination. I put this to you so that I do not go further into details, which I do not think relate to both my character and the tone I wish to give to our debate. Now we're going to something specific. The authentication of the transfer of the palace to the public sector, according to the law you recommended and voted, has been delayed too much. I think it must have happened three months ago. The tax picture of the House has not been cleared, which for its commander and for the institution itself is extremely important, but very important. His burdens, if they do not erase his image or if they are delayed extinguishing, will be very burdensome to the day-to-day management of the Congregation. On the big issue of the budget, Minister, you know very well that it could not be done until the normality was not there. And the House came in, and with amendments it gave them some money. The budget in this quarter and in the light of the new artistic year, which will begin shortly, is not a simple thing, because you require its revenue and revenue from the activities that we need to know who they are. And it's not simple to invite a large foreign orchestra or a great artist. You need time to do this. All that's gone back. And by the way, this summer the Garden will work? Last year he had forty-five thousand people who went. What are they planning to do? What have they done so far? There is a need for a three-year programme agreement in this context, which will be concluded between the public and the House, and where the budget and its implementation will be the first year. Is that what this is about? For workers, issues relating to their own payment, overtime. Here I would recommend to you - if you can take a hint from a Member - one of your advisers to see the board of directors. And tell him what it is that Mr Theaharakis is talking about and what the political parties are about. Because dialogue is official, Minister. It can't be with rumors. The political parties have cultural sections, which also discuss trade unions in individual areas. Have all these consensuals been made? The Memorandum for the 14 million - do you know the amount - has been signed? It hasn't been signed. And there is the grievance - I speak as kindly as I can - that Mr Theaharakis also fell in the wave of the imperfections of the Greek state, "from Anna to Kaiafa". This has not been done during SYRIZA days. There's always a problem as a problem. But a good minister knows it and he looks at facilitating when he sees that a spiritual child, such as a law, can be cancelled from daily administrative imperfections. You also said here that there you will house the Athens Festival or the Theatre Museum. I have here my notes from your speech. Correct me if you want. You said that you would also give room for other actions. If this doesn't stand on his feet, all the rest will be good suggestions, thoughts, ideas, wishes, but it won't be real. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one wish: I hope the Minister is right. I hope that my concerns will not be fully founded on the next question, which I will make in a month is able to tell me much more specific things or not to have to do so, because the information I have from the workers will be that everything is going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Loverdo, I'm glad to hear about the list you've said. I also have a similar list of loose ends that the Mansion needs to move. I have been informed by Mr Theaharakis of these loose ends as far as our responsibility is concerned. So don't worry, things are going well. As we generalized the debate and the one and a half minutes I have, I should like to say that, on the one hand, a supervised body of the Ministry of Culture is many and on the other hand there are many buildings and other infrastructures which culture has in the area of Athens at least. Our aim is for there to be synergies between all these bodies if possible co-institution, not to say co-existence, of the possibilities of all the bodies with procedures that will reinforce each other, of expanding activities, for example, at the Athens Festival to become institutions that can withstand the winter in the respective facilities, the emergence of the new creation, the assistance of the supervised bodies in their direction to host new creators and from there on, the House itself to begin to gain an image, which, with always music, is not only music. Already there are proposals and procedures, so that there are considerable other efforts of institutions or possibilities, so that the House can truly become a more comprehensive cultural area, with an emphasis on music at all times. All this is going on. Obviously, the wording of the artistic programme goes away is still pending how we agree on the amount of the subsidy that we will give to the House on the part of the state, which is not an individual issue, because we need to have a debate of this kind with all the supervised bodies with the poor financial resources we have at the moment. Although we hope that the economy will develop from now on at a faster rate, some of the overdue debts of all supervised bodies belonging to the general government will be paid, obviously. So the next day will be a little better. We are also restructured by the Archaeological Resources Fund and towards its economic side, so that there is additional assistance there too, an additional resource for culture. We are completely open to the good and creative debate on all these issues, which are obviously about a political debate like this or outside the House, in the abstract parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the bottom Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty representatives of the Greek Blind Associations. The House welcomes them. We move to the fourth with number 908/26-5-2016 topical question of the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the control and justice of false diplomas in the public sector. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u163	Thank you. Minister, with my question, I wanted us to discuss and have the opportunity here in Parliament to clarify a big issue, and indeed a matter that has, over time, upset public administration. You know that the legal consequences of the absence of the correct supporting documents, the existence of false documents of all kinds and degrees and others imply arbitrary withdrawal of appointment and consistent case-law of the Council of State, which stipulates that, in the absence of qualifications, appointment is withdrawn. However, because over time the state had phenomena of distortions and pathogens, in 2014 it has become an important step. I am pleased to say, Mr President, that this law, No4305/14, and in particular Article 28, to which I wish to refer, applies and applies normally. You are also aware of this, Mr Minister, of personal work on communications, because the subject was raised with the Ministry of Education, and my question to you is about the application of this article to both the diplomas and the other qualifications of civil servants. And I would like to explain, Mr President. Just a second. What did Article 28 actually say? He said that the existing case-law and law are not enough, because there is one - if you like - relaxed in its implementation. It shall, upon recruitment and on the resignation of the full control of the supporting documents. This leads us to a public, which makes the same attempts to have full transparency and full credibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because at some point we have to take the specialities which are more of an interest in top-level services, such as the civil protection and security services, so, Minister, I would like you to reply to me what is the government's direction so far, if you continue in this direction that the law gives you, which you have accepted as a Qualified Opposition and what the results so far are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u164	The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Vernardakis. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is very simple. Obviously the observance of Article 28 of Law No.4305 applies and must be applied free of charge, clean and clear. I would like to say, however, that it is not just the law of 2014. To render Caesar's and the previous ones, before 2014 - there was also the experience of Mr Manitakis on the position, on the use of this case - we have a series of circulars, which gave specific instructions to the services of all the public, to all the Departments of Human Resources and Administrative, so that a authenticity check can be carried out on the merits of the diplomas, certificates and all the supporting documents, with which someone is appointed to the public. I would like to say here that this is a normal, normal administrative procedure, and that is how it should be. And if we ever want to talk about good public administration, the ministers or political parties should obviously have nothing to do with this normal process, the administrative process, which must be implemented. The administrative procedure, which was implemented, therefore, gave the following results: all the diplomas of the Greek State were checked, the supporting documents, and they were - and I tell you only the number that arrived until the revocation, namely how many were checked, the certificates were found with any problems of plausibility, and therefore the administrative revocation procedure was initiated - for 2013 for six, in 2014, two hundred forty-three, in 2015, one hundred and fifty-six, and by the end of April 2016, forty-eight. In other words, we have a total of four hundred and ninety-three people in these four years. Because the problem here is also communication, I should draw attention to all political parties. Because this is where I would say, from the outset, an attack on the public sector, on the good public sector, on what we want to rationalise and develop. With regard to the plasticity of diplomas or many of the fake degrees, apart from the fact that there is the legislation, which must be applied and applied, there are all administrative procedures - the AACC makes auditing of documents, when one is appointed, the staff addresses before one is appointed to carry out a credit check on the diplomas - and ultimately this whole story since 2014 and then invested more heavily than it was, I would say. The four hundred ninety-three nominations correspond to 0,08 civil servants in Greece. So you realise that all this noise, which breaks out on newspapers and channels, is the least, I would say, unjustified, when it actually ignores the usual administrative procedure through which all this control is carried out. That's what I wanted to say, and if I have to go back to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would ask you very much to submit the information you have read to us. We agree on 2013. The data at my disposal for 2014 speak of four hundred ninety-six cases. However, if you have the most recent and valid data for 2015 and 2016, I would ask that we have them too, that the Greek Parliament also had them. On the substance, I am very pleased to hear your position and answer, because it is very important to get out of any misunderstanding that the current government and any other democratically elected government of the Greek state would ever make the mistake of trying to give a second chance to those in any way who produced false certificates. That's the one. Perhaps if you want to see the positive side of this noise, which has been created, it helps us to make it clear that there must be a intergroup - at the democratic constitutional arc at least - consensus on the fight against this phenomenon. Mr President, you are right about what you have said to me before, both to Mr Manitakis and to other pre-existing people. Because I represent the Step forward here, apart from myself and an exception, which created the AACC - No.2190 is the law of PASOK, which then voted against abomination by the right-wing opposition - I would like to say to you that for us it is very important that this effort had begun and indeed the figures that you said were before the law was passed. My question, therefore, beyond the obvious clearing - why was the effort and before the law was passed, which is going to put another order on this issue at the time of recruitment and at the time of departure - is to tell us whether, despite the burden of the audit services that are subject to you, proper work is being done with regard to controls. And I obviously agree - and I hope that this attitude will be more broad - that it is not a matter of the Minister in question, but it is a matter of service. However, as my previous colleague, the Minister, said, let me tell you, although I am sure you know, that it has the supervision to do this and that there are no oligopolysms. I would like, therefore, in your dentext if we can, Minister, have the information on the checks carried out and on how this flow of controls goes beyond the limits of the law we have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. One or two clarifications I would like to make. The evidence is obviously from the services, and I obviously don't have my own opinion. I trust the document which I have requested from the services so that I can be informed in order to answer the question. The second thing I want to say is that IASP is indeed a conquest - that we need to recognise - and we need to shield it even further, with all the responsibilities and I think that we are also trying to do that with the new law on public administration. The third thing I want to say is that the Minister must obviously monitor and control this whole process. Of course, the intentions of the Ministry are to create a digital establishment now, that is to say, the obligation of digital establishments throughout the entire length and width of the public administration, and the existence of a digital service file with each official appointed to the public, so that all the data - obviously not open - are not personal data - can be made available to the service and at the disposal of the public administration and be available to them. I'm tabling the document that I mentioned before. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] I would like to come back for the communication. I think it is at the edge of the question. I see here, for example, in the reasonable question, that it is a wording. You say 'the identification of thousands of false diplomas and the imposition of legal sanctions'. We agree 100% on legal sanctions. For the word 'thousands', let us not commit ourselves, and you who have been responsible for so many years of the administration of the country and the previous governments. I think we're handling ourselves. The public has had too many problems, such as bureaucracy and gabourism and more. We can say politically what it wants, but not say we have thousands of fake degrees. We must defend the integrity of people, the moral integrity of the overwhelming majority of officials, and we must avoid such excessive use of words, not for any other reason, but because we are actually becoming a political system and on the bad side of the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u170	Minister, I should have the opportunity to reply, but the Rules of Procedure do not allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u171	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for that, unfortunately. But, Minister, online today, an interesting study was announced by John Hopkins University, that the third cause of death in America is medical mistakes. The first is cardiovascular diseases, then cancers and medical errors. So you realize the importance of these things that Mrs Christophilopoulou has raised with her question. The ninth under number 869/16-5-2016 a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and will be redefined. The third, with number 2808/193/1-2-2016, question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion, is not discussed as a result of the Minister's obstruction and will be redefined. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before continuing with the supplementary agenda for the legislative work we will have a short break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the drafts of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the Status of their Powers’. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Arab Republic of Egypt’. 'Programme Arrangement' No. A -1424 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Ireland, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the United Kingdom of Great Defence and the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of Great Defence The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. However, because of the fact that four ministerial amendments have been tabled, the figures have not been used. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles. 456/23, 458/24, 463/25, 464/26, I propose - as usual - that Mr Christos Papapas be put at the beginning of the three conventions by the People's Association - Golden Dawn and Mrs Liana Kanellellis, from the Communist Party of Greece, who either declared "residents" or voted against the Standing Committee, as well as the Minister responsible, for five minutes. I then propose that the amendments, with the rapporteurs and special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, the relevant ministers and those who register, be discussed together to speak for five minutes. After the debate on the amendments with the positions of the competent ministers is concluded, the three conventions will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u175	You will take the floor in the order you requested. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, for many years this House has been unacceptable. While we were all aware that there is a framework of agreement between countries, a text of legislation, which has no impact on the process, which we are discussing or which does not raise issues, four amendments were tabled late last night. These amendments must firstly be explained by the Ministers. They are large, they come in the form of an emergency, essentially. Secondly, they must be signed by the ministers. For example, Mr Kammenos, as Minister for National Defence, must sign the specific amendment concerning the 'bone' of the ripening for the Armed Forces. That's how they have to show up. Thirdly, the amendments to this House should be made known to the House. And, fourthly, importantly, something that we have followed in other procedures must open up a list of speakers specifically for the amendments. That's our place. Because there are several Members who want to talk about the abolition of the ESS, about the 'fresh' of maturities, about the deterioration of the cutter, about a number of issues introduced by the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u177	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u178	I won't get enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u179	Yeah, but they're all gonna talk. Five minutes is the normal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u180	Listen, Mr. President. There is a misuse of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with regard to special procedural procedures. We've been through this so many times and the government thinks we're gonna get tired of talking about it. I'll see you every time, because people listen, people hear. On behalf of the groups, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, the Conference decided what you said and followed them for a long time, as you know. There has been a very important omission, which you need to cover today. After we have operated by the guilty and all of us have made this concession, all parties must be fully in agreement with the Rules of Procedure in everything else. Yesterday we reached the point of repeating it three times and not receiving a reply from the President of the Parliament, who is now here and listened. If we go to this procedure, where draft laws come here in the form of amendments without reports from the Department of Scientific Studies of the Parliament, with no opportunity to see the problems properly, we have made a request at least to apply Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, whose failure to implement with an audience of 11 million Greeks the problem with offshore the day before yesterday. In other words, Mr President, in so far as there are amendments - here I am speaking, Mr President, today - so many and great, since, as was said yesterday, legislative improvements to the last minute have the potential, as the Rules require in Article 104, for the National Representation to vote in principle and in accordance with Article today and at a later meeting in the whole of the draft law. Because when this is not done, heresy, Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u181	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u182	'Follow up', you say now kindly. But yesterday we asked the Bureau for a reply before the vote we were not given the floor. We will conclude when the arguments are completed, Mr President, and I beg your pardon. I say, therefore, in conclusion - and not to complain to those who are responsible for what the House has voted for, that at least today, with the experience it has gained, any quorums - present, brother, because we are both people and workers in Parliament's services - or intentional speeches - remember what happened with the Secretary-General of Mr Kurubl, where a provision of the last minute in the form of improvement did not hear it - must have the temptation and the time of this House to see them, so that when it comes to voting on the whole, these should be corrected. I would therefore ask you not to vote on the whole, first and foremost, and to be left for a next sitting, tomorrow or Monday, so that this House can be sure that it knows what it has voted on. If you do not accept it, as you did yesterday, we in the vote on the whole will leave. It is not right to despise a parliamentary group, whether by not giving the floor or by not responding sufficiently. It is not enough to reply'reject' to a question which the Regulation does not allow for any derogations. Read Article 104. I would ask you, Mr President, that the Bureau see this and that the answer given to us be adequate. A strict derogation was made in the past, when the Minister said: 'I need it in two hours', but coups it is not right to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u185	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u186	First of all, I think you were in trouble, because you were not the one who started this story in sanctions for amendments, etc. In any case, I will tell you something else, I will not tell you about the illegal and out-of-region that is once again being done today. I'll tell you this. We have the debate on a ratification, and those who say 'no' or say 'no' speak of a five-minute country. These conventions, Mr President, are very serious with regard to our diplomacy, our military policy or our foreign policy. We cannot in a five-minute period put ourselves in exactly three agreements. I would like us to have your tolerance so that we can put ourselves as the Greek people should know what is going on here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u187	As you know, Mr. Pappa, there is always tolerance. The second point I would like to make is that we are also applying what is commonly applied today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u188	However, something that does not exist in the Rules of Procedure also applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u189	So if a deal is a wishful task, otherwise the House will be called upon to decide by a majority. There must be understanding from all the wings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u190	Since you are making an irregularity, and also amendments, let us therefore speak as we should. I'm talking about sanctions. Our parliamentary representative Mr Panayotaros will be present on the subject of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u191	We are also applying what we are applying firmly today. There's nothing different. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u192	You decided five minutes without asking the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u193	No, you're wrong. The question is now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, have you given me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u195	I'm sorry, Mr. Mada. This is the Bureau's proposal, I did not ask a question if the House agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u196	You decided five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no. They requested the floor on a point of order. Please, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Madda, can the Independent Members not take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u199	I'm a parliamentary representative. I asked for the floor. Of course you can! Alas! I said another.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u200	You're welcome, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u201	We, Mr President, accept your suggestion of the procedure, which is the one that - as you said and repeated - we are usually using in these cases. So through the procedure of the amendments, which have come to these conventions, we can also open a list of speakers and close today. Secondly, I would like to point out - for reasons which we all understand in this Chamber and which the Greek people understand - that you are trying, on the basis of the procedural procedure, to have a disturbance and to have an opportunity for some who left this Chamber yesterday, to come back today in their own way. It's their right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u202	You're giving us the right to come back? Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u203	You're a big heart!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u204	Please don't have an interactive conversation. Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u205	So I say this: we all knew about these procedures in this Chamber, we were watching them closely. It is well known, but the misfortune for some of you is that they closed in a way they probably didn't expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, please speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u208	Please, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u209	On a point of order, Mr President. I'm gonna need less than a minute. I need thirty seconds. There was a lot of talk about the seven and a half thousand pages, which was not seven and a half thousand pages, for this memorial of eighty-six plus the annexes. Today, in three conventions, you come with four amendments, which only suffice to see them and read them. We, thank God, are very diligent with work, we read. So it's not there. It's just a question. You have ever thought that in the body of the memorandum someone, if they want to deal with the reduction of their one-off or with the ESS, should look for a bill that will be published behind an agreement concerning the Single European Sky, the agreement with Egypt and the agreement with Israel. I mean, just the unbearable thing, someone can see the tail. And I'm talking to you about CSCE, about IPTO, I'm talking about a single one, I'm talking about such arrangements. Are these gonna be scattered in Greek legislation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u210	They'll be integrated, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u211	We are accused of a deficit of seriousness. Operationally, what are you going to do? You'll cut a piece of a law and embed it to someone else. Listen to me: The bill today on the basis of the procedure has a lack and a hole, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Contracts will be discussed in principle and adopted in the end as a comprehensive draft law. That's the only way it's gonna happen. That's what he said in the process. If this is not the case, you do not clarify it. Because if this is not the case, they cannot be discussed. They will therefore be discussed at the outset in the bill, and then we will be in the amendments. Let us make it clear, because otherwise we incorporate the title 'contracts this, contracts that, with the kingdom of one another, with the kingdom of the other', the other amendments from below. Before the debate begins, which of the Members of Parliament have been accepted, because the time-limit for such proceedings is clear that they are not put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u212	We said, Mrs. Canelley, they're going to be discussed separately. It won't all be together. We talked about it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u213	How will they be voted on, not how they will be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u214	They will be voted on in the way we usually vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u215	What will they be voted on? As amendments embedded in the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u216	Mrs. Kanelle, they'll be voted on the way we usually vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u217	There's not usually. It happened yesterday, and it's happening today. What's the usual? Forty-eight?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u218	The House moves with its procedures, with the constant...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u219	That's never happened before, how to do it. It happened yesterday, and it's happening today. Explain it! How will it be voted on? It's very important. What will be in the first place? Will the amendments to the law be articles and the three conventions will begin? Because you said that for the vote this would be done. There will be a debate and the vote will be taken at the end of the day. The vote of what? The vote of a bill with the principle of conventions and articles on amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u220	As usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u221	Let's go again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u222	I'm telling you, and I'm repeating it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u223	A lot of habit hurts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u224	All right, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u225	And if it's a bad habit, it hurts twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u226	Today we will not start implementing a new regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u227	Last month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u229	Please have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I will just point out that. Contracts shall be adopted in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution. There is no particular debate, but only the parties to justify their position. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u231	And they vote ad hoc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u232	We are now coming and we are amending the laws, which have been passed on to the tactics, I would call it a procedure, they have been passed by the committees, they have suffered the suffering of both Parliament and the publicity that is required. So consider now, ladies and gentlemen, why the Constitution and the Rules distinguish between the adoption of conventions. I will say that because, Mr President, it is important. A contract signed by the Greek state or accepted by the whole or rejecting it. You can't interfere with making changes. You can reject it, of course. While a regulation, which comes as an amendment to an existing law, must follow the consistency and procedure adopted by the basic law. In this sense, we propose that these amendments should not be discussed. I am not going to talk about any constitutional obstacles that may arise, but already the practice followed with the tolerance of the Bureau is good, because the views of the Members are heard, but neither is the time sufficient nor the right to legislate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u233	On the basis of what has been said, we will proceed to the process. Does the House agree, or should we vote, on the basis of the Bureau's proposal? I think we should move on. By a majority, we will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u234	So you're saying no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no. By a majority, Mr. Loverdos. There are different opinions. You heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u236	Did you reject what we proposed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u237	I can't make up my mind. The House will decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u238	Aren't you going to reserve the vote on the whole vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u239	That is the proposal from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u240	We ask you to apply Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Loverdos, I answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u242	And you say'majority'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u243	I said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u244	Say at least the Bureau will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u245	I said there would be consensus on what we say in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u246	I did not propose on a point of order. I had to fill in. I told you at the end, put this on. Did you meet as a Bureau? Do you reject it on your own? Does SYRIZA reject it? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u247	Is that a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u248	I'm asking myself a question. What am I supposed to do? Decide on our own?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u249	Do that. What are you asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u250	I told you. To implement Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the vote on the whole, if any, will be taken at a next sitting. That requires Article 104. You will either say 'no' or the majority will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u251	We'll put it to the vote. That's what I told you. I said either that there would be a consensus or that it would be put to the vote. I just said I'm seeing a majority climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u252	It's a parliamentary matter, it's not a ministerial matter. What does Mr. Maddash say? To tell us 'no'. What do the Annells say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Mandas said he was in agreement with the proposal. In any case, it shall be put to the vote. Does the House agree with the Bureau's proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u254	The Bureau's proposal shall therefore be accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u255	That's right. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u256	The groups shall be expressed with their rapporteur and with the parliamentary representative. Did the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative say no to you? This is where the ANELs did not say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u257	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman was drafted with the proposal from the Bureau, which is not my personal name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u258	So SYRIZA refuses this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Mada, do you want the floor again to say what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u260	Clearly it was what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u261	Good. A majority of the Bureau's proposals are therefore accepted. Mr Papapas, special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, for five minutes, has the floor to place himself on the principle of agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, may I have the floor to put forward a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u263	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u264	I would like to make a legal correction to the third agreement, the third draft law of ratification of the Programmatic Agreement No. A 1424. At the end of the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Minister. Mr Pappas, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for five minutes to be placed at the outset of the agreements. Mr. Poppa, will you be placed on the agreements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u266	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u268	As far as the sanctions being passed by the Ministry of National Defence are concerned, the first thing about the agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt is, of course, moving in the right direction and can work in favour of the Greek interests. However, it is essential for this to happen that it is the Greek side to demonstrate that it is acting on the basis of a long-term strategy, and for the purpose of serving specific strategies, diplomatic objectives, which can be promoted and supported through military diplomacy, which - in our view - the last Memorandum of Understanding, both the Government of Samaras - Venizelos and the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos, do not do in any case. At a given time, the fact is that in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, there is largely a matching of strategic alliance interests between Greece and Egypt. The government of Egypt takes the view that it is threatened by the Ottoman policy of Turkey in Erdogan, who had unequivocally supported the Muslim brothers in Egypt and whose government has been set aside following the decisive intervention of the Egyptian armed forces in favour of Egypt's present government. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, gentlemen, are you interested in hearing about what you'll be voting on in a while? You don't care? So you're badly in here in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u269	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u270	It is wrong to tell your constituents that you are not interested in your work. Mr President, please impose order!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u271	Please, no interactive conversation, Mr. Pappa! You have the floor and I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u272	But they are shouting, Mr President! What's here? Is that habra?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Papadopoulos, please, be quiet. Mr. Pappa, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u274	Any military diplomacy and cooperation gains greater importance under these Treaties. It is necessary for the memorandum of military cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of Greece and Egypt to be the headline with which Greece will succeed in promoting its three major strategic objectives: EEZ, according to the International Law and the Law of the Sea, namely the acceptance of Greece's positions in favour of the demarcation of EEZ with Egypt. Secondly, the crucial issue of Turkish aggression and a threat to both Greece and the Republic of Cyprus, and thirdly, bilateral cooperation on the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean within the national EEZ. Despite the fact that the draft law under discussion relates only to military cooperation, it is clear that the careful moves and actions by the Greek Ministry of National Defence in this bilateral agreement could make a key contribution to the promotion and acceptance of Greek positions and strengthen the Greek Republic, precisely because of the enhanced role of Egyptian armed forces and their influence on Egyptian politics, as I said before. In this direction, for example,... Mr. Minister of National Defence, are you here? He's not here. We'll tell him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u275	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u276	Is he here? He's talking. Mr. National Defence Minister, take a few suggestions and note them if you consider them beneficial to Greek foreign policy. Some proposals could be proposed to you as follows: Firstly, the conduct of joint military exercises in areas of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean with Egypt. Secondly, the pursuit of participation in any way by the Cypriot Armed Forces in this military cooperation. I am pleased that it has already been done. Thirdly, the meeting of the Joint Military Committee referred to in Article 5 in Kastelorizo, events that, if they took place at least once, would also mean the acceptance of the Greek EEZ positions by Egypt and would bring Turkey a de facto diplomatic position. So with Egypt's support for the demarcated EEZ between the two states, we could initially exploit the underwater mineral wealth, natural gas, etc., as I said before. We would also have significant benefits for our defence industry. We believe, however, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is fully subordinate to the jewels of foreigners. You have repeatedly carried out tests in the field of diplomacy and you have failed miserably, exposing our country and failing to serve our national interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u277	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u278	As far as Egypt is concerned, you do not have the guarantees, which would even allow the good judge to trust you, in order to bring a happy end to the Greek efforts to implement any transnational agreement and convention. Cooperation is beneficial, but that is why we are voting 'at present'. The second Convention concerns airspace, SESAR Clearing, namely the Air Traffic Management Research Programme of the Single European Sky. We are voting against because we believe that this will possibly mean reductions in our national sovereignty, and we believe that this convention serves only NATO's hawks, serves the naval pursuits, in which the Golden Dawn, the nationalist populist movement is politically opposed. We are therefore voting against. We come to the disputed third convention, Minister, which is my personal view that this has brought you to the committee itself, to be the same here today and not your State Secretary. It is a ratification of importance for you, of military cooperation with Israel. This agreement proves that the state is constantly in place. I mean not only the current Tsipras - Kammenos government but also the previous governments. From personal information I had from an active general of the Greek Army, there has always been great interest in the cooperation with Israel, even in the era of Avramopoulos, as well as in the era of Panos Panagiotopoulos. It was that time when the peculiar Minister of the New Democracy, former Minister of the Panagiotopoulos, had been recruited according to the information I had, even in retired officer - please! - the Greek Army for inter-institutional contacts with Israel. You should know that Israel has not only geostrategic objectives in the region, but it has mainly economic objectives, which are not other than armaments programmes. In particular, for today and for our controversial position on Israel, I shall then read exactly what I have said from the Minutes. After emphasising that there is no clear benefit for the Greek side, I said that at the level of obtaining military know-how for our country, and I read from the Minutes. "The military know-how and the military capacity of our country's soldiers shall not be promoted by this agreement to such an extent as to justify the conclusion of this cooperation. Nor on a financial level is there any direct visible and clear economic benefit arising from the application of the agreement being ratified. On the contrary, there is a certain burden on the state budget. Therefore, the signed agreement is not a source from which there is apparent and calculated benefits for Greece at the level of economic, military and diplomatic level. But even if that were to happen, even if it were, it does not rebut the great truth, which says that the State of Israel is clearly violating the decisions of the UN Security Council, as well as its totalitarianness and applying methods of genocide of the indigenous population, namely the real owners of the land of Palestine, who are not the martyr Palestinian people. Finally, the State of Israel is a rioter in the Mediterranean Eastern basin and is a hidden nuclear power and is a sub-centenary enemy of Orthodoxy and Hellenism. We must also not forget that this state, it murders its inhabitants - the Palestinians, that is - and we must not forget that this state is imprisoning children. We must not forget that this state kills children. So what does this state have to do with Greece, which is the cave of culture and humanism? We are, of course, voting against the articles of the bill and we will be here on the details of the House," as I am doing at the moment. That is what I said, ladies and gentlemen, in committee, and I cannot get anything back. Next of the committee's spokesmen, we had the well-known political opponent, the so-called hybrid MP of the JRC Mr. Liana Kanellellis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u279	Please, Mr Pappa, on this point, because the debate will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u280	...to be placed and abusing the Golden Dawn. He has received the appropriate answers from us. I'm not going to stand on this. Animosity and adversity are known.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Pappa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u282	In closing the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, Mr Kammenos (Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to agree with my colleague, Mrs Liana Kanelles, on the reports that have been made here by the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn with specific phrases and what I shall propose, Mr President, having the service in your place and I think it would be more useful for us to have the consent of our fellow Members or the minutes of the debate, to go to the President of the Igos, in order to judge the implementation of the Greek agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u283	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u284	... within the framework of the OSCE Agency, etc.’. Firstly, we should thank Mr Kammenos - and I shall end, Mr President - because, at party tactics, a political boulder proves itself to be a political boulder. It literally brings us to the plate all its displeased, easily confiscated and deceived former voters. Not only his well-known policy of cubism but also his late alliance with the JRC, where with this position the so-called right-wing partner of the government became literally the tail of Mrs Liana Kanelli. Secondly, to remind him of this, which if he doesn't know it, it's time for him to know it if he wants to be a politician. From the site, which is obviously opposed to the Golden Dawn, on December 1, 2015. It's Ben Norton's words that obviously...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u285	Please, you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u286	I shall conclude, Mr President. I read: "The real victim of the 40-year anniversary was the truth - and of course, like four decades ago, the Palestinians. However, while UN General Assembly Resolution 3379 has been revoked, the truth cannot be revoked. Zionism was and undoubtedly remains a racist movement, just like any other nationalist and nationalist movement." I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u287	Please complete your time, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u288	Give me a minute, please. Another site.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u289	Commenting on the sites now, I do not think it offers the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u290	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u291	But please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Cammene, what I'm going to give you to read, don't you know? You are not aware that your fellow believer, Mr Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel, is currently the greatest danger to peace in the region with its extreme separatist expansion, with victims not only of the Palestinians but also of the Israeli people themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Pappa, we're getting away from this. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I will give an article of the monk Abraham, Ayorite... [[Noise in the Chamber]] "The Zionism as an external enemy of Hellenism".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u295	Please, finish! You can submit them to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Cammene, can you please go to the Convent and see the Holy Abbotty? You won't be able to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u297	Please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u298	I'll be done. Mr. Cammene, you can go wherever you want, you can do whatever you want. Your political history, particularly in the past year, has been a crucial harm to your political haughtiness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Pappa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u300	I shall conclude, Mr President. You acquired what you acquired, you achieved the purpose you had since the beginning of May 2012...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u301	Please complete, Mr. Pappa. You are completely out of the question and another dimension will be given to the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u302	You now belong to the political past. For your dignity, your fascination and your own goodness, I urge you with the ancient Greek "critton slowly".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u305	Mrs. Kanelli, before I give you the floor, I've got to make some announcements. MP Dimitrios Gatis, a member of the SYRIZA, is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u306	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some announcements to this House. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 2-6-2016: ‘Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland on cooperation in the field of defence material’. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Maritime Policy submitted a draft law on 2-6-2016 on "Structuring the Administrative Arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the ATHENA Mechanism on Transport and Transport Services passed by the Multinational Maritime Strategy Centre (POSETHAM)". The Ministers of National Defence, Economic, Foreign and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 2-6-2016: ‘Following the Coordination Committee Agreement as part of the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM)’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 31-5-2016, a criminal case for the former Minister of Health Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor, please. Of course, there will be a relative understanding to develop your positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. I don't suppose I need to have a extra reason to comment on the right to be an occupation. There are things seriously. There are things that are unharmed. At the level of ridiculousness I cannot identify myself on personal grounds, while on the contrary, when you talk about neo-nazi views and someone gets them on staff and goes down from his office, he has identified himself. It's all over. I don't need to identify anything. The rest is for the TVs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u308	Mrs. Canelle, help the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u309	I will help the process as long as the procedure needs to be assisted by itself, which is not even assisted by the Rules of Procedure. It cannot be helped in the process, only when it comes to the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u310	No, I said it for everyone. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u311	Only when it comes to the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u312	No, don't say that. I said it for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u313	I know very well, and right now what you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u314	Leave it, Mr President, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Karathanasopus, for all of us, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u316	Come on. Stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u317	I said it for everyone. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u318	You were tolerating exactly ten minutes without interrupting and accepting paroles...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u319	I'll give you the same time, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u320	Be careful, you accepted misgivings about how the conversation should take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u322	I won't be willing to do that to you either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u323	It happened twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u324	You've eaten me just one minute and eleven seconds. I'm asking. One minute and eleven seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u325	I'll give you the time, Mrs. Canelley. I'm not eating you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u326	Look at that. Because I've been doing this for a long time, not the MP, but the man who plays with seconds in time and because I don't need any videos in here, showing my slutty to play on the site, to pick up dots - because these things have been heard here too - let me stay on the essence. We have three contracts. We are now actually plucking these conventions into the desirability of atrocious amendments. Let me talk about them. I was placed in the committee in detail and asked for two clarifications. In any case, in order not to confuse anyone, especially the ladies and gentlemen who are in the Minutes, we are voting against all three. Let me say it from the beginning, so it can be clear. We are voting against them for different reasons, but basically for one. They do not serve, in our view, the people's interests of this country and also the people's interests of the people of Israel and the people of Egypt, and do not serve them, because we have seen what military diplomacy means. Military diplomacy means using the country's Armed Forces to promote the economic interests of a certain class, the ruling class. To say this quite simply - let me not bother anyone, they are not urban residents - of the urban order of the countries. They have nothing to do with it. We have seen that, as many times as military diplomacy has emerged, neither the people of Mali have enriched nor have the people of Sudan avoided segregation into North and South Sudan. I am very much afraid if you have on the back of your head, when you talk about a single blue, clouded, grey, European sky, then our minds should go to NATO, the exercise of military diplomacy by NATO and the agreement of the classes of Greece and Turkey, for example, which are allies within NATO in terms of promoting the diplomatic military forms of services that NATO provides in and outside the European Union with an ally of Turkey, with the line in Nicosia being in its place, invasion and occupation being in its place and not being recognised. So these words are very beautiful about military diplomacy, at least to be visible and to be heard in here, and people understand that they are nothing but the use of each country's armed forces, and that needs to be considered by the members and officers of the armed forces what they are serving when they come within the framework of the promotion of economic issues. Such an agreement, for example, is that of Egypt. We have seen and know how much something is currently being discussed in Europe, if anything happens in Egypt, with two and three Tahrir squares, with popular riots, with military procedures, with the closure of the squares and riots, and the 'Arab Spring', which you said so much. And now the debate in Europe is no longer saying anything - take down what you want - and beat any refugees from Egypt, because there will be many. This is the debate realistically. Valz, coming from France today, between the others, what's he going to talk about? How the military forces will intervene in Libya and how they legalise it. Libyan oil has not been taken by the Libyan people and its pocket has been boldly filled and has thrived. Even the capitals were broken, one in Benghazi, and now we are discussing how to unify them. That's military diplomacy. Because he will, as you know, be doing too good in Libya. It will not divide it ethnicly, as it did in Yugoslavia, so that we do not forget. So we're going to Israel. Israel has peculiarities. Minister, I would ask you, in your five-minute answer, to add just one thing to me. You spoke about economics, and I have made a point to you, because in the second part of this agreement, you say that there will be additional agreements with the nature of implementing agreements. Since the contract application agreements do not go through the House, we will not be able to control them, we will lose the account. What are we gonna do? We will take your Ministry every day to ask what agreement to implement this convention will you go with Israel? You had spoken of finance. Can you rule out the soldiers from me without passing through the House? I mean partnerships and supplementary agreements of a military nature, which you yourself might say in the Israeli defence, for us to be aggressive against the Palestinians against other peoples. I have heard you talk about economic development in the region and you have mentioned all the countries other than Lebanon. You spoke of Jordan, you spoke of it, you spoke of it. Lebanon is not a country that has refugees and is suffering more than once from the small imperialist in the region. These are two clarifications I want. I'm going to the Single European Sky. I asked you for clarification, and I guess I'll have them today. What has happened since the Single European Sky has been implemented, to which we have said no, with regard to its military form today being implemented by the planning and military implementation of SESAR? Why do we have problems with the Turks? If this Single European Sky exists, the objections should be greater, more substantial and more formal and almost automated in the political field. You speak, and every day, I conspired humanity about the accidents likely to happen in the Aegean, about the increased chances of happening something that no one wants. Right, in the air. Don't talk about the sea. Present at NATO and present at NATO ships in the region, what is the meaning of this'single European sky', which is militant to some extent? Because all countries are supposed to have brought your military problems in. Is the Single European Sky in trouble between Brussels and Copenhagen? Because the only single one at the moment is as far as the suitcases are concerned. If you lose your suitcases, you'll have to go to Brussels to make it clear. It's the only one, how the suitcases move, and I say it is to scan the reality. The Single European Sky did not help the country in its trade, nor does it help it at that level. He said two words to the committee - to be serious about contracts and to speak in depth - that the Minister will not be counted as a border for those who remain unravelly, in terms of a piece to the east, not to say many details that should not be said here outside the text of Istanbul. But there is a tenacity of the Turks to aeronautic occupation greater than NATO's existing and pre-decided NATO, which is not, in any case, uniform at sea level, at air level. We don't have a single airspace within NATO. We got six more, eight more. Casus belli was twelve. You are now coming in here and talking to us about a single, blue, wonderful, peaceful and military single European sky. We want assurances. Where does this sky begin and where does it end? Where is clouds and what ethnic planes within the European Union or outside NATO will they come to do so? Because at the moment you have Lithuanian and Baltic helicopters with FRONTEX. You'll have such planes guarding the air, too, and how? I tell you as a man who has flew into the area - my great honor! - by coincidence and he is a "principal" pilot of the Air Force, who at the time he had this experience, knows very well that the convenience of the human error does nothing but slander against most of the times the members of the Armed Forces, pilots who give their lives or funerals and memorials that are tanning, like the very recent Eliaki with allegedly indignation and honor for his brother, who kept the pretexts for both the people and for the officers at such heroes. We are voting against all three. I repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u329	You're welcome. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u330	But I want the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u331	I've given the floor to the Minister. He'll talk and talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u332	Before he talks, I need the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u333	But I've given it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u334	I'm telling you on a point of order. I am not going to talk about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u335	Minister, do you want him to lead?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u336	Let Mr. Lykoudi take the floor. Let him get ahead of himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u337	Good, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, today we have followed the classic procedure concerning how we are discussing sanctions. I therefore have no objections to the way you handled the procedure. I know that the controversies, the opposition and those who have voted in committee are talking at this stage. But there is one problem, Mr President. I am simply saying this to record - I do not want to do anything today to change the procedure - to hear it and the President-in-Office of this House and to know that there is a question, which is not the first time it seems. All the others, for example, have voted positively on the ratification of these conventions, how can it develop the reasoning with which it has voted positively? For example, I fully respect the support of the contracts that the Minister will make from his side. It is not at all certain that we can have the same support content. I may have said different things with my own interest, which you listen to with your own interest and I'd like them to be recorded. This logic therefore leads us to silence, which abolishes dialogue at the end. Where do you lead us, Mr. President? You are driving us - because I hear other objections from colleagues - sometimes to go to the convenience of the present so that we can then go to plenary as half an objection to speaking, say our views, bearing in mind that we will vote positively at the end. So I think we need to see how this process is being conducted, and that is why, Minister, I wanted to speak before you. I didn't get to the point, but please look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Lykoudis, we said we had a priority. Sayers when they ask for the floor will have it. You understand that. Priority, however, is given to the contributors. This applies over time. If they ask for the floor and the speakers will have it. I don't think anyone's in the way of talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u340	There is no one in the Rules of Procedure for lingers. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u341	If they ask for the floor, Mrs. Canelley. Everyone has the right to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u342	There's not that for the spearheads. It is given the floor to the rivals. There are no fifty shades of 'yes'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u343	Okay. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. I will respect what Mr Lykoudi said and I think it will be useful for us all to remain in the positions we have taken in the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, for why everyone votes on these agreements. I will not develop the positions of the government. I will simply say that, for our Government, these agreements are of particular importance to the geopolitical position of Greece. It is particularly important that they have had the great support of the majority of the parties in this House, for their own reasons, of course, each party. I am not going to smoke anyone, because, indeed, everyone can have supported these agreements for their own reasons or not supported them. The opportunity for the parties who voted 'no' to support their own position was given. So I will be very brief. I shall reply to the specific questions raised on the part of the Communist Party, by Mrs Kanelle. First of all, I assure you once again in plenary that the Greek Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence will never be a permanent tactic of the Greek Armed Forces and of the Greek national politics - to take part in war operations in our neighborhood, which will put us in a difficult position with friends and allied countries. Friends and allied countries are not just those belonging to the European Union and NATO. Friends and allied countries are also the ones with which Greece traditionally has links of friendship and cooperation. This includes Israel and the Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority. Our constant practice is that we should never engage in such an involvement, which can make these relations difficult in our region, while remaining faithful to our allied obligations and clarifying this issue to our allies, which is absolutely clear, regardless of the governments that change. It therefore does not conceal the contract with Israel with any minister in the future, extending this convention, to carry out such an action, which is not described by this agreement, or which can expose good relations of friendship and cooperation. The second issue relates to the Third Convention with the European Heaven. You all know it's an agreement, which is essentially about the transformation of the FIR. This will come first at political level, that is, at the level of civil aviation. What this Convention does is essentially to anticipate possible interferences with the Armed Forces and in particular with our Air Force. It is not a binding convention, in other words, that we will follow the political decisions that the Civil Aviation Service can make, although nothing changes, even at the level of civil aviation in relation to the existing air borders. Because you have made a reference to NATO aircraft participating in the joint operation to deal with refugee and immigration, I assure you that, on the side of the NSR-2 naval forces involved in this operation, there is absolute respect for Greek sovereignty and the rules on flight permits are followed, as foreseen, without any violation. The violations that are taking place on the Turkish side, infringements of national airspace and overcomings continue to take place. I can say here to the House that we have in the last fifteen days a very large reduction in these violations. We are particularly happy when there are no such violations and involvements. However, when they exist, there will be intercept - that is a given - by the Greek Armed Forces, by the Hellenic Air Force. Infringements can only be made by Turkish Air Force and. All have to deal with strategic planning, i.e. intercepted With regard to the amendments tabled, the Minister of Finance and the Ministers responsible - Mr Skourletis, the Ministry of Labour and Mr Tsakalotos - will develop them. The ministerial amendments are four. On behalf of the Government, I would like to say that I accept the amendment tabled by my fellow Members, Mr Balaura...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u345	You all have to sign them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u346	Mr Varvitsiotis, you have not tabled any amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u347	You all have to sign them. You're the man in charge...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u348	May I sign the MEPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u349	The government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u350	The government regarding the Department of Defense, whatever it is, I've signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u351	And the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Brutsis is dragging you. Don't be lured by Mr. Brutsi. The amendment by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, me and the Minister for Justice, is signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u353	It's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u354	The amendment is signed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u355	All four?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u356	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u357	Let's get you guys to see her then. Please, if you can, put an amendment to Mr Varvitsiotis. She's signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u358	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u359	With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Balaouras and Mrs Vayonakis on the extension of the merger of the regional FVO, as the relevant Minister, Mr Kourublis, and the Secretary-General of the Government informed me, the government is accepted for the extension of the three-month period. I have an amendment from Mr Loverdos and Mr Amyras. I would like to tell you that as far as this amendment is concerned, although it has been tabled to the first Convention - and you know well, Mr Loverdos, that in the first Convention and in the second, concerning the Convention with Israel and Egypt, there can be no amendments, because this convention is bilateral - the Ministry of National Defence has intervened in this matter since the first time. I, too, thought that Olympic properties could not be provided after the burdens imposed by Kallithea, the Gjitzifis and the coastal towns were unaware of the municipalities. For this reason, the Ministry of National Defence immediately granted the Ministry of Justice - and it was accepted by the Minister of Justice - military space to carry out the prescribed trials. That was accepted. There was never a matter. I assure you, on behalf of the Government, and not only as Minister of National Defence or as Chief of Independent Greeks - why we have intervened since the first moment - that this issue has ended. The question of the possible use of a building on the coastal zone from the Ministry of Justice does not exist. It's over. There's no such thing as that. I also confirm the river Parliamentary Group that this issue has ended. It's taken care of. The trials will be held in Ruff asking for a larger space from the Ministry of Justice. On the question of whether or not an amendment tabled by Mr Brutsis and Mr Varvitsiotis has been signed on the subject of special wages...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u360	Minister, the area has been heavily aggravated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u361	Make the amendment and the amendment acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u362	What amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Loverdou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u364	I cannot accept it in Cyprus as it has been tabled. We should be happy to amend it. I'm telling you it's for granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u365	Has the New Democracy submitted before, which you rejected as government, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u366	The New Democracy has tabled nothing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u367	...and your commitments from the Step do not bind anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u369	Mr Brutsi, there is no amendment. If you have tabled an amendment, please give it to me. There is no amendment at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u370	Not today. Ten days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u371	If it was another day in another bill, that I can't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u372	Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u373	Anyway, there is no point in tabling an amendment. They intervened at the Kallithea Municipal Council with the Government and the Ministry of Justice, and I assured that there is no such issue, because this was indeed a matter that would be unfair to the wider region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u374	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for an interactive debate. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u375	As far as the issue of special wages is concerned, I would like to tell you that the Prime Minister referred personally in his last speech. I assure you, as Minister of National Defence, that the draft law is ready for the Ministry of National Defence, which includes the precise codes, as requested, where the cuts will be made. It will cover the corresponding amounts and will not be charged to the personnel of the Armed Forces. It will be tabled much earlier than September that this amendment provides for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u376	There will be a special debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u377	I'm just saying it so there's no involvement in not signing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u378	No, there's gonna be a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u379	I would like to say to you that, following on from the amendments which will be taken by the co-legislators, I will come from the ministerial stations and go to the independent Greeks. We today as Independent Greeks have specific codes relating to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, the Ministry of Justice, beyond the Ministry of National Defence, which exactly cover the possibilities that the Ministries will have in the summer to legislate to prevent there from being, as the Prime Minister and the Government promised, no burden on the citizens who belong to the special wages, and I am referring in particular to the Armed Forces, the Security Body, the judiciary and all others who are on the special wage bills. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Loverdo, why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u383	The amendment that accepts its contents, but cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u384	Please, why are you asking for a reason? There will be a special debate on the amendments. We're starting now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u385	If the Minister does not accept it, the debate is closed. I just want to say a word to him. Give me the floor. Otherwise, I have to ask until the end of the procedure. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u386	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u387	Good and I'll be done. Mr. Karras, who is an experienced lawyer, and I had a timely question with the Minister, but also with other opportunities that we have tabled this amendment, we said that Ruf is a court of law. Are the rest of them free spaces? The Minister told us - the other Minister, not the Justice - 'we will go with Mr Kammenos to inspect and if he does me to conduct my trials with a large number of witnesses, parties, etc., then yes.' With effect from 6 March, the regulation has not been repealed. And as you know well, with a personal assurance of a good intention of Minister, the law is not abolished. And that choice had been made without any one of you knowing. So we say, because there is no problem with procedural matters, that you do not accept it now, because it is a bilateral agreement and what does it mean? All the amendments come to agreements. The agreements we had yesterday weren't bilateral? The non-acceptance because you may tell me 'to see it with Mr Paradise' stands. However, you will say to me 'we do not do so even though I do not want it, because the present convention does not allow it'. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] So please put an end to this, the weeks pass, the issue is not solved. That's a little bit of a suspect. There was one issue - I do not want to make specific references - concerning the trial of the President of the court that the Ministry of Justice does not give it to the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u388	Please, Mr. Loverdo, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u389	For a trial involving really many, well-known trial. So, under pressure of needs and things, often good mood is not enough. You accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u390	Minister, on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u391	Mr Minister, we are talking about the amendments. There will be a separate debate on the amendments, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u393	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u394	Your amendment cannot be accepted, Mr Kegeroglu. Yours cannot be accepted, will not be discussed. For the amendment that Mr Loverdos says, I have no objections to sit down and write about the third bill. I have no objection to this explanatory statement, which you have written up here, to redraft the article in the third draft law and to sign it, if you want us to do so. But in the first convention on the subject of the agreement, it cannot enter the bilateral convention. There's a commitment I'm telling you. We are very happy to find the way to pass it on to the third by the end of the debate. There is no question, but it is a commitment from the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u395	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u396	I spoke to Mr Paradoxopoulos, we saw the space and we will examine everything we can to serve the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Minister. Now on the amendments, they will be discussed and supported in a number of amendments by the Members. Petroleum, Skourlet, Tsakalot and Chrysovelon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u399	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, since a matter has been raised yesterday by the Parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, as today - and because the points raised in procedural terms, but also in substance with arguments, must not be resolved by silence or by imposition, I would like to say two things on this matter and on the procedure to be followed, in order to clarify the scope that we can really agree on - and I think we can agree. The relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure, 104, is correct because it leaves a margin of one day or at any rate next, so that all the amendments, additional articles, etc. Perhaps, as has been done many times in the proposal for a bill, they can be incorporated and in a way of total knowledge of all the Members of Parliament and then be able to put them in a vote without the existence of a bias or the problem that can be created. He has good predictions within him, in relation to normal and regular legalization. It is not one of the things that needs to be changed, because others can and must change about how the House works. In this sense, that is to say the fact that the matter is raised, it has a reasonable basis for being raised. From 2010 to 2014, at least twenty bills, sanctions or non-judgment, a special procedure has been followed, which you know and which is why you were placed. It is at least 20 where amendments, ministerial or parliamentary have been accepted. Because in other bills they were not accepted, so there was no question. In other words, they had not been submitted, they had not been accepted and were taken over. But, where only three or four ministerial and other Members of Parliament were accepted, the votes were held on the same day. This is not right to become a regime or to mention this earlier period of time means that this process must be followed comfortably and constantly. If something different could be done today, it is also true that the honourable Member - like all of us - has raised the question of the fact that we could go to a vote on the whole tomorrow. This cannot be the case, in that there is a need for this bill to be passed today. It is the real justification in this regard. We have also spoken with the Finance Minister, namely the Government, in this regard. We don't have that power, which would be more right, to go this way. I say this directly in plenary. I would therefore ask you to accept this procedure by way of exception, as was the previous one, and not by custom or jurisprudence, to be accepted by the Chamber and to proceed according to what you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u401	On that basis I have moved, Mr President. I don't think there's a matter. Please, Mr. Petropoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not introducing new provisions, except the one mentioned, following the Prime Minister's commitment, that the return of the CSCE will not be discussed, because by means of the provision that we are introducing, the new provision, as is the case for the CSCE, will start on 1 June 2016. The lack of legislation has therefore been covered by this provision on the subject of the CSCE and the regulation of the CSCE for our fellow citizens who, as always, have been obliged to repay the sum which they have received over and above the provision in question each time in previous years. Today they are not being sought by this provision, which we expressly put to them to be from 1 June 2016 onwards. Other formalities are of a technical nature. Refer in particular to additional and clarificational interventions for the already adopted provisions of L.4387/2016 on insurance reform. I am explaining the most essential of them. It would be unnecessary to refer to mere philosophical reprints of certain points. For the clarity of each provision alone, they have been made, not to repeat them. I don't think it matters very much. If I have to, of course I'll answer for anyone who might have a question. We have a provision that abolishes - that is to say, the text at your disposal - the resources. Refers to resources since 1940 and to various periods of time. They concern contributions paid by lawyers mainly and engineers, as the pension calculation system now relates to the contribution, which is calculated on the net revenue from these free traders, our scientists, in their economic activity. Therefore, we have also responded to a reasonable request from the scientific branches not to be charged with a sum which did not really make sense to charge them, as the levy is calculated on net revenues. I think it was reasonable to do so, and I think that you will all accept it, because it makes no sense to keep such a burden on a sector which has to pay differently its social security contributions. You will see that the other provisions do not require much analysis, because they actually want to resolve confusion caused by both public and private officials. So where a different calculation resulted, a correction is made of this disparity that caused omissions in the law. Thus, for civil servants, the calculation of their insurance age is accurate. It does not increase because it was six months and one day to be one year. Because it is no longer important to calculate the pension, since it depends solely on the contributions paid. There is no effect on age of insurance, except on the acquisition and acquisition of the right as an overall period of insurance. This distinction in this respect therefore did not make sense to be maintained. Also, there is a correction that was left in the law by a mistake. The calculation of the one-off was set at 75% of the average pension earnings for the last five years, multiplied by the years of insurance, for the selfemployed, instead of 60% for the rest. It was an obvious mistake by mistake. There is no need to distinguish between the categories of insured persons. These are the essentials. If there's anything you want to ask or ask, I'll come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Petersburg. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Skourletis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. These are some clarifications and more verbal clarifications in the articles relating to the NOME type auction mechanism and how they are calculated, as well as in the possibilities of the Energy Regulatory Authority to intervene according to the objectives of the tenders set by the law, when they are exceeded by itself in the market process, in terms of achieving these objectives. Finally, there is even clearer reference to the role of the Independent Regulatory Authority for Energy so that conditions of competition can always be ensured on the electricity market. Also, in relation to IPTO, what is clarified is the timeframe for the tender procedure alone, as well as the necessary changes in the statutes to be made to IPTO after the private investor has been found. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days, since the vote, and immediately thereafter, there have been many who have come out to say that 'we have pressed' and that there would be pressures to change the basic content of the two specific amendments, which concerned the new IPTO and the subsequent abolition of the previous law on privatization, as well as the mechanism of power auctions and the subsequent abolition of this small PPC law. Once again, those Cassandras of the well-known media, which predicted that we would have a retreat, were denied. I would like to say that in the last bill we voted on, there was a provision, among others, concerning the abolition of excise duty on natural gas for electricity producers. The positive effect of this measure has already begun to appear on the market. And I would just mention in yesterday's communication from the Public Power Corporation that we will be going to 15% household tariff discounts for consistent customers, including those who have entered the 30-six-dollar regime. So you see, despite the difficult circumstances, the government always finds ways to put a positive social mark on the measures it takes. The measure that has been very much responded at the moment - I am referring to the thirty-six-six-dose PPC arrangements - and it has tangible results now. For the first time, after years, there have been signs of declining pressure compared to the dues to PPC. This, together with the low gas and oil prices, now enables us in this market that opens up electricity, to go to this very important and substantial reduction, which takes place on 1 July, for domestic consumers. I think that the signs not only from the energy field but overall for the economy will begin to be positive, visible. Within this year we will all be able to see and claim that the economy is safely entering into a new rhythm and a stable recovery track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor. These are two amendments, Mr Chakalote, 467 and 448.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that today we will end with the first part of our government's account, which was with the recapitalisation of the banks, the closure of the first assessment and the debt agreement. Many people, even though they are patriots and love this state and nation, did not want this success. But I think that their last attempt through the media, that is to say that things will come even worse in these tails than we saw in the bill, does not seem at all. I think you will all be convinced that the changes we have are the most precise and whoever voted in favour of the bill a few days ago will have no reason to vote now. Let me say more specifically that in tax matters, Amendment Nos 468 and 30, it relates to tax provisions, and we proceed to two legal corrections. One concerns the new revenue authority, and the other relates to the correction of a mistake about the tax on beer. In paragraph 3, a reduced rate of additional tax on immovable property of public limited companies is abolished for the sake of equal treatment of all companies. Therefore, the additional tax rate is 5,5% as for the other companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u407	You'll close them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u408	With regard to the automatic fiscal adjustment mechanism, which I hear is appreciably worse than some newspapers - which have already reached us for their validity in the last two weeks with forecasts that have probably not come out - the mechanism is not getting harder. It is simply clarified that in some cases, when there are secondary effects, they will also be included in the new fund. With the provisions of this article, we are making some necessary legal corrections and additions to the correct application of the law. The main difference is that we include in the EBA the tourist properties belonging to the EOT and which are already exploited by the EBRD. Another important point is that a preliminary examination is commissioned to the Supreme Judiciary for the members of the SPS Board and that the various provisions relating to the SWEDEN - financial statements, wherever you were involved, etc. - are corrected as a result of the new structure of the fund. I repeat that the second and third amendments to Article 196(5) and (6) are transferred to the EBRD and the tourist property of an EBRD which is already exploited by the EBRD. With regard to special wages, we are moving towards an amendment in order to clarify more clearly the nature and the way in which the financial equivalents for the non-suspension of wage maturities for 2017 and 2018 of officials and officials paid special wages are found. The equivalents may come from the relevant ministries, but not in any case from special wages. We have changes in the Public Accounting Act as well. With the rest of the provisions we are amending the Law on Public Accountancy in order to make it easier and faster to move to the new regime on the financial services of the Ministries and to change the nature of the financial control services. With regard to the first amendment with a general number of 467 and a special 29, following the adoption of the Law on 27 May 2016 and the amendment of the Law on the transfer of loans were pending with the institutions some issues. One of the most important issues and the outcome of these in the technical agreements that followed was the legal type of management companies. The institutions wanted to delete from the provision the reference to the ‘CRD iv’ Credit and Financial Institutions Directive and we agreed, as the strict framework for authorisation and supervision of these companies provides sufficient insurance margins for their operation. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Moreover, the second important issue was the ban on increasing the loan from the fund after the sale of the loan to this spread margin of floating interest. It was a matter of what happens with these contracts, where a floating rate agreement goes to the fund and whether there is a restriction. After discussions the institutions admitted to the need for such a provision and agreed to remain the provision on the prohibition of arbitrary increase but to exclude cases where the loan contract contains specific conditions that would result in the increase of spread. We agreed, since the purpose of the provision is to prohibit the arbitrary increase in interest rates. There are some other cases that I do not think I need to analyse. If you have any questions, we will be happy to answer them. There is a second amendment that is coming at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u409	He's come and shared, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u410	Thank you. This amendment concerns the exclusion of mortgage loans, the first residence that you remember was in the law of up to EUR 140,000. We were mistaken to say that, apart from the fact that transport is prohibited, services are prohibited. That's why I'm correcting this mistake. Mr Stathakis said so in his speech that these loans may be served. What is not permitted is the transfer of these loans. The second concerns the guarantee of the Greek state which has all these red loans. We are reintroducing all of this. What was the great stress we had on these loans? After all, the interested parties are protected if there is a guarantee from the Greek State. What we were concerned about was that all of a sudden and because of the existence of the mechanism, the cutter as many say, these payments may not be shared on an equal basis every year. We may have gone beyond what we have in the primary surpluses and created a financial problem. You will see that in the MOU technique, i.e. in the technical memorandum that always exists in the memorandum, we have discussed and agreed with the institutions that the effect of falling loans with the guarantee of the Greek State will not affect the cutter. So our main concern for these loans that have the public guarantee will be covered by the technical memorandum that protects the cutter. They won't activate the cutter if these loans fall. As a major government minister said one day before the victory in January 2015, after these amendments "the sun will come out and tomorrow will come out of the east, it will fall into the west, it will be a nice day". I think whatever expectations you had...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u411	One more nice day!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u412	I know you're rude, Mr. Comrade. You don't have to prove it every time. We'll have it all the time. None of you try to interrupt me, it doesn't help. You fermented your world by the fact that there will be no evaluation, that the "hearts" will come and that the government will fall. It's time instead of interrupting, see if the New Democracy has a record. Because the account that this government will fall, we will not close the review, we will not take the debt, it has failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u413	If you give it all up, how will it fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u414	So try to tell the Greek people, except your rudeness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mrs Chrysofeloni, State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, has the floor to support part of the amendment which is on 467/29. Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to put forward a legal improvement. Firstly, the wording of paragraph 1 of the proposed regulation under No 467/29 shall be removed from 'Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7'. Secondly, in paragraph 2 of the proposed regulation, the words ‘Articles 1, 2, 3, 4’ shall be deleted. The proposed regulation is therefore recast as it will be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u417	A brief analysis I want to do. The intended arrangement aims at expressing the exclusion of Egnatia road from the arrangements set out in Article 2(7) of Law No.4388/2016 concerning analogue tolls and the installation and operation of new frontal toll stations and clarifying that the law governing it continues to apply to it, i.e. the NRA 6686-17-11-2014 (VRC B 3086). You might wonder about some things. The Greek Government and the Ministry are the fact that two weeks ago they passed the provision for the installation and operation of analogue tolls so that they can ensure better road management of the country's road network, more favourable and fair tolls for citizens, depending on the use of the network, abolish the frontal tolls, as is the case with all the modern motorways, but also to improve safety and of course environmental indicators. This provision is a fact that it has been welcomed by many Member States of the European Union, as it is clear that it is a European objective. However, it seems that the institutions, instead of supporting the quicker implementation of the system, which will make the system more attractive, safer and sustainable on the national motorways, have not had the same view, yet they are pushing too strongly, on the pretext of the current dose, to exclude Egnatia Road from this provision and to fully implement this 2014 CSM, which leads - and it is a fact - to destabilise a very important network of international transport in Greece. In order to ensure that there are no complications in the evaluation, that there are no complications in the Egnatia Road utilization model, we are today bringing this amendment exempting the Egnatia Road, and in any case we expressly commit ourselves to moving immediately to the installation of analogue tolls, starting from this motorway, namely Egnatia Road, in order to improve the existing design, which - I think we can all agree - is strategically and technologically outdated and I would also say to you nationally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u419	Please, a clarification from the State Secretary, we'd like to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u420	Yes, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u421	Before the Deputy Minister, Mrs Chrysosvelloni, mentioned the amendment that brings about the Egnatia road, that this is essentially a change that the institutions are asking for and will lead to depreciation - as she said - and, as she said, will lead to the worsening of all the conditions. And if we understood correctly, he then told us that despite this, he accepts and brings this amendment. I want this clarification as to whether it's exactly like that, if that's what we understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u422	Madam Secretary, if you would be kind enough to answer the question. It's essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u423	I responded to what was our Ministry's target when it was...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u424	Don't give up on that. What's going to happen now, Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Brutsi, let this be the way the State Secretary wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u426	We're not having a dialogue, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u427	Don't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u428	Her way, not yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u429	If you do not understand, what the country is going through, now, right now, is what you have caused and which we are trying to manage. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's the truth, no matter how bitter it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u430	You and the old PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u431	We said, then, that at the moment we cannot jeopardise the evaluation, which, despite what you were saying - and you are obviously displeased about it, and you are disturbing about it - it closes - but there is, respectively, our commitment that once this process is over, we will immediately come back with the analogue tolls as originally planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u432	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u433	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u434	Whatever you want, Mr. Colleague, you'll tell your place. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the Skinne - Fourne Chania Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now entering the position of the rapporteurs, special speakers. The list of speakers will also be opened. I just want to tell you, if the House agrees, that we should set about a year, about, finalising the procedure at around 17.00 hours. If there is any intention of a roll-call vote now, so that we can schedule the time to be held and the roll-call vote and move on, with respect for the time economy by speakers and speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, we have set ourselves the normal procedure, with speakers, with parliamentarians and so on. I don't know if 17:00 can cover us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u436	I made a proposal, which will obviously not be binding. It's a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u437	Because that's what it's like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u438	No, we're not limiting anyone. It'll be normal, don't worry. Just so that they can place themselves as much as possible and with the completeness that everyone appreciates, we will stay strictly in five minutes with the first speaker, Mr Ayhan Karayusuf, from SYRIZA. Excuse me, Mr. Aihan Karayusuf will talk later. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u439	I won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u440	You won't talk very well. The special speaker from Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, is not here. Maybe he wasn't prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u441	Is the parliamentary representative going to speak now or after that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u442	Then. So we move on to Mr. Loverdos, a special speaker from the Democratic Reconciliation. I would, of course, suggest that the list of speakers should now be opened, which can be signed and completed after the second rapporteur, whoever speaks later. I would just like to ask Mr Loverdos and anyone else who then talks, Mrs Canelle or Mr Lykoudi, to be strictly within the five-minute period that we have set.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u443	I can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u444	No, 'I can't make it. In five minutes you should know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u445	I had previously asked for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u446	I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdo, wait a minute, it was my fault. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u447	If you are so kind as to say, Mr President, I am trying to clarify: Or does Parliament and the Government consider that the Members of Parliament are superhuman, because I measure the amendments, I try to identify the essential points, I hear the ministers, I cannot, I confess, my weakness, or at the moment the government wants to take a vote regardless of respect for the Members, regardless of whether they respect any legality. This is a point of order, Mr President, and I have to put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u448	Good, Mr. Carras. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, the clarification he gave on the procedural issue we have raised, the President of the Parliament, is satisfactory at the place where every President now in the procedures for sanctions or other matters will know that the rule is another and must not be violated every day. If in four years of crisis there have been twenty-fold procedures like this in a month and a half, we cannot have done this more than ten. Let me remind you that one of those twenty was a nice Wednesday in April 2012, a law was passed and the House was dissolved. When it's extraordinary, yes, but yesterday, for example? If we were to vote today, having a day, what would happen last night? So, see it again and do not make the Rules of the House the way you have done it. I have heard the Minister of Finance suggestion in his new political view to reject all the previous ones. He forgets, of course, that the Greek people did not choose him and Mr. Tsipras as good managers against others who were not so good. He elected them for the awesome programs of Thessaloniki and for the parallel program of September. Let's leave his criticism to the press. Here, in the National Representation otherwise, it must be addressed, because the criticism he has suffered from here is different. And in this Delegation he said: 'If the May cycle closes, live we are burned!'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u450	May - June I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u451	And it would close the resurrection, and close on May 9th and May 24th, and after it was passed fifteen days ago that draft law on the cutter said the other day - and the Prime Minister that night - "the cycle is closed". And the Minister of Development a few days ago told us "here is a shutdown". And still close! What are we doing here today? We are voting for the 'crowds' of Tsakalotou, the 'urban' of Tsakalotou, as he said, the rest of it - his words - are not my phrases - in the midst of a Parliament which, despite our exemplary behaviour, still has in our relations the amount of poison that you have ever set in the world, to the citizens. So many years of hatred, you have made them weak to judge good, bad, right or wrong. Now, people and citizens are balanced. But Parliament still has side effects from the hatred that you, the late managers, have been cultivating for so many years. And let us see, ladies and gentlemen, in the very least time we have, what this 'urvey' of Tsakalotou is. The ESS. Is it possible for a man to claim that I'm making three murders and not four, don't blame me'? Is it possible to be proud, as the Prime Minister here twenty days ago, that he will not get the money from the low pensioners of the ECHR from 1 January to 1 June? That's what you're doing. For ninety thousand pensioners now, for two hundred and fifty thousand since 1 January 2017. Listen, "pipe" Tsakalotou: Bringing a semester here the money of pensioners from the ESS. And the ministers said and said, like Mr Katrugalos this morning on TV, that all of this is replaced by the minimum guaranteed income you have complained about and you will apply pilots at some point or - the most dangerous - from the national pension, the basic pension, that is to say, our own that you have just baptized it otherwise, which is a pension, is not an allowance. On this pension, the ETUC was added, not divorcingly. Now they're divorced and another pension. When something that is a pension, you have it for a temporary sacrifice at all times. A few legal needs here to enlighten those who speak today without knowing. And an argument he has said it and a journalist of the newspaper "SYGI" on a television show and ate his language after that, the government says so many times. He says: "And the mail Hardouvelis said that it was an instrument to do, a redesign of the CSCE." I'm abolishing, as you dismantle, another redesign. That's all for the ESS. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u452	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u453	I won't get enough, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u454	No, don't start right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u455	I recommend a whole draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u456	Then all the speakers will say 'as Mr Loverdes spoke'. Please have it completed in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u457	No, I will finish, Mr President. I recommend the views of a political party on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u458	But there are other parties. It's Mr. Davakis after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u459	And the other parties will take time. They're all prepared and they're gonna need their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u460	Don't push me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u461	We made a settlement about the retired person's relationship working with his money. I can't tell you what you did. And we did it for the rightful high pension. The voices we have heard and the charges I do not want to repeat. We distinguished the pensioner who works, the person who is over fifty-five years old or below - the lower one is prematurely retired - and the amount he took and went proportionately to the arrangement. You're coming now and you're cutting 60%. What are you? What's your political identity? How are you justifying what you have said and saying now to the world, the voices that you are in favour of the poor, with what you do every day here and now in the "ura" Tsakalotou? Reduction to single. Twenty days ago you had made the arrangements. And you're modifying your 20days ago with the "heavy" Tsakalotou today! Can you hear me, ladies and gentlemen, how will it be done by the Public Staff Fund in the 'urban' Tsakalotou, when it comes to determining the rate of replacement? By decision of the Board of Directors, as it was? Oh, no! By decision of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. A man! The replacement coefficient. People's money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have time to make the report I need for IPTO. We will vote against the provision. I hope other colleagues will cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u462	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u463	Mr President, I am left with a stricter repetition, because it is determined on a date, a law which you have voted on here, making the Greek Parliament laugh at special wages, saying 'if I find it equivalent, I will not do so'. But you could have said that about what you are voting on today. 'If... I will not apply it'. The 'if', ladies and gentlemen, in the 'ura' Chakalotos it is until September, if you have not found the equivalents. Have a good trip by September! And with regard to the cutter on force majeure, catastrophes, etc., while in the previous draft law you said that this money would not go into the deficit or debt, you said today that they would go in if strangers disagree. They won't come in if the lenders come to an agreement. Simple briefing was made a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u465	And finally, - indeed last sentence, but it is worth it - you who would have done away with HNVY and you would have increased the ESS, abolish the ESS, as I have told you, and further increase ENVIA, with today's draft law. This is the "pipe" Tsakalotou. Rejoice in the "heavy" of Tsakalotus! We are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u466	The rapporteur, Mr Davakis, has the floor. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, I shall speak quickly on the issue of special wages. National Defence Minister Kammenos said a moment ago that the codes that, incidentally, were found in his previous presence in the Parliament had said that they would have been found by the end of the year by armaments programs, by sales of defence material, by ammunition, etc. These are things that are unthinkable, because legislation forbids them, but the armaments code cannot be involved with that of payroll. In any case, fresh having its last appearance, I wanted to call him - in his absence at all, but it must be mentioned, it was also Mr Vitsas before, but now I do not see him either - to mention in what codes he refers to, namely the number of codes. Because, if these are payroll codes, as we all understand it, it is opening up a bigger problem with special wages and especially with those of the Armed Forces. We therefore want the number of codes from Mr Kammenos to present them to the House, as well as if this procedure had been accepted - I had told him last time - Mr Juliarakis. For this is all, as is stated in the amendment and in the original, subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. So Mr Kammenos has to cumulatively bring us the code numbers where he will channel the money for the equivalents until the end of September and if the Treasury agrees with them. As far as the others are concerned, the way in which this money is to be found, to divest defence material, etc., we expect it to give further explanation. We're very curious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Of the special speakers Mrs. Canelle is not here and Mr. Lykoudis I do not see him for the moment. Mr Katsikis now has the floor, and then Mr Saridis. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that when measures are taken to support the financing of the country, we are always in the unpleasant position to distinguish those elements that make up the image of the measures as positive, those that are negative and by putting them in a balance, we can see the size of the economic crisis. To conclude this brief introduction, I would like to say that of course amendments come under great pressure of time and make it difficult for our parliamentary function, but it is also time for the country itself to press for the disbursement of the dose or substation that it needs. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about each amendment, because the time we have is not enough to develop to the fullest extent what we want. With regard to Amendment No 465 and specific No 27, which concerns the CSCE, I would like to say that it is positive that his return - as we have said and constituted a red line for this government - will not concern all months from January to today, only one month in June 2016, where about twelve instalments will the refund of this allowance, which is estimated at about EUR 8 per month. So I believe that it will not be the one who is obliged to return to economic difficulty in doing so, given this facility and settlement in twelve instalments. With regard to the one-off of self-employed people, and there let me say that I see the positive fact that the five-year period which will be calculated as five years of contributions paid from 2013 onwards, that is, between 2008 and 2013, is a five-year period where wages were much older, revenues were much larger than today, when the economic crisis has expanded and affected the incomes of the self-employed. In passing on to Amendment No 466 and specific number 28, as far as the energy management body, IPTO, is concerned, the change relates to the reduction of the time limits. That is, instead of November 2016, as the agreement intended to complete the sale of 20% - rather than 100%, such as some poorly, falsely and distortedly - is being speeded up for October 2016. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 467 and a special 29 in relation to the special payrolls, which have also been mentioned by the Minister of National Defence, and also by the Vice-Chairman of Parliament of the New Democracy, Mr Davakis, I have to say that the special payrolls now as a red line and the Government and the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA are a priority for us without and will respect the commitments, as they have said and expressed in this Chamber. In particular, for the codes that Mr Davakis has invoked, we are waiting for the President of the Independent Greeks to be placed in order to give these codes. It will not only concern the special salaries of the Armed Forces, but also the security bodies and the judiciary under these special wages. I should like to point out, by closing my position on this amendment, that, contrary to what Mr Davakis said, it is, of course, allowed, when the code reduces and concerns armaments, what is being saved as a difference in providing support as equivalent to special wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u470	Then why didn't the Council of State do it for 50%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u471	Can I answer you now, Mr. Davaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u473	Thank you. I keep your question and I will give you the answer later. As far as Amendment No 468 is concerned, I have to say that, as in the previous amendment, we agree with and will vote in favour of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since I am out of time, I would like to say that we will also vote on the amendment with a general number of 469 and a special number of 31, which the Minister for Finance has just submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u474	Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association, with respect for consistency, will vote against all the amendments except Amendment 456, which we have received for an extension. It is not, of course, a problem solved, but, where we have arrived, we will accept it. The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, told us that there is a precedent in at least twenty bills, exceptionally, delayed and irregular amendments. He made sure, of course, that this should not be a custom, the bad practice of this image. Shall we legislate how many more? How many more bills do we have to legislate in this way? How much do we have to legislate to say 'is that enough'? The people have already reached this point. He's already exhausted, and he's crossed his line. The respected Minister of Petropoulos speaks of reason. Free professionals must pay 65% of their revenues into contributions. Where's the logic in that? You're saying you're taking injustices. How do you say that? Practically, you simply abolish the old system, so that the new system will apply. So does Mr. Skourlet. It regulates the procedure under which RAE is intervening and believes that this is how the citizens have been guaranteed. But when the crisis started, the barrel had 120 dollars, and now it's 40. How much did the electricity price drop for the average consumer? Where did we see relief due to a fall in the price of oil? With the new system, Minister, what's going on? What is ultimately a positive effect? Who are you kidding? The discounts in consistently? How many more will be consistent with these measures, which we take and legislate in this Chamber? You're talking about signs of de-escalation. How much did the average Greek benefit or benefit? It is difficult to comment on the substance. The way we legislate leaves no doubt on any citizen. The stability we all ask will be late to come. How are we going to create a stable legal framework for tax policy, which is not being invested without it? That those who have taken it will not have to retroactively return to the CSCE, do we consider this in this Chamber a grand victory of the government? Of course we agree not to be forced to bleeding further, but that is the point of the amendment, not to lose the money? Is this SYRIZA's grand victory? The grand victory would be if he could go and take it from the pockets of those who have given it. In a desperate situation, our fellow citizens, who no longer serve their loans and fear that the strike of lawyers will end and the auctions will start throughout the country. They have nothing to hope for from the amendment that you have brought us. It is not an amendment that defends the interests of borrowers. We are legislating to satisfy the lenders in this Chamber. That's the truth. Asking for more guarantees than those who seek to get their homes doesn't change reality. They have no problem with money or legality. And they have money legality. The famous cutter is stricted. That's how the first reading we've been able to do. The truth is that, as the coordinator of Parliament's budget office said, the figures do not come out. Normally, the cutter had to be activated by today. On the one hand, they do not oblige us to activate the cutter, in the event of natural disasters or natural disasters, but, on the other, mathematics was definitely clarified. Mathematical formulas replace the Government and the Minister for Tax Policy. As far as special wages are concerned, we must be careful. We are choosing to accept the Minister's word, whose intentions we do not dispute and how we will be able to find equivalent until September. It's hard to find equivalents. Speaking of equivalents in this Chamber, we always suck a candy. We have reached a point to tell the officials of the Armed Forces and the judges how to find out what wages they receive in January 2017, September 2016. That's the truth. For the energy market one thing is certain: the negative experience of the past has not taught us what it should be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. I am afraid that the procedures envisaged to liberalise the energy market do not guarantee either the quality of energy services or the cost. Today's amendment describes a discomfortful system which it has not produced and is not going to perform. In addition, she hides in her change, and a privatization. If we thought we would regulate the energy market at night, then we are doomed to dreams. Today Mr Tsakalotos said that the first chapter of the narrative of the 'first time left' expired. That is not the case, Minister. The first chapter was closed when you turned "OH" to "OH". The second chapter was closed when you handed over the administration of the Greek banking system. The third chapter is closed when you handed over the Greeks' homes to vultures. The fourth chapter is ENPIA and its paganisation. The fifth chapter is the abolition of the CSCE. There's a lot of chapters in the story of the first time on the left. It has, frankly, many chapters and broken promises! You're losing your words! We're losing it with you, too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u476	We thank Mr Ioannis Saridis, a special speaker from the Centroon Association. We proceed to the list of speakers and as some are missing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, when do you see parliamentarians talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u478	Let me tell you. They'll talk at least two. Mr Panayotaros has asked for the floor, if you do not object, and then he will speak another one or two and we will proceed. We won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u479	So, after two speakers, the Members of Parliament are speaking. Mr President, I would like you to put me first in the hierarchy of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u480	They are fifteen speakers, but we will move on quickly. But let's move on. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing another event in the series 'we are voting and voting'. Of course, we lived here yesterday in the House, as we voted together against a scandalous provision which the majority had voted on, on which the political people could have offshore. Today we are called upon to vote or to correct, by voting on a part of the provisions of the two major multilingualisms, insurance and taxation, which we voted on last Sunday and the previous one. And this process proves how heroic the government is. It is so heroic that we would ask you, Mr Ministers, not to negotiate any more, because every time you negotiate, things get worse. Watch out, every chapter has a record. Today Mr Tsakalotos reiterated the government's account in response to the New Democracy account. However, what matters to you is that the account of each chapter disproves you the precedent. Like, in other words, September, he disproved Genaris, such as the tough negotiation of the Thessaloniki programme, so September that will come will disprove the tough negotiation that you are saying that you have now been doing, but in practice our people are living it and living it not in the theory, because since yesterday, he is also paying the additional indirect taxes. Employees and pensioners see in their withholdings a decrease in actual income due to tax reductions. The Minister, who would resign, if the tax were to fall, attempted with a fig sheet, namely by adding the children, to cover the reduction of the tax to EUR 8,600. And they see working women that they have no right to make use of the protection clause. Now the pensioners who took the ESS will see that you are bringing forward the cuts, because the Prime Minister was obviously forced, under the outcry, to make a statement not to return the cuts until the first six months and thus all will pay it together in the next period. Mr Tsakalotou' s hard negotiations on the cutter, which had described the process as a process of consultation with the lenders, is cleared up by the amendment he has tabled to us today and an agreement is reached with the lenders. The tough negotiation of Mr. Skourletis, who has uncovered our own policy that we would sell 30% of PPC with the small PPC, according to the amendment he has brought us, will be sold at 50% of PPC, as it has a timetable, which says how PPC will limit 50% of production and 50% of customers. I mean, we don't get the double. Our only reaches us and we are spared, Minister. These are your accomplishments. Of course, we who have voted against the provisions on red loans cannot vote on any of these facilities that you are doing today in the infamous funds, that is, what you call corpses. It is also natural that another mockery is taking place at the expense of the uniforms, for which we would find various measures, we would sell some old equipment, we would make some other cuts, so that the special wage freeze would not take place. And the government is now forced to bring us regulation, which says that we will go to changes which will be of a lasting nature. So, a permanent cutter, both in the Ministry of Defence and in the Ministry of Public Order. And you, Minister, represented by Mr. Katrugalo, fooled the free professionals that you would give them a single. You're further reducing it by the setting you've brought. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. You will have to explain to us, Mr Petropoulou and Mr Ministers of the Left's reasoning, what harms you by the Management Board of the Equatorial Officials' Fund, which can no longer recommend the replacement rate and give this authority to decide. A male authority, the president, that is. Are these left-wing visions? With these generations and generations of fighters, who defended these ideas, to come here today to curse them in this way? The only amendment we shall be voting on, Mr President, is that which refers to the extension of the FODs. Let me just say a word, because the Tower has stinked, and there's an effort there from local government to find a solution. We even welcome this small extension. In the rest, we shall vote with courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Panos Kammenos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, I speak as President of the Independent Greeks, to formulate our positions on special wages, not on the Ministry of National Defence, which I have explained. And because I have heard Mr Davakis object, I really want to say that I do not understand the anxiety of the New Democracy and the change of their position. At one time, New Democracy denounced Yannos Papantoniou of the NH90 Convention, for the three hundred million SWAPs, which conceal misasa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u484	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u485	I understand that PASOK is in pain. Instead of defending himself and its governments, I see New Democracy defending it. Well, you know, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u486	Can you not say the word PASOK in your vocabulary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u487	I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u488	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u489	I'll tell you why, Mr. Loverdos. I've been here since 1993. In 1993, when I was talking about Chochazopoulou and the TOR - M1...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u490	We sent them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u491	You said it was a monument of morality. When we were talking about submarines, you screamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Koutsoukos from behind, as a Member of Parliament, then accepted and argued that the numbers of bills taken by the media were numbers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u493	No, sir! Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u494	You went out and signed the honesty of Papantoniou, Tsochazopoulou, and of those who have already been imprisoned, all the general secretaries of the Ministry of National Defence. You were convicted and once entered, as Andrew said, in the time of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u495	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u496	You accept that you entered the timeline of history, don't you? Anyway. Those who resisted the first moment were outside PASOK. And I would like to pay tribute to George Panayotakopoulos, who left life and who has always resisted such logic, because there were honest people. As there were honest people, like Dimitris Vunatsos, like Kostas Bandouvas, like Panagiotis Sguridis, patriotic PASOK, who never colluded with such policies, which were particularly followed by the Shiite government. But the New Democracy, which denounced them at the time, is beginning to wonder how we will get from the 6900 codes of this kind, in order to get them to the special payrolls, so that the decision does not further reduce the wages of the soldiers. I'm telling you, we'll do it, as you've done on several occasions, code transfers within the Ministry of National Defence. Of course, there are other savers of ruffles. Kalamata is not guarded by Omer Bryoni to have troops to satisfy Mr. Samara's office. We do not need to pay hundreds of thousands of euros to have open units, all they serve are local interests. And, of course, there are other codes for the 6900. There are the codes of those who will not disburse money, but who will take back the stolen companies that have been convicted in Germany and accept that they have bribed Greece politicians and members of the committees. And today, in order to be able to participate in the competitions, they come and say: 'We want to give back the stolen ones'. And you know there are such companies. Stop being the defender of PASOK. Finally! There are also people within this party who have been outside politics and have not been reconciled, such as Spiliotopoulos. There are also people who have not kneeled and who have not accepted Samara's course to turn a New Democracy party into a defense attorney for PASOK and Mr Venizelos. We shall then go to the other ministries, because this is of course also about the judges, it concerns both the police and the ports, and it also concerns firefighters. There are ways of saving money. I have sat in this position as President of the Independent Greeks to reiterate proposals that we have made and have not proposed. We have adopted proposals from the associations themselves, the associations of judges and prosecutors. First proposal, with regard to judges: Decriminalisation of minor offences, such as breaches of the Road Traffic, Health and Other Infringements of Special Criminal Law and their replacement with administrative fines. Why at the moment should we have courts, which have been merged with such decisions, not to have a quicker award of criminal justice and significant revenue for the public and to condemn a traffic violation with three months in prison that never pays for it. Therefore, instead of three months in prison, it should be replaced with an administrative fine, which would be proportionate to the imposition of the penalty. Five euros a day is the imprisonment, in addition to the incursions. How many hundreds of years of prison fall only every day from the Court of First Instance. This money can enter a special account and meet the needs for the implementation of the Council of State's decision on judges. In all offences of competence of a single court, only a penalty of money should be imposed and not imprisonment. We'll have decongested prisons, increased public revenues. And of course, we can involve in this kind of crimes involving both the Greek Police and the Port Authority, corresponding revenues for the staff of the Greek Police and the Port Body. We can also strengthen the coffers of lawyers, who too have enormous damage, or suffer such initiatives. In crimes of tax evasion over 200,000 euros and in crimes of corruption, neither a conversion nor a suspension of penalty for anyone is allowed. We've seen some people come and pay. We saw some who, as soon as the sentence fell, came and found all five hundred grand and three and four million. The government's surpluses will pay their debts and radically hit the phenomenon of tax evasion and corruption. The fourth proposal concerns the Ministry of Civil Protection. Take care to make available the necessary police forces to carry out long-term irresponsible judicial decisions. With this money, and the public funds will be strengthened and a percentage of them can go to the funds of the Ministry of Civil Protection and, of course, the administration of justice and the collection of public revenue will be made more effective. Such measures can be taken in all ministries. There are enormous possibilities until September for this to be institutionalised, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, we will present them much earlier, and we are open to dialogue and proposals, so that we can ensure that these people of the so-called special wages, who have suffered the greatest reduction in wages and pensions, can finally breathe. This is the choice of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. It is the Prime Minister's commitment, and we will keep it. We have given a huge battle, and the battle is not just about the policy being pursued, but also about those interests, which have found the easy solution, not to pay the armaments companies, not to pay the big-workers, not to pay those who have evaded and always pay the person who cannot complain whether he is a military officer or a police officer, whether he is a firefighter or a portman. That's the end of this story. They have paid enough and we are obliged to apply the decisions of the Supreme Constitutional Court without further burdening the Greek people from the budgets of the Ministries. We'll prove we can and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u498	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u499	Mr Davakis, Mr Koutsoukos has asked for the floor on staff and you will then be given the floor. We're listening, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u500	For the economy of time, Mr President, I am not exhausting the minute I would have substantiated, because I am asking for the floor on staff. It's clear. So I'm going straight to the point. Mr Kammens, the Minister of National Defence of the Government, has too much courage, because he has given up on me the man who has supported and voted in favour of the provision that launders out politicians with offshore and does not tell us about whom he has done so. With regard to the complaint he made, I said or argued that the accounts of Mr Tsohatzopoulos were numbered, it has nothing to do with my face, nor did I know that. But the Greek people must also know that if Mr Tsohatzopoulos is in prison, this is about the decisions that we made and the laws that we voted on, which Mr Kammens has not voted on. Then I remind you that it belonged to the New Democracy. It's an accident that only Mr. Chohatzopoulos is in prison. The others have been released.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u501	Good, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u502	He referred to the name of a party fighter who we're about to bury today. I think he did it deliberately. I do not think it was to honour him, because Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Panayotakopoulos, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. But we as a party are proud of these fighters, because we have driven out the exotics and the jury. And we are proud of George, who is here today, both for Gennamata and Melina, and for Moralis and for thousands of other fighters who have fought in Parliament, for self-government, for trade unions everywhere. We're proud of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u504	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u505	Minister, don't do it Ping-Pong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u506	I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u507	You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u508	Soon Mr. Chohatzopoulos will come out and tell us that he has passed laws on his custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u509	We voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u510	Listen to something. You mentioned names that will feed at the moment when they think that PASOK has become applause from Voridis and Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u511	Thank you. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u512	The lady I had at the ONNED, meanwhile!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u513	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u514	We're listening to Mr. Davaki. Please, everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u515	The Minister of National Defence referred to my face. When I place myself, I ask that you table the relevant codes on the article you will shortly be voting on, Mr Minister, which speaks of 'interventions of equivalent net expenditure savings of a permanent nature', i.e. payroll codes. Equivalents must be of a lasting nature, as everyone co-operates. You have Mr. Chakaloto, who can confirm that. I put three simple questions: who are these codes, the numbers, after we have found them and whether they are about wage cuts, since it says 'permanent nature'? Also, if you have the agreement of the Ministry of Finance. I do not question your intentions, but if things are as simple as you say, you could do the same from various codes, armaments, ammunition and all that you say about the issue of the performance of the other 50% by the Council of State, instead of sending letters, whose incentive I do not question the Minister of Finance to be accepted. So you are "emptied" by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u516	I 'emptied' him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u517	Yes, Minister, that's the way it is. "empty of him" in the sense that he may want, but you do not leave him. So if I want to, but they won't let me, I'm not saying what I'm saying in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u518	All right, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u519	That's the reality. Otherwise, I would ask you now to submit to the House the specific codes, which as a 'permanent character and equivalent savings' you will bring until the end of September as compensation, so that we do not mock with the logic of 'weight hay', the old cavalry of the cavalry, the Greek soldiers, the active and retired executives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u520	Mr Kammenos has the floor and this conciliation is concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u521	Ask Mr. Chakaloto!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u522	Listen to this government, no one is 'empty'. It reminds me of some scandalous magazines that say that this couple divorces, etc. We don't break up! We'll go together by the end. The hard times have passed, now come the easy ones, the good days are coming. You didn't manage to break up with us where things were difficult. Things have now come to an end, thanks to the efforts of this government, which the Greek people can see from this policy which we have conducted for better days. Well, Mr. Davakis, I assure you that with Mr. Tsakalotos we are in full consultation and that we have no conflict. Nor did this government ever do what they did before, throwing one another and deceiving the Greek people. The Ministry of Finance has made it clear in this agreement that there should be reductions from annual budgets for 2017 and 2018, which you mention, with fixed figures. It does not say anywhere the word'reduction of wages'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u523	It says 'permanent character'. That's payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u524	It's not a payroll. Can I give you one example: closing three camps, which were for only reasons of show and of service for ruffles, is not a reduction in costs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u525	Who are you gonna close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u526	But don't engage in dialogue like that, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u527	When the time comes, you'll see them by code. In 2017 and 2018, there are intermittent armaments obligations from the past - in fact, they do not go until 2018, but until 2022 - concerning specific programmes, in which there is corruption. They've been convicted of bribes. This money will not be taken in 2017 either by the companies in 2018 or in 2019 or 2020. You are aware, then, that from old programmes we have the possibility of several reductions in the codes of 6900 for supplies. The third point we have raised was the reductions in costs, but also in revenues, which will come and relate to the exploitation of property worth 34 million euros of the Ministry of National Defence. It was money from the Greek people and the Armed Forces who were in immobility. They were used by politicians to make a ruse, to "given a mayor of a camp" to "take a vote in elections". What are we talking about? That this property of the Ministry of National Defence will not be sold, but will be rented for many years, provided that there are investments, we will receive 5% on the objective value every year for ninety years - permanently, revenue - and this will be done by a competitive process open to the Internet, where there will be all the conditions, so that it cannot be called into question by anyone. Finally, I would like to say that we do not want defence to be confronted. Come with us to the Ministry, explain the codes, listen to your views, and finally get to the point, the defence budgets to vote on them the whole House of Greeks, because this is not about one or two parties. It is about the Greek people and their national defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u528	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u529	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u530	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u531	I was honored by the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos to refer to my face in a disgraceful, obviously, way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u532	I said that 'the PASOK applauds him'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u533	I want to say this to you, Minister: have you read anything about what SYRIZA said about you? Do you know what Mr. Papadimoulis called you? There is still a posted tweet on the Internet, which says that "only paranoids could ever say that SYRIZA would be working with a hun-fascist like Kammen". And you sit in the same cabinets as they do. You know, Minister of National Defence, who you are both of tradition and national conscience, that you support a government that a member of her, Mr. Philis wants to forbid children from learning ancient Greek and said that it is only natural to learn ancient Greek? Do you know that at all? Or are you going to keep telling us about Chohatzopoulos? You said it about Chohatzopoulos. Chohazopoulou entered prison. For our children, who will never learn Greek with this government, have you ever said anything? Did you accept Mr. Liako, who says that we are not Greek, you, Kammenos, the patriot, as chairman of the Committee on National Dialogue for Education and you have, Minister, the faces to make suggestions for us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Georgiadis, is that personal? Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u535	Don't give us any hints. You don't have the face!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u536	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u537	Minister, don't do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u538	I can't answer that. I need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u539	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u540	Mr. Papadimoulis probably messed us both up and did the tweet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u541	Oh, right? It's confusing! Well, he wrote it for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u542	Listen, with regard to the issues that we have to deal with with with the conflicts that we have with the co-chairing party - and we have different views on many issues - you should know that we are also discussing them and, where there are objections, we are saying them clearly and we are voting in favour or we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u543	And then you support it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u544	So, on the issues of the ancient Greeks, we expressed our opinion and when it comes to voting, you will see it. As far as religious issues are concerned, we have our own views and SYRIZA has his own views. We're not the same party. We are two different parties, which we decided to go together in an attempt to change our country. One respects each other's views and respects them absolutely and everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u545	And we with PASOK the same then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u546	Listen, I don't have Mr. Venizelo to defend.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u547	Let us not go too far, Minister. We're late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u548	To know, then, that while remaining in the government does not mean that one is fully respecting each other’s views. We respect them and listen and choose them together. When the time comes to decide, we are even codecision, we find it. We'll ruin your soup! We'll keep track of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u549	You, Minister, are you going with your child to sign Mr. Friend's Pact?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u550	We proceed with Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr President. It would be nice, this workshop, the sympathetic one, which has been piercing for a long time and making noise in the House, not to do so. They all know that the House has been turned into a yapi for a long time. Sandworm and broken is all. We must also welcome the decision by the German Parliament, which recognised the Armenian genocide, and we wish to do the same and, of course, various ministers will finally know about the Pontius genocide, which even refuses it now, and so on. At the request of your 'pimps' and not our own, as you were saying until you were colluded, you have adapted to simple sanctions for contracts that are very serious, very important amendments, which are an extension of the narcotic polynomial plan that you voted on a few days ago. Because, in fact, you had it on hand, you have now brought the so-called "improvements", in order to get your long-lived dose, once again. Of course, we would like the Minister for Finance to tell us sometime, or someone else of the seven, eight or ten billion euros, which is to take the dose, how much will be left in our homeland for the well-being of growth, which you so much publish, after the measures that you have voted on. Before Easter, you said - Mr Kammenos is here - that after Lambrey we are coming out of the memoranda. The Lambrey has passed, and the three days of the Holy Spirit will come, and the Fifteenth August will be here, and from the memorials we will not have come out. We also agree with what Mr Kammenos said about the New Democracy. He said, "Why are you fighting so much?" and that you understand all these measures that are coming. The problem is that you too are doing exactly the same, so we should understand the other Greeks, who cannot understand any of what is happening within and outside Parliament. Let us look at the amendments which each individual could be a bill. With Amendment No 466 and a special number of 28, the time required for PPC to be sold out from five to four months is reduced from five to four months. That's what this is about. Now, if 20%, 30%, 40% or 50% will be sold out, it leaves us insanely indifferent, because we are staying firm in our position that PPC and other services of general interest should never be privatised, but should be under strong state control because it is of national importance and because the Greek people have given trillions of euros for PPC's infrastructure. Once the Simitis started with OTE, part - and eventually became degraded, without anyone ever realizing anything at all. As far as Amendment No 467 is concerned and Amendment No 29 is concerned, we are leaving Article 1 and we are moving towards the end. Article 2 concerns the Egnatia Street and concerns tolls. But, well, half of you comrades were registered as "I don't pay" and supposedly didn't pay. But now that you're here, and you're not paying, but your voters and all the others who pay, they pay the fines. They even pay with the amendments made by Minister Vorides when he was Minister, who has done everything in good faith with regard to the major-workers, one, namely Bombola, who has been managed by all the motorways. With regard to Amendment No 465 and number 27, family allowances are abolished and a gradual abolition of the CSR is introduced, without taking into account the income criteria. Congratulations on everything you said until January 2015! You consider the Greek people to be a bolt. You'll see very soon if it's a leash or not. As far as Amendment No 469 is concerned, and number 31 on the sale of real estate by EOT to TEAD, we applaud that! We're talking about transferring all real estate with procedures as they have to be done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With regard to Amendment No 467 and specific number 29, I will come back to the end because there are other amendments. The amendment of a general number 468 and a special number 30 relates to an increase in HISPIAN in some companies. But you said that the EVH would be abolished. You have become laughing at all television broadcasts, which are humorous and fun content. You have overrun both the previous and the previous ones and those who will probably come in the future. As far as Article 2 is concerned, he comes to the most unfavourable. Congratulations here on the 'first time left' with a little 'no one knows what'! In Article 2(2), we see an agreement with the institutions rather than consultation. We're talking about terrible, incredible things here. In other words, it provides that according to the recently adopted n. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Oh, no! That's not it. Now, we have to conclude an agreement! Natural disasters or force majeure are, as the Chief of Golden Dawn said during a draft law debate, the case of war with another state. We should ask and sign an agreement with our lenders if we should deal with the Turks, the Albanians, the Bulgarians and anyone else who wants to attack our country. Congratulations to you! Article 3 concerns the immunity of the members of the ERM. While some of your MPs once climbed up here on the stadiums and beaten and accused others of being pitiful, trisathlon, unacceptable and traitors, now you are doing exactly the same in a much more "large" fund, which includes everything, literally. For special payrolls, there has been a lot of discussion here. Mr. Kammenos will be here. He told us some things, some camps will shut them down because they're rouspheutics. We, Mr Samaras, hate him and everyone knows it, but the Kalamata camp is one of the oldest and most historic ones and should be a training centre and remain, as in Tripoli, as in Corinth, which closed and instead of training young Greek citizens to become soldiers, has become a centre for illegal immigrants. These three camps were then the iron division, which was destroying the enemies of our country throughout the Balkans. And now, we're talking about micro-policy, about the different camps. But, really, these codes will be closed, you'll save three dimes from there, four dimes from here, one, two, three years at most, then what happens? You're talking about the equipment programs. Good. You will also save five euros for the time being, possibly drachmas very briefly - and perhaps it will also be the salvation of this country, as will be done in other countries in Europe - and what will be done to save them with the armaments programmes? Mr. Kammenos knows very well that whole degrees do not fly because there are no spare parts, aircraft do not fly because there are no spare parts. There is nothing in the Greek army and we have very little of the potential we could have been able to use. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u552	I've already given you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u553	All right, I'd like one more minute to report one more amendment and I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u554	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u555	There are too many of the amendments that we cannot just mention. Of course, we are voting against Parliament's amendment because it is too late and shows your curiosity. You could have put this amendment in a bill. We shall now go to Amendment No 467/29, Article 1, which is about the banks and everything that you have said. So I'll tell you two things quickly. What this amendment says: this is a unilaterally harmful change in the terms of the loan contracts for which the borrower's partnership is required, as good trading practices and the law, the Civil Code, which you have written in your old shoes, because as employees of the bankers you all now sign up for, you let them do whatever they want. The European Central Bank lends at a specific small interest rate of 0.75% and with ministerial council operations the maximum interest rate for private sector landfills is set. Judicial extra-banking is called and is approximately 5.25%. Anything above that is a loan carving product. And the seemingly thoughtful truth, like the bank cartels say that we have all accepted them, we have entered into a loan, the terms and all of these and other provisions, and the fine letter, is a lie. Because there is the technocratic truth from a number of judicial decisions. They are more than two thousand and many are finals from both the Areo Ice and they come from the Urban Code. First, the contracts suffer from total nullity due to loan-sharing. Secondly, in order to make auctions and seizures - to listen to Greek citizens - the requirements should be fully legal, clear and unambiguous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u556	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u557	I'm done. And thirdly, from the Civil Code, the victim is entitled to claim financial compensation for moral harm or other harm. We are voting against all the amendments and the ministerial and parliamentary amendments, as we have voted against sanctions. And we will continue to fight for Greek's rightfulness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u558	Mr. Ioannis Theocrat, speaker from SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, you have the floor for five minutes strictly, Mr. The Guardian.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u559	Thank you, Mr President. I have taken the floor to make it clear, because it is a lot of disaster for red loans. And nowadays, the day before yesterday, they said the auctions were breaking. Nor is it true, like what the previous speaker has said, which I shall explain immediately. We said that as of 1 June the auctions are breaking down and let people be afraid and what happens if the first home is protected again from the beginning. Destructive, risky, the ones they're full of. Nevertheless, as the Minister said, the sun will rise again, dawn tomorrow and the houses, the first residence of the Greeks will continue to be protected. What changed since June 1st? It has changed the way of appraising the seized property that may be the second, third, and thirteenth, it can be a business real estate, it can be private against a private person. That changed the way of appreciating. And instead of the objective value, it's trade now. It's something that was agreed last summer. This has two sides, such as several issues. They say it's negative, because they're gonna lose their real estate. It is, however, very positive for those who have joined and for those who will join the Katseli Act, because they, with a view to commercial value, will pay a lower dose, which is the real value of the property. That's what we need to think about. That is to say, seeing the positive ones as well. There are some details that are very important to the many people and yet in the channels and in the public debate we are destroying and jeopardizing, so people are losing their sleep. In addition to the collector companies that drive them crazy on the phones, they lose him from the public debate that is taking place. So it was one thing that I wanted to make it clear as to whether the auctions were'resolved'. They did not "release". As long as it's true, it's still true. What is changing is a technical issue: how to estimate the seized property, which is not the first residence, and which for those who entered the Katselis law has a positive sign, because they will ultimately pay a lower dose. Thus, since the provisions that come now and the tail of the assessment are still without prejudice to the Katseli Act, the unscrupulous borrower continues to have the right and to be part of this law. Finally, and with all that is being heard, I would like to make it clear that I am making two - three categories of what is true of the first residence, because we are once again talking about misinformation. Until the resolution of No.4346/2015, in November 2015, amending the "Katelis Law" had taken place about the hundreds of fifty thousand fellow citizens. The protection of the first residence applies to them. They protected her. It's over. We have succeeded in the negotiations for them not to change, that is to say, the criteria are applied in the way they were integrated. Let's go down. Criteria were laid down by Law No.4346/2015. I repeat them to be clear: The income criteria are roughly 35,000 euros with two children and an objective value test for the house of EUR 260,000 real estate. These things from there are not protected from 1-1-2016, indeed. This is a small retreat. I say little because even these cases, that is, with great incomes and very great objective value, had the margin of two months, November and December 2015, to enter the law of Katseli and protect themselves. The issue that exists and does not exist now, there is from the end of 2014, concerns those who have trade status, the business world. Who have trade status? It is a legal concept, it has been shaped by case law, it is a legal concept and not a tax. For them, there is a question, and for them we will deal with the amendment or more precisely with the replacement of the Law Trees, which will take place next month. Two positive aspects of the Katseli Act, currently in force: Firstly, our economically weak fellow citizens have the right, after joining the Katselis law, to have a grant from the state of the dose they give to protect their residence. That's not true. And we did so under these conditions of supervision and bankruptcy. We show the government's will to protect from the latitude, the koruna of the state budget, the extremely weak strata. Second positive that we have achieved in the law Katseli by Law No.4336/2015, is that debts should also be included in DWO, insurance funds, OTA and CECO. This is very important, because our fellow citizens had their debts regulated to the banks and owed more to the insurance funds, so it would not get the burden off them. I am now talking about the funds, Mr President, and I will not be delayed. How should borrowers think about funds if we are going to sell the ordinary world's loans, because I believe that the funds will only be interested in large business or business loans in general. Informing borrowers should not worry at all, because as they gave their dose to the Greek banks, they will still simply give it to another body. And the'reds', those who are regulated and likely to lose the regulation, should know - and I therefore disagree with the previous speaker - that the contract they have signed is the case. This is what the multi-project and today's amendments say, Greek law, namely the Katseli Law and general clauses of the Civil Code say: unforgettable change of circumstances, good faith, commercial customs and all that has shaped a favourable case law in recent years in favour of borrowers. That is what I think has had to be cleared up, Mr President. The evaluation's off. The country is moving on, without the old political system, which must not allow it to relive with the same pathogens to bring the same harm to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u560	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Theocrat. Next, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u561	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Chakalote, you know the nerve has to have some limits. You said before, in your speech, that the New Democracy has no record. The New Democracy doesn't have a account because of your intermittent successes. As my beloved State Secretary is present with the Prime Minister, I read you a tweet of Mr. Quick sitting side by side: "If TIADE closes the regional airports with troika and German plans, they will leave where they came swimming."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u562	You signed them! You!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u563	Don't interrupt me. Mr President, keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u564	Yeah, sure. Obviously, we're not interrupting. Then if you'd like, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u565	After we signed them, Mr. Quick said they'd be thrown away by swimming. So since they said they'd be thrown away by swimming, Mr. Chakalote, you come and sign not only the airports...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u566	You signed them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u567	...but the superstition we hadn't signed, Mr. Quick, with the administration of foreigners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u568	Two hundred and fifty two votes got this deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u569	Mr President, hold the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u570	Minister, this is not the case. It can't be done. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u571	Don't get upset about pointing out your contradictions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u572	Not at all. I would remind you that you are in the wrong party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u573	Not like that. There's no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u574	I have the floor now. You'll restrain yourself. You've become a fool. He's got the right to a policy, like you. But please restrain yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u575	I'm holding up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u576	Well, I'll be back, Mr. President. I repeat, Mr Chakalote, you represent a party which has been telling us for five years that it will ban the troika, that it will abolish the memorandum, that it will delete the debt. Do you come and do what you do and do what New Democracy doesn't have a account? Are you all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u577	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u578	You forgot about the September elections. You're messing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u579	Let's go to that now. You, as Minister of Government, said two weeks ago that last Tuesday at the Eurogroup we would take a decision of historic importance for Greece's debt and you returned to Greece with a decision saying that in 2018 'if it is necesssary', if necessary, they will take steps. I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u580	Is that what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u581	Mr. Champagne, listen. Mr. Champagne, if he said anything else...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u582	The law of probability once tell the truth. Once!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u583	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u584	Please don't interrupt. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u585	If he had said anything else, I would inform you that the International Monetary Fund would have agreed to stay in the programme. The International Monetary Fund has not yet accepted to enter the programme because it considers the decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u586	Didn't someone translate it into giving you the translation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u587	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u588	Minister, this is not the case!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u589	For God's sake! The ministers talk all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u590	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u591	The Member of the New Democracy cannot speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u592	You're the one who's always interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u593	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u594	Please, Mr. Ministers, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u595	Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u596	But that is not the case. Mr. Georgiadis, continue. They'll all calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u597	There are two things going on, so we can get together sometime. Or the decision on the debt they have taken is of historic importance and therefore the International Monetary Fund which asked for it should at some point say 'what a fine decision I am going to take' or the decision they took is not enough to create the appropriate conditions for the International Monetary Fund to stay and thus consider it a little. Here we have the second case, because so far the International Monetary Fund has refused to enter the programme, because it believes that no serious debt debates have been taken, and all that has been taken is a general commitment by the partners that in 2018 they will take debt measures. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, have you voted for the excess to get the general principle that if they consider it necessary in 2018, will they take action on the debt? So, Mr Chakalote, please, very much - you have made jokes before your speech - to be serious. Thirdly, you represent a party that the acting Minister of Defense, my good friend Mr. Kammenos, campaigned for election, saying "we will not leave the crows..." - the crows are funds, the crows now became sparrows, the crows now became pigeons - "with my body I will stop the crows from getting the loans of the Greeks," said Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u598	You're talking about Papastaurus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u599	And now, smiling, you vote - hear how nice your next side said - 'for loans', he says, 'have the guarantee of the state' - he wanted to say 'Greek State' but it doesn't matter - 'for loans which have the guarantee of the Greek State, we do and they are liberalised'. And they're liberalized! Are you yelling liberal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u600	You ask yourself questions, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u601	And are you voting, as Mr Tsakalotos said, that these loans are being liberalised and you are celebrating it already? You were not telling us, Minister of Defense, that you would like to liberalise the loans to get the ex-collars! Where do I want to end up? When you represent two parties that have told this size the lies, you come and you rule and do what you do, you must be modest. And I close with the last example we heard today, Mr President. The Undersecretary of Infrastructure comes and tells us what? "The government wanted to do something else with tolls, but unfortunately these bad institutions, these bad people do not understand our intelligent political plan. And we, in order not to create a problem in evaluation, legislate what these bad people tell us. But when we can, we'll change them." You know, Minister of Defence, I do not want to remind you of the phrase 'four', you have said so many times that I leave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u602	Samaras says it about Nikolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u603	You keep saying that. It's a claim by Mr. Nicholopoulou that Samaras called it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u604	Go ahead, finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u605	Do you want me to read to you what Mr Nicholas now says about you? So, let go, because if I read what Mr. Nicholas says about you and if we accept what Mr. Nikolaopoulos says...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u606	Respect that Mr. Nikolaopoulos has a serious issue with his child.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u607	I have nothing with Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u608	Minister, let Mr. Georgiadis complete his thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u609	If what he says is true...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u610	Respect some human things. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u611	Minister, let Mr. Georgiadis finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u612	If what Mr. Nikolaopoulos says is true, basically what he says about you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u613	It is disgraceful that you refer to Mr. Nicholas, who is going through an adventure with his child. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u614	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u615	As long as he cuts me off, I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u616	I've given you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u617	So let's go to the example now. Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Quick - I do not remember for you, Mr. Chakalote, you may have - come out and said to the Greek people, Mr. President: "They have made us like drug addicts. We expect to take the next dose and no longer with this dose!' And now Mrs Chrysovelloni comes from the ANELs and tells us 'we are legislated to get the dose and not to cause a problem in evaluation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u618	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u619	So when you have said this kind of nonsense for five years and now that you are a government you are forced to do just the opposite, to be a little modest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u620	Good. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u621	And of course, Mr President, the New Democracy and any of its executives have said that the evaluation will not be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u622	You didn't want to close!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u623	I would ask Mr Tsakalotos to give me his e-mail to send him 50 interviews - because as I speak a little bit in the media - where I said the whole last time that the evaluation will be closed, because they will give it all up and why their MPs will vote for it all so that they do not lose their chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u624	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u625	So the New Democracy never said the evaluation would be closed. Mr Tsakalotou's argument is as usual from his mind. On the contrary, the New Democracy rightly predicted that they would give it all to the Troika, because in front of their chair they have neither ideology nor principles nor anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u626	All right, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u627	Mr President, please speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u628	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u629	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u630	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u631	Mr President, if every Minister raises a matter after every Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u632	Mr. Brutsi, let me run the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u633	Keep up the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u634	Once!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u635	No, I'm a parliamentary representative. You are Minister, you speak ten times and you intervene in Members' speeches. Who are you? You're the President of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u636	Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u637	I'm your Vice President! Respect your Vice President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u638	Let me run the procedure. Obviously, the ministers will not intervene in every speech. On the issues discussed earlier, Mr Tsakalotos is given the right to a minute and one minute to Mr Quick and Mrs Chrysosvelloni.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u639	What's that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u640	We are not talking about an overall answer. For a minute, we shall proceed to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u641	Be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u642	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u643	Mr President, I am not going to answer Mr Georgiadis. I just want to make something clear to the Greek people about an important inaccuracy he has said. I think he best confirmed that the New Democracy does not have an account because he did not tell us anything about the New Democracy at all. He said that New Democracy doesn't have an account because he said that and that. I'm not going to go on with this. However, I would like to say what was decided in the Eurogroup. Tomsen said so then, since you were wondering what the IMF decided. It did not decide, Mr Georgiadis, and colleagues, that Eurogroup will take action if necessary, as you said. Let me send you a English translation because English wouldn't understand it, to say such inaccuracy. The decision says...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u644	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u645	But I want to understand what your difficulty is to understand. Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u646	Get it back. You can't insult me that I don't understand English.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u647	Please! If possible, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u648	I take it back, because it's so clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u649	See, what are you doing, Mr. President? Will you give the entire government the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u650	Mr. Brutsis, I asked you once in your life to be serious. Can't you once be serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u651	Are you talking to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u652	Yes, to you. So I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u653	I'll see you in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u654	What expressions are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u655	The Eurogroup's decision says that we will take all the measures and explain what these measures are, not if necessary, so that Greece's cash needs are below 15% and then below 20%. That's far from what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u656	Are you happy with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u657	Don't answer. We don't have a dialogue. Say your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u658	You said a great inaccuracy. The Greek people must know what we decided. You can say it was enough. I might say we'll see. But should we see what it says first? What he says, Mr Georgiadis, is that all these measures will be taken so that the loan needs of the Greek economy are 15% for the next few years and 20%. One final clarification because you interrupted me. Now the IMF is coming and it doesn't say what you said. Tomsen said clearly: I am pleased with this, but I think that other measures need to be taken, either those tools that are within the gamma to use them more or that there are more tools. I shall look into this, and I shall discuss this with the European institutions. So the real truth, Mr Georgiadis, is that we took what we took, at most, to get more than that if the ESM convinces the IMF that they may take other measures. So you are not entitled to say that it has nothing to do with our decision by Eurogroup in November 2012, which actually said 'if needed'. We have now defined what 'if necessary' means in an objective way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u659	Good, Minister. Mr. Quick, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u660	I do not have much to say, Mr President of Parliament, because when I wrote what Mr Georgiadis says, it was still the subject under negotiation by the Government of the Samara - Venizelos. We finally got a ready-to-date agreement that, as you know, we joined the summer agreement. It took two hundred and fifty two votes this summer. It wasn't random. He likes to play with Mr. Georgiadis' tweets. I wonder when it's already working. I symptomically hit through the twitters "Adonis Georgiadis vs. the South and Samaras" and started an endless download of what he said - and he's here on YouTube - against the South, against Samaras. Do you know what I'm wondering about, Mr. President? I have, you know, from Grandpa Karamanlis rooted policies. Would Constantine Karamanlis ever tolerate such a Vice President? It's done, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u661	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u662	Mr. Georgiadis, let me remind you of this. In the 2014 CYPD - you may have read it, may not - they predicted analogue tolls. What I said in my position was that we will immediately rush to the installation of analogue tolls. In any case, I think it is a shame on your part to speak when, before the elections, you have introduced eleven tolls in Egnatia, in order for them to be made from public money to end up in private. Well, a little shredded, then. Don't talk any better, because as long as you're out there!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u663	Mr President, on personal grounds, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u664	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the Elementary School of Native Chios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, to proceed with the process. Here, you have the floor for five minutes, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u665	Not five minutes. As long as Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no. It's five minutes out! I can read the relevant verse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u667	With the elasticity that the previous ones had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u668	With flexibility, of course. As much as the others have spoken. It's exactly the same elasticity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u669	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just before the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakalotos, called me for seriousness. I look at him and tell him to be much more careful when he comes to the Opposition and particularly to the New Democracy, because what he has said and what he has done and what the Greek people are experiencing today. Mr. Tsakalotus, don't forget that you were Mr. Varoufakis' right hand. Together you took the negative decisions for Greece, together you dropped the white towel in the negotiation, handed everything over, without actually negotiating anything. Everything about the chair. You are the Minister, as Mr Stournaras said, and Mr Varoufakis' companion, who in the first half of the year put EUR 86 billion of money to the Greek people on loans. You are the Minister, along with Varoufakis, of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the EUR 21 billion reduction in the country's national wealth. You are the Minister who, due to the delay in the evaluation - which the New Democracy has been urging you to close - has brought EUR 1.5 billion of new measures to the Greek people, due to the delay. And you're the Minister who raised the debt issue with all of SYRIZA, which is basically a hole in the water. The Greek people pay measures unresponsively, 24% VAT. The Minister deceived from your left, Mr. Kammenos, the islanders, and went to Syros as well and spoke of crime and unconstitutionality and put and abolished the benefit that Constantine Karamanlis had brought and supported all the governments and the Troika and we never gave it, as did the villages under two thousand, Mr. Petropole, Deputy Minister of Labour. And you delivered it all. All but! You didn't make the slightest deal. And I'm actually going into it. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you know what brings you to vote today? Complementary measures. I address the Greek people. And unfortunately, we are confirmed. I am sorry to say, because we in the New Democracy have the national duty and debt above the party. The Members of the New Democracy do not hesitate many times - even when it was government - to react, to say no. You 153 yes to everything, without appraising something. And I'm explaining. Today, in fact, within twenty-one days it brings the Ministry of Labour new provisions on insurance: Elimination of the CSR in another way - it is now finalized - a reduction of one-off for the self-employed. There is one more thing about social resources. Do something, at least, at the SYRIZA party, download the posts you used to post and expose. I have here a dilemma, Mr. Petropoule, of SYRIZA, with what he said about social resources when it was abolishing them, which I thought consciously and ideologically that social resources harm the system. And you came here, Mr. Katrugalos from the Constitution, the whole system of SYRIZA, and he said about the twenty-four sources of funding for the insurance. And today I have heard you say proudly that you are abolishing social security resources, rationalizing the system, and you are going to go ahead with it. A little serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u670	Mr President, may I have the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u671	I'm on my way. I heard just before the Minister for Development spoke about IPTO, and he said that very successfully matters are coming and being safeguarded. Who says that? The Minister, who is now pre-electionally and now, as Minister, said one night that he ensures the minimum wage for the workers, that the third pension will be granted, that heating oil is absolutely guaranteed. This all collapsed. In fact, the amendment that is now coming for IPTO will in fact, in a short time, prove to be a mistake once again, that it once again deceives the Greek people and the workers. For red loans, isn't there a little patronage, Mr. Chakaloto? A little friendly, a little bit of a red line somewhere? Even the EUR 4.5 million for equity funds, which so far had to be put into a Greek banking system, go and pave the way to put them in banks abroad? Even this? Didn't you even have a defense to defend the country? As to the change of interest rate? In the amendment, ladies of the SYRIZA, it changes the interest rate more than the funds - which you used to call as you said before, the 'brows', which are now the'surprises' and'sparks' for you - will be able to change the interest rate as they judge on the objective criteria. For special payrolls. Mr. Kammenos is gone. They legislate for the second time, they deceive the Armed Forces and the Security Body, and in fact I understand and interpret, the Troika or in common has forced you to bring a new text, to put it up to 30-09 and to bring definitive measures, equivalent to the text, the translation from the English text, as you have translated it and you bring it to the vote by the Members, which must be specified in the biennial text. And today we hear Mr Kammenos say here that he has accounts and is addressed to the Armed Forces and the Security Body? A little shame, isn't there? To deceive them in the face of the Step of the House? Where are these measures? Where are the bills that he said he had them ready? Why didn't he bring those accounts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u672	Put down the codes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u673	And I'm moving on to the issue of the cutter. Ladies and gentlemen, let the Greek people know that the issue of the cutter and as it comes today to be voted on by the amendment on the recession is new measures which, in my assessment, I will give you the order of magnitude, when you cut off from wage and pension costs, the impact on the recession is 30% to 40%. So, in one case...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u674	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u675	In case - because the economy is sinking into the recession, unfortunately - take measures of the order of 3 billion... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] All right, vote for it all. The Greek people see you, judge and evaluate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u676	He judges and compares.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u677	You will know that 2% of GDP measures will have an impact of at least 30% to 40%. In other words, today, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you will also vote for new measures, the effect of the downward recession that Mr Tsakalotos has brought you to vote on, Mr Tsakalotos. From there on... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yeah, you're in a hurry to get down. I know. You don't want to hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u678	You have some more time, Mr. Brutsi. Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u679	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u680	Tell us, finally, what you never say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u681	I'll tell you what New Democracy says. The New Democracy has been serious about it, with responsibility, making efforts. Through our efforts, the sacrifices of the Greek people, we balanced the Greek economy and at the end of 2014 none of what the Greek people are experiencing today would need. Unfortunately, you deceived the Greeks. You have come with wishes, with a view to abolishing HPAI, which, with an amendment again, you are increasing to special-purpose enterprises and you will also close them. You said you would increase pensions and cut them horizontally and vertically. You said you would increase the wages and reduce their wages, the minimum wage, through taxation. You said you would keep the special VAT arrangements on the islands, you betrayed it, you betrayed islands, you delivered the VAT. You have reduced the wages of workers, even of EUR 617. That's who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u682	What does the New Democracy propose?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u683	The final conclusion is that you are the definition of inability. But you believe, but you mean. For the chair and its preservation, you are voting for other things. You can't benefit the Greek people. Make the decision an hour earlier. September - October social anger and social reaction will be before you. Because the measures and the SYRIZA account - ANEL arrive then. Take the decision and quit. You will do good not only in Greece, but in yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u684	Mr Georgiadis has the floor for thirty seconds and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u685	Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Quick raised personal issues. I'm starting with the first one. Mr. Chakaloto, you said I don't understand English well. You know, it's true that you speak much better English than I speak much better English than you do. That's obvious. I didn't have your own luck in studying these good schools you went to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u686	You've done this a lot of times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u687	Let us read, however, a little what this famous Eurogroup decision says from the English text, which you like best: "These measures will be included if an update of the debt sustainability... etc." And a little below: "If necesssary, some targeted EFSF refiling... etc." If accessory and will be affected if an update. The 'if necesssary' in English, Mr President, and for me, I am not as good a user of English as you, is 'if necessary'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u688	Yes, but before that, he has defined what it means.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u689	Minister, you will take the floor after you speak. Then. Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u690	If you reach the end you have a whole paragraph that says that if the programme is implemented faithfully, and the Greek Government does what it needs, they will not need it. So, Minister, when you come with this decision here, speaking with a look from the Step of the House is going too far. Ask for an apology for all the nonsense you personally said five years and leave the look. In this House five years personally, you told us that you would abolish everything and abolish nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u691	All right, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u692	As far as Mr. Quick is concerned, he spoke and ran away...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u693	You know what it means to run away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u694	He didn't run. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u695	He ran away. Because when someone attacks staff, he's still watching his response. Mr. Quick made the attack, opened the door and left. It is the same of the Independent Greeks not to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u696	Come on a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u697	Constantly, Mr. Quick refers to his great love, to the late nation ruler Constantine Karamanlis. I would ask him not to do so, because if Constantine Karamanlis knew he would once know a Terrence Quik who would be working with a party like SYRIZA who came to get us out of Europe, which was the main deposit of Constantine Karamanlis, he would have cut him off on the morning. Mr. Quick's nerve's gone! And be here to hear answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u698	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u699	The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for one minute and then Mr Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u700	First, I would like to apologise to Mr Georgiadis, because now I understand that his lack of understanding of the text has nothing to do with English. He just doesn't understand the text. The text above the piece you read defines what "if necesssary" means. He's setting it up. That's the difference. All these measures will be taken so that Greece can have credit needs below 15%. This is if Necessary. This is if you could read before. About the other thing you said, you needed to read a little below. Because the other one says that the IMF will ask for other measures after the DSA, that is, then it will carry out a debt viability study and ask for other measures if necessary. So I think we have made it clear to everyone that the huge difference in Eurogroup's agreement that we received on 24 November 2012 is that our agreement defines what "if necesssary" means. It does not depend on the Minister of Finance of Germany, Italy, Greece, Spain in 2018, because it has already been designated, it has already agreed what 'if accessary' means. So this has nothing to do with your English.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u701	Good. Thank you. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u702	In the November 2012 decision, can you tell me where he writes ‘if necesssary’?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u703	Let's move on. The Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr. Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u704	He doesn't write it anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u705	The Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u706	Mr President, let's go and talk to the three of them. When are we supposed to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u707	Mr. Georgiadis will talk again and then we'll be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u708	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u709	There are very important things to be said, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u710	The indignation of the Chamber is quite justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u711	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u712	Mr. Quick, please don't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u713	I will insist, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u714	You'll insist. Okay. Mr. Petropoulou, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u715	There are important issues that need to be made clear to the Greek people who are watching. Otherwise, I wouldn't talk and there wouldn't be any reason to come back and I didn't think about it. You have, however, ravaged there in the New Democracy to cut the possibility for small businesses under 2 thousand and the choice to pay smaller contributions. You've been eaten now. You say it again. You also told the committees on matters relating to work, you said so in plenary. They finally heard you from outside. They told us why you told them. And we don't accept it. That's enough! That's enough! And every time that happens. And this time it's happening. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I must tell you that every debate is of interest and it is also charming when it is made with political controversy and with substance. I like political controversy when it really has arguments and has political substance. I cannot hear here that we are abolishing the collective nature of the Equity Fund, ignoring as a responsible minister at work once the previous speaker from the Democratic Association Mr Koutsoukos that the Equity Fund was an address of the Ministry of Finance. Absolutely. And what we do in the law is to say that the board of directors will decide - that is what it decides - but with the agreement of the Director-General responsible, so that the system can really guarantee that it gives a dividend with potential to give it in the future. Why do we say that? Because the Equity Fund is a typical case of the maladministration, mismanagement and the Ruspheological policy of the governments that preceded them, which have become a healthy Equity Fund, cannot in any case give a dividend. Because, for reasons of rhetoric, they gave a huge amount of dividends and kept it with such a reasonable vote and deprived the resources it had over time, so that it cannot give a dividend today. We have reason to believe that we had to ensure that dividends were available, and that is why we did so. You're talking about reducing the single. And you say it that since 2013 you are no longer giving a single one and you would never give, if we do not come to put a fair and reasonable weighting of things, so that everyone can take a single, fair, equitable and equitable one. And indeed, the rule that we put this in fulfils, with the means it has and the funds it has. As far as the EESC is concerned, we have been talking about it for so long, and the Prime Minister said so too, that we will not go to retroactive payments. You were mocking in various ways. We're doing this now, you still don't like it. It's not possible to get that relationship out! It is not possible for the debate to take place between completely impossible to hear. And you don't listen or you don't want to say what you hear, because you have nothing to say. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude with the social resources. It's a lot I can say, but I'll finish with it. The social resources to which I have referred, and I have been very clear and detailed, relate to contributions made by lawyers and engineers basically and were borne by the income they otherwise generated. This amount will not be retained, as the contribution they pay is on the net profits they make. We have said that this is another measure to alleviate this category of insured persons. There's no reason to keep it. It was their request, too. We adopted it. Are you against it? I don't understand. What exactly do you want? Or what we say you're just thinking about saying no? I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u716	Look. Because Ping-Pong between the MPs on staff and others has gone too far, I will give Mr Quick the floor, with the request not to trigger any new explosions in the Chamber. You have thirty seconds and with the request for calm, because we have to move on to our legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u717	Whether it is thirty seconds or sixty seconds, you know that I am not prone to toys and televises, like other colleagues here in the Chamber. I'm not the showman who's nourished by the cocks, and I think I've made it clear many times. I came here just so you don't think that I was fleeing, as the New Democracy did yesterday to go to protect Mr. Papastavrous and all his fellow people on the various lists. That's why I came here. And, of course, as you can imagine, I refuse to use the name of Constantine Karamanlis when some want to treat it in their political speech. I just said that he is a hostage party now in the hands of Samaras and LAOS, which unfortunately has nothing to do with the fact that Constantine Karamanlis founded and let the caramanoids of the New Democracy consider it. I am not concerned with their personalities and their internals, because I am the Independent Greeks, but I am not forgetting my roots. At least I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u718	Thank you. Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor for five minutes. I'm sorry, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u719	Thank you, Mr President. The apologies, not only from me, but from the rest of the Members, have been accepted - I imagine that they will also be the apologies - who patiently expect to speak. There have therefore been five amendments dealing with the 'hearts' of the prerequisites for the closure of the evaluation and the multitude of disbursement of the first instalment of 7.5 billion. They effectively correct the recent multi-project voted after the "scotching" of the institutions. The question, however, which always remains is whether it is the institutions' suggestions or also has some secret government intentions, in the hope of passing camouflage as compulsory provisions, in order to close the dubious assessment. Starting fast - quickly with more specific things. I am starting with Amendment No 466, on the liberalisation of the electricity market. Mr. Skourletis is here, so he'll hear it. What changed in Article 135? What exactly did you fix? That's not understandable. As it is now, the article seems to be released only 13% of the electricity market by 2019. It should be recast so that the percentages are cumulative on the total volume of each previous year in order to reach 50% of the liberalisation in 2020, which is what we signed with the August agreement with paragraph 4.3. In other words, free 8% in 2016, 8% plus 12% in 2017, 20% plus 13%, i.e. 33% in 2018, 33% plus 13%, i.e. 46% in 2019. It is therefore necessary, in our view, to clarify in the wording that these rates should either be cumulative on total sales or only refer to PPC's sales volume which is constantly falling. Otherwise, we will be the miraclemakers of liberalisation of energy markets, as we will have 13% liberalisation in 2019 and we will have to go to 50% in 2020. We are closing down in this and going to the other amendment with a general number of 465 and paragraph 6, where you are abolishing with an extraordinary amendment in substance, such as today's, seventy-five years' old laws, which have given funds to the engineering funds, the National Technical University, the Legal Fund, etc. We wouldn't be negative, but why didn't this thing come sooner and have to come and spend the night with brief procedures? Why don't we talk about it? Why should the relevant bodies not be consulted? Shouldn't we be listening to arguments here, weighing the impact? Because in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State there is a loss of EUR 15 million for the funds. Where will these resources come from? Or did they ask us to do so without much - and without much - so that the various trade unions could not react, did we run away now to close the evaluation? In Amendment No 467, as regards the frontal tolls in Egnatia, I imagine Mr Spirtzis, once again, who, on the next page, has signed it, would sign it. In Amendment No 468, the mathematical formula for the cutter remains the same. It has no fundamental change, and we wonder why you bring it with legislative improvement. However, with regard to natural disasters, the words in the recent law 'after special consultation of the institutions' are made 'by agreement with the institutions'. Fortunately, that with SYRIZA the bills would not come dictated and translated! Finally, I hope that the evaluation, even with seven months' delay, will be completed here, and with what this means to the Greek economy. Because as long as we're late, the bill's up, and that should have been a lesson to us. The Oriental bazaar, the pouches and the puppies, I hope it has become obvious no longer. You have spent time, powers and credibility on the inner audience. Meanwhile, the Greek economy was boasting in this stagnation. So what matters is the credibility that the government has to recover, because with its relics and amateurisms it has been lost. To recover it for the sake of all of us, because if you're untrustworthy, they'll ask you for ten to do the five, and that's what happened in our case. The credibility, however, is gaining, is unsatisfactory. And in order for the government to gain its lost credibility, it must change minds, see what other countries, Cyprus, Ireland, and how they did it. You cannot be shoved against the private sector at all times and at the same time be convinced that you are within the European framework. You can't talk about structural reforms and go on with customer practices and roussefetomy. However, the credibility of any government has to do with a minimum of understanding, and that concerns us all, at least of the forces that agree to the European perspective of Greece. This European perspective can only be achieved through targeted structural reforms, which require wider consensus. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you haven't taken the class in the last six years, where everyone was in a hurry to get the game on him and usually ate his face. A lesson, therefore, that goes back in the past few centuries, is concentrated within seven words and we need to know well that while polarization wins, Greece loses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u720	Mr President, please, let me say something personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u721	I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdo, just a minute to take over, and then I'll give you the floor right away. Let me give Mr. Karathanasopoulos, so that I don't delay him and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u722	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please precede this is not a political matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u723	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u724	At 17.00 hours is the funeral of Giorgos Panagiotakopoulos. He was our partner, a man we lived with, good and bad at times. We want to wish him a good trip on his last trip. I am rapporteur, I cannot leave, Mr President, I will stay here. But I felt a human duty to make this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u725	And I'll fill it out if it hasn't happened in the morning. It does not matter that he is not a colleague of ours in the House, but he was a man with a very great spirit and therefore, on behalf of all the wings of condolences to his family. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u726	Thank you, Mr President. Last time we discussed the plan to close the evaluation, we told you you were the theoballers. You got over that, too. You're over it today, too! We don't know what else to tell you. You have neither sacred nor loyal. Trace of political dignity has not been left to you. But is it possible, while the plenary process has begun, to bring in an amendment revising the status of first residence? And you've brought it to the muskets, to the secret? Why did you do it? Why didn't you even submit this amendment last night? So that we cannot make a roll-call vote, because you know that there are Members who are in the province for political activity and have done so? Do you think you'll avoid? We're telling you this clearly. Withdrawal of this amendment or bring it to the vote another day. Tomorrow. Give it the opportunity to vote on a roll-call vote, because these methods are unacceptable. They go beyond any limit of fantasy. The New Democracy and the PASOK, of course, have been disgraceful, but you have overrun them. You have taken not only doctoral, but you give them lessons and lessons what they will do the next time you do, legalize any process. There's some limits, anyway. You cannot come at lunch, while you have begun the process and say that even the loans you say you are protecting, you give them to the funds, to the "brows" as you said, and so are, to manage the first home mortgages that are red up to 140,000 euros and which you have protected up to 31-12-2017. You cannot come and hand over the loans, which were the protection and guarantee of the Greek State, which many of them are the earthquakes of greasy and firefighting. Many of these are greedy and firefighting earthquakes. And you give them too, not only to manage them, but you sell them directly without any restriction. Nothing at all. You're over it. In fact, you were applauded for the previous time when we discussed the legislation governing the operation of these undertakings, that you were setting a strict framework. What strict frame do you put in? You are now abolishing this too. Today, whatever strict framework you are abolishing, because since these enterprises are licensed in the countries of the European Economic Area, no more requirements are needed. It relaxes the institutional framework and control. You reach the point where the 4.5 million to be paid to the Greek banks as equity capital is to enable them to pay anywhere, in any country in the European Economic Area. And you're so theobjective that to preview the mortgage in the mortgage box, they have to pay 2,500 euros for every addition. And you're reducing these 2,500 euros and going to 20 euros. With 20 euros, they're running out and attaching themselves to the mortgage room. That's the kind of facility you're giving them. What else do you mean, give them? How far will this situation go, that prick? How much more will you make it easier for the red funds to fall like a corps on the loans of the self-employed, the poor farmers, the professionals, the housing loans of the people's families? You've left nothing. No more protection exists. The sweater went out too fast, within three months and not in two, three years, that you said you would protect them. A similar logic applies to the other amendments, which are the line of assessment, which is the tail of the anti-grass attack, so that you can take the second instalment, which will, of course, increase the public debt and at the same time support and strengthen the action of the large capital, the business groups. A similar logic exists in other issues. You are bringing an amendment to change the toll regime. Why? Because he was putting obstacles to the privatisation of Egnatia. Now you are also changing this so that the privatisation of Egnatia can go ahead. You are making it easier to liberalise the electricity market even more. You bring greater amounts than you had voted on ten days ago. You're giving the right to electricity for auction. You facilitate the privatisation of IPTO. In this context, the whole of the amendments are being put in motion. Even the changes that are made with the insurance are making even worse the situation in this non-life insurance monarchy, which you have brought. You are reducing the one-off of the self-employed. You're reducing social resources to the funds. They are about the funds of engineers, lawyers and doctors. In fact, you are even changing what you said about the two thousand inhabitants, the ministerial decision setting the charges and how the contributions will be paid. You're changing that and you're only staying on the contributions. So all the charges. There's no exception. All professionals will enter villages under two thousand inhabitants. No exceptions will exist, because after ten days you changed it. While in the previous ministerial decision it was that you will also determine the charges, now you are only saying how the contributions will be paid. Remove everything you claimed you would protect and do in the previous period. These are the amendments and the provisions you bring. It is also the provision, in which you put the tax issues relating to the unfamiliar cutting point, where, in fact, you said before that, when it comes to expenditure on natural disasters, you will inform the institutions and you will be taking the decision, you are now putting them on the table. The institutions must also agree that these expenditure will be excluded from the budget cut. Not even that earthquakes, famines and strains can be said to be excluded from the budget cut and from the primary surplus. In this respect, therefore, the automatic cutting process of wages and pensions is much more accelerated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u727	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, can we get the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u728	I shall conclude with this, Mr President, and thank you very much both for the tolerance and for the other rapporteurs, respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u729	I didn't tell you to stop, I told you to pack it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u730	I agree, and I collect it. I'm done anyway. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear. We tell you this and we will depend on our position, whether or not we legalise this process, on how we vote, especially on the late amendment of a general number of 469, which you have brought in and on housing loans. That is what we are asking again and we want you to take a position as a government to be able to vote on even tomorrow so that each party can table a motion for a roll-call vote. The answer you give will depend on our position, whether or not we legalise this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u731	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and four teachers - teachers from the Elementary School of Institutional Preveza. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now he's mutually transferred...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u732	Mr President, may I have fifteen seconds for a clarification to Mr. Karathanasopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u733	Here, you've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u734	Not two minutes, fifteen seconds is enough. Liberalization - liberalisation for management companies took place in December. That's where the liberation took place. We just made a mistake in a change that made this unclear. That's what we changed. The basic decision on the liberalisation of markets, as far as it is concerned, was determined. We didn't bring anything new, that is. You're not right, Mr. Karathanasopus. I did not do more than fifteen seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u735	Just one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u736	Now don't start this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u737	Just a word. I would like to say that I hear Mr Stathakis with my ears at the same time saying that the first residence of up to EUR 140,000 has been protected for three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u738	For the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u739	Altogether. You didn't separate it. And very important is whether it's buying or managing red loans. The same result has been made on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u740	It's for the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u741	Now with the new position of the Minister, this is the case. There has been a mutual transfer, so Mr Kegeroglou, then Mr Theocharis, Mrs Megalo-Economics, and before I give the floor to Mr Carras, for three minutes I have been asked for an explanation from Mr Vitsas and three colleagues, one from Parliament, three from Parliament and one from Parliament. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u742	I would like to thank my colleague for her facilitation, and I would ask Mr Theocharis, if she wishes, to speak afterwards, so as not to miss another appointment Mrs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u743	A date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u744	Yeah, another meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u745	You go ahead and I'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u746	Your mind goes to the wicked one, you can't say anything, but anyway. I want to clarify two issues, one to the side of the New Democracy and the other to the side of SYRIZA and the government. Look, island support measures have a timelessness. Most, however, were taken from the PASOK governments. In particular, the reduced VAT, Mr Brutsis, could not have been on Constantine Karamanlis, who was in the government before the VAT institution was applied in our country. In 1986-1987 VAT was applied, so the reduced VAT on the islands was also predicted, I think it was a PASOK government. And the second one to SYRIZA. I will submit to the Minutes the real e-mail Hardouvelis, so that the SYRIZA Members and those of the e-mail sent to Hardouveli, that is, what the Troikas asked for, are not misinformed. So the real e-mail Hardouvelis says the ESS is maintained, Mr. Katrugale, who this morning went to the channels and said what you wanted. It also says specific things that are agreed. Of course, from one point to the current government, it does not matter what they are asking for and what they answer, because what they ask we give it. Listening to the Minister of Finance earlier, I imagined that he was not the same person to say, but that he was a representative of the troika. He wouldn't say anything different. The fact that the SYRIZA Members have been able to vote for some of the avadorica which are now being removed by the regulations or, in any event, in order to withdraw, after the vote, my dear colleague, this does not change the substance. In any case, to God, the man who, for five years here, has been jumping against the memorials, measures, negotiations and agreements and trampling what the troika says. He's also talking about a account. The Troika's account, of course, is there. But we need a record differently for the country and the account for the country must escape the enclavism that the current government has led to the situation. Unfortunately, we're in a new recession. This new recession is constantly creating additional burdens for the country. It's never gonna end. Greece is dragging. The measures taken in the previous period concern low and medium-income. Even in insurance of 2 billion, 1 billion are horizontal cuts, and the other is one of the small pensioners. So, for the purposes of indirect taxes, excise duties, VAT, who are the ones affected? Aren't they hurting low and middle incomes? Tell me a measure of the great wealth. It is not enough that the 'black' propaganda of the meter - I recognize it - of the kind, of the former director of the newspaper 'AGEY'. That's not enough to fool the world. The people from today have been paying VAT and paying the cost of this glorious negotiation, this unspeakable negotiation, which has led to this unspeakable result for the citizens. We have tabled an amendment, which concerns two issues. For the second time I testified her. The ministers weren't informed the first time. Now I hope it is. Mr. Minister, holder of the bill, has punished us. It has not been mentioned at all. It concerns, first, the failure for six months to carry out examinations for the acquisition of a driving licence and any relevant procedure. We explained it a hundred times that it does not cost the budget. We tabled the amendment and we want it accepted. It is the Minister today who has reputedly replaced Mr Spirtzi in all his duties, even in crying and enthusiasm for voting on the Ennaia provision. Of course, the same amendment refers to the second part of the proposal to remove the inability and obstacles to checks by the appraisers of the ELGA. Unfortunately, the government is deaf to the demands of the workers, to the request of the farmers who are losing rights from this weakness. We are asking today that the ministers be immediately informed to accept the amendment. They're unsolved. Let the SYRIZA MPs from the region speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u747	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u748	Haven't these two things bothered them? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u749	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u750	Mrs. Chrysovelloni, let me not interrupt my colleagues. Immediately afterwards, I will give you the floor so that the flow will not be interrupted. Mr. Theochari, do you mind if we not leave Ms. Big Housekeeper lately?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u751	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u752	Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u753	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, may I ask today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, at least you who belong to education, from kindergarten to university teachers, especially academics, are happy? Wouldn't you like to resign today? Can you look into the eyes the kids from kindergarten to your students? I want you to answer me honestly! In relation to what Mr Friend said, would the parents sign if they would say "princess" or "my queen", etc., I, as a grandmother, should I sign up for my grandson if I should call him "my prince" or "my queen"? Can't I call them "my darlings" or "my sultana" or "my machine"? Will Mr. Friends allow me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u754	I call it a princess, however!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u755	May Mr. Friends allow you? I will call him "My sultane" and "Suleiman Magnificent". It seems to me that things have changed, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u756	Minister, don't ruin my meeting. Don't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u757	Mr President, I'm sorry, but a few things we have to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, because of your dear habit in the government you have probably forgotten how bills should be passed. All you know is to pass the amendments as a matter of urgency at the last minute in unrelated bills. It seems to me that you are worse than both previous governments, when I was not a MP, who accused them of going through bills like that! I was watching you on TV at the time, 'cause I had a maniac. Looks like I had a DNA to get into politics. So you blamed them as soon as they went through bills at night, I'd watched that! Now I don't know if that's a lack of democracy. It can be nothing but this. The essence of the problem is that the arrangements you bring are - if anything - scandalous. You have made so many concessions to national sovereignty and after so much absolute submission to the institutions you have made another retreat after your surely great so-called "negotiation". That's too big a deal! So, what did you do? You are further reducing the protection of first residence. You told us in Article 3(8), Minister of Finance, that you are protecting the first residence with a value of up to EUR 140,000 and you do not mind it until EUR 31-12-2017, you do not give it to foreign funds, the so-called 'brows', according to popular expression, nor do you sell it, nor do you deliver it. Now, with the new amendment, you are giving them all the management loans. This was not in the previous bill in Article 3(7). In fact, on what grounds do you give it? In order to achieve the proper management of the requirements resulting therefrom. That's how you justify it. Do you think the Greek people do not understand that this is another requirement of the institutions to which you retreat? And where will you get to? All loans will be managed by the new companies that will be set up and serve all interests. And as if that were not enough, you are asking today to vote for another change in the cut. And I will explain to you what: you want, even if our country is in a terrible disaster, that we have to ask for the approval of the institutions. That is, to use money for the affected and to apply the cutter. Let us say clearly to the Greek people that our government is decorative. In other words, we must pray to the Virgin Mary Myrtidiotissa, who is in Kythera, that no great disaster occur, earthquake, famine, oppression, because we must get approval from the mercy of not Panagia but from the institutions! The ESS, the allowance received by the low pensioners, in fact since January 2015, that you had been asking them to take it retrospectively, is now being asked from June. At what cost, after the cut will be made for all pensioners in 2017? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. In other words, you tried to give us another cutback as a supposed success. I do not want to comment on anything else, Minister. Just say this: In January 2015 you told us that "the sun came out on Monday". I will paraphrase you a poem: "Look. They decapitated again the stars and the sun red as a slaughterhouse." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u758	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Theocharis, I would like to inform you of this: the meeting was agreed to end at 7 p.m., because there is a Ministerial Council and the Ministers must, objectively, go there. However, in consultation with the President of Parliament, because there are few remaining speakers, I have a responsibility to go by 17:45 - so all speakers may be able to speak plus two parliamentary representatives - and then move on to the vote. Just, please, keep the five-minute, because it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u759	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u760	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u761	Mr President, with regard to the procedure to which you referred, I would like to say that the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has made a request for a roll-call vote. I propose that the vote be taken tomorrow so that the roll-call vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u762	But until it is time for the vote, the Minister will answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u763	Does he have a name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u764	No, he doesn't have a nominal. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u765	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalotos, a man with whom we have long been in agreement with many, said so, and he said so: today you are ending with the Government. You don't need the country anymore. Whatever you've offered, you've offered. Go away. After all, a week ago you completed with your moral advantage. Immortality with the booze! Offshore ate it! Get out of here! He didn't complete it, though. He didn't think of it as a logical conclusion. Today you're finishing with SYRIZA. Hello, Mr Chakalotos, who has succumbed to everything and completed the evaluation. Good for you to do it! Can you tell me why you still exist? If what you do today and the previous days are wrong and fail, then you are alien. You have sold your ideas about the chair and you will have destroyed the country. You need to leave home. Let Life and Panagiotis come to your place! It'll be better. On the other hand, if it's correct what you're doing right now and take off the country, then everything you thought so far is wrong. All your ideology is useless. You must hide and never appear again. Just weights, that is, losers. These, of course, who must never disappear are the ministers. Well, isn't Mr. Katrugalos ashamed to say the NSA was useless? How does it feel to hear him? To abolish it now. He'll have to make arrangements to abolish it now, if it's useless. If she's lying, she's giving up, because she's playing with the pain of the weak. But the worst is Mr. Spirji. He tried to prevent Ennatia from being privatised. These are the ‘Sheeps, version 2’. He made a legislative effort to stop this privatisation and ate such a mistake that he was ashamed to step in here. She sent Mrs. Chrysovelloni to his post to support the withdrawal of the law. Of course, Mrs. Chrysovelonis couldn't even write a word. What's that poor thing to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u766	You're not well informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u767	Yes, yes! Let Mr. Spirji come here. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk much about the individual. I'll just say two words. The amendment to the CSCE reduces retrospectively from one month to six. But this is what the pensioners of the ECHR are getting away with, the Prime Minister told us that he will come from the Social Fund, that is to say, from the lameness of all of us. Today we see that this amount comes from the lower pensioners themselves. In fact, it comes from the lowest people who, instead of cutting them in 2020, are cutting them out a year earlier, in 2019. So it comes one week after the Prime Minister's announcements. Really, how can a Greek citizen believe this Prime Minister? I must also say that the equivalents of those paid with special wages must be forgotten. Time is shortened for the government. The measures become permanent and, therefore, more difficult and will never come. If they were, the government would have brought them, as he was trying to bring them. Finally, with the new amendment over an hour ago, all loans with a public guarantee, as well as loans with loans of less than EUR 140,000, are sold to collectors - 'brows'. The red lines go. But the Minister must tell us something, Mr. Chakalotos. If the 'brows' turn against the public and immediately ask for the guarantees, what are you going to do? What are you going to do with these loans? I'll tell you what you're gonna do. You're going out, you're going to lose your numbers, and you're going to fall the cutter. You're going to cut off the salaries of civil servants. The wages of civil servants are currently paid to the 'coops'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u768	Yeah, we're giving them it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u769	That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u770	This is anticipated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u771	Sure. You're dangerous to the country. You're only useful to lenders because you don't negotiate. You stick to one or two topics in communication and all the rest you say okay. Secondly, the lenders want the PASOK and the New Democracy in Opposition. In other states with a memorandum, government and opposition, they gave hands and took their country out of the crisis. There was no such consensus here. Creditors can blackmail the government, but they can't blackmail the Opposition. They don't have any tools. They then kneeled the PASOK Government and asked for the consent of the New Democracy. Aw, lighten up. He wasn't coming. So the New Democracy came and kneeled down too. You didn't learn from her lesson. You declared a revolution then. You're here now, and you're kneeling. Thus, the lenders took the consensus in practice by hitting and gradually kneeling the entire political system. Now, you all agree. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you are shaking the elections. That's why you closed the evaluation, because the people in your conscience have already driven away. But in this resolution, you will not need creditors either, because the laws are over. Now he wants realization you'll never do. So, your protectors, the protectors of the protector you made, in the first chance they'll throw you out. It will be the beginning of a new era of responsibility. It'll be the beginning for hope to be born again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u772	Thank you, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u773	Mr President, could I have the floor to say something about an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u774	What amendment? New ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u775	Mr President, we have re-examined an amendment which we had previously discussed, by Members and by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in the same context as Mr Loverdes and Mr Amyras, with another explanatory statement, which of course provides that Article 78 of the Treaty is repealed. Date of entry into force: 4386/2016. This concerns the mansion that is in the Municipality of Kallithea and which was requested by the Ministry of Justice to be granted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u776	It's a familiar matter. Don't get too far. He had created a matter, a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u777	The Members who sign it are Mr. Dimitras, Mrs. Aylonitou, Mr. Theonas, Mrs. Kavadia, Mrs. Kafantaris, Mr. Kritsis, Mr. Lappas, Mrs. Goufi, Mr. Tsirkas, Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Sarakiotis and Mr. Papachristopoulos. The amendment has a general number of 471 and a special 33 and is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u778	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u779	Mr President, could I have the floor for fifteen seconds too? You know when I say 15 seconds, I keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u780	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u781	Because there has been a lot of discussion outside the Chamber on loans, housing, or small and medium-sized enterprises, which have pledged the house, the property, I want to make it clear that nothing has changed. Their protection, as they are not sold in the ‘funds’, is valid. All that changed - and did not change substantially, but it was a mistake and clears the decision taken by Parliament in December - is that banks can use service companies. I say this one last time that nothing has changed in the sale of these loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u782	Good. Well, now, because they're looking for you from the Ministerial Council, just leave me Mr. Petersburg in the Chamber and leave the rest of the ministers to close them faster. That's enough, Mr. Petropoulos. He represents you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u783	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u784	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u785	Here you go, Mr. Vitsa. You have the floor for two minutes. And then Mrs Chrysovelloni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u786	Thank you, Mr President. You know, I chose to make an intervention now, after this personal cycle had been completed, just to try and convince colleagues about the correctness of voting on the amendment by the Ministry of National Defence in the most relaxed way and avoiding the procedures that have been done, because things have been heard, which are inaccurate. My intervention concerns the freezing of the payroll for 2017 and 2018. I would like to remind you that in the previous law we voted that this could happen unless the Ministries bear equivalents. In this amendment we put the time by which the equivalents will be entered. Here, I would like to remind you to know financially that we are usually talking about reducing expenditure or raising revenue once, this known one off. When you talk about 2017 and 2018 is not a permanent measure, let's call it two off with that logic. So we have no measure that will last on either side or on the other. We do not want - and we do not want - to freeze special wages. So we - and this is what we are talking about at the Ministry of National Defence and the Minister formerly and as President of the Independent Greeks has put a number of ideas on the other ministries - are discussing a mixture that has on the one hand a reduction in the code of armaments, which is needed - as the New Democracy knows, I imagine, because it is its law, if I remember well, or PASOK - and signature by the Minister of Finance, secondly, an increase in revenue from the start of the development of the late property, and thirdly, from an increase in revenue from outstanding cases within them and the element of corruption. That's for the two years. However, our design is longer and this is important for the Members and the Greek people to know. On the one hand, there will be a reduction in expenditure from the reconstruction of the Armed Forces. And here I would like to remind those who say and know financially that certain costs, which have a permanent character at the beginning, produce an exit. I mean, taking a camp at first is an exit, it's not a cost reduction. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u787	Please complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u788	I'm done, I need five seconds. And secondly, the use of the slow estate. And here I want to tell you this. The use of only 1/5 of the value of the property of the people and the Armed Forces generates a new revenue of at least EUR 200 million per year. So in ten years when an investment grows and is profitable, we are talking about two billion. If this does not convince you that it is worth it and that it is simply the process of whether or not we affect a part of the Greek people, these will appear very easily. Sunday's short celebration. And what does the song call it? I'm translating it, you'll wake up when September is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u789	Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor for only two minutes. And there is an end to any intervention by the Ministers. I do not give a minute at the expense of colleagues. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u790	Mr. Kegeroglu, because you said we were crying, I want to tell you this: We are actually saying. From that point on, the cry was to be cast by you when you established eleven tolls in Egnatia to the detriment of Greek citizens. Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Spirtzis did not leave so he wouldn't come here, not even in our ministry. Mr. Spirtzis is outside Greece for purely service reasons. So he didn't escape as you guys are trying to show up. As for the amendment to which Mr Kegeroglu referred, I think we have told you before, Mr Kegeroglu. The Ministry is not trying to block the subject of the examinations and examinations. So now that the evaluation is closed, and now that the negotiations we have made with the institutions on this issue have been concluded, there will be an amendment in the next few days so that we can cover a transitional stage and begin to carry out the examinations, but the aim of our Ministry's own is to reform the examination framework in full so that it can be done in a transparent and perfectly clear manner, that this is not the way of doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u791	Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u792	Mr President, thank you. I will try to save my time, because the fatigue of the Chamber already exists, but also a number of issues have been raised in the way of legislating, since we came in the morning to deal with sanctions for international conventions, where, as you know best from me, it is now a limited debate and we are here after six - seven hours of procedure that we do not understand what is being introduced and what is being asked by the government to legislate. At this point I want to be precise. I shall therefore give a few votes in my speech on the amendments which are being introduced. I consider the main amendment to be the issue of the equivalents to special wages, Mr President, because they relate to a large portion of Greeks, who actually offer, be they university professors, or doctors from the ESS or from the Security Councils. I note, therefore, that the whole debate in the Chamber was initiated by both the Minister of National Defence and the Deputy to the military salary. So we have heard that there will be restrictions, reimbursements from the armaments programmes. I hope it works. But it's not just uniforms. I have heard new, well-intentioned views that we will put back fees to the courts so that there is a special account with the Ministry of Justice to maintain the level of the salaries of the judges. What does that say? Is that what it says is being abandoned by the State to provide a public justice service? I must remind you, Mr President - and the House knows - that justice is not just a pillar of democracy, it is one of the three independent functions of the state. So are we going to say that in every sentence or in every case the judge is in court, will we put an end to forming a special account? It is only this thought that risks that it will be possible, depending on the size and volume of the case and the economic object, to have a reward fee in this sense that will shake the validity of justice. I want to say something else at this point. What reward fees will the university teachers have? We're going to put a tuition fee? Will the state cease to provide higher education, which is also a public obligation and a service, and will we put a tuition and tell the student "pay to learn"? I think that these things should no longer be said. I do not want to go any further into these examples that I have given. However, I would also like to point out something else that has dealt with me in a number of amendments. We see that we voted the day before yesterday, which created the so-called superstition. Today, the superstition is also pre-supposed by an amendment, as follows: that the tourist properties of EOT are transferred to the EBRD, to the Real Estate Company, which, he says, is already exploited by the EBRD, as such by the EBRD. However, the transfer, which is carried out in full ownership, means that those tourist properties, which were on the ground even on the ground so far used by the EBRD, are now transferred by ownership to the EBRD, which can divest them. In addition, we are privileged by public property, which until at least noon today had been protected from the ownership of the Greek public. I have said that the property of the public President is intended to support, ensure the freedom of Greek citizens, the prosperity and the continued existence of the state. When the last piece of Greek land will be made available for such purposes, I am now beginning to worry about Greece's ability to survive. I do not want to be a veteran of evils or a Cassandra, but on these issues, which come as a 'ours' - let me express - previous legislations may be more critical and more difficult. Another issue, which will be my last because I cannot go along with all the regulations, is that I see that the government regulates, exempts from the general ban on increasing the interest margin - in addition to the reference rate by the issuer - from subordinated loans. Why is this in line with the explanatory statement? The aim of the above increases or some cases of large corporate loans is to determine the legality of these increases. In other words, the banks have already unlawfuld, they have imposed a higher interest rate margin than those they should have imposed on large business loans. So the law comes, the government says: 'We allow large business to increase'. But yesterday two major businesses closed down, which were well known. One in the center of Athens and the other was a security company and closed because the banks no longer financed them. In that sense, Mr President, we are closing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u793	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u794	Leave that, but it's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u795	Please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u796	I'll be done. We put another bomb on the road to Greece's protection and a bomb on the road to development. Because, since we can taco-culture interest rates now, they can be considered legally with a government proposal, who will come to make growth? Who's bringing a capital to Greece? I fear that those few things will be left, too. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u797	I must add to what you said about tourist properties and their transfer to the EBRD, that Article 16 of the law that was passed, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago, where tourist properties were entitled to grant either for use or property to the OTAs, by their own decision, is repealed. We are throwing the OTAs out with this amendment. Just so the briefing is complete. The floor will be taken by Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, then by Mrs Sophia Vultesis, then by Mrs Asmakopoulou, then by Mr Theocharopoulos, then by Mr Barriotas and then by Mr Barriots. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u798	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just seen a theatrical performance of amendments, which is unprecedented. Impressive, insulting and insulting the intelligence of both citizens and colleagues. Mr. Paradigmopoulos brought an unacceptable provision that transferred an Olympic property to the coast of Kallithea, Amphithea, to the Ministry of Justice for the purpose of conducting the great trials. Kallithea stood up, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Flamburaris, told the mayor "we will get it back, it will never happen". Mr Dendias and I have brought together and signed an amendment to a previous bill that was not accepted. He is signing today and tabling an amendment by Mr Loverdos and Mr Amyras, who is not accepted. Once the comrades testify, it's accepted! In order to record, that is, to work and say, that we legislated stupidity, and we got it back with our own signature! What can I say? These are unprecedented populism. I've been in the Chamber for years, but that's not how I've ever seen him before. You do not even respect the pretexts of a parliamentary ethos of decency and logic. I'm not saying you've forgotten the Rules of Procedure. In this step was Alexis Tsipras who said about every line of the constitution. The procedure that we are following today, Mr President, better than I do, is very much against the Rules of Procedure, except for whatever limits, but we are used to it. At one time these seats have been seated by your colleagues who said that we are circumventing every concept of the Rules of Procedure. But now we're going to go on two issues I want to put to you. Fifteen days ago you allegedly closed the evaluation. Today we are reopening the evaluation. The 'waver' would come. The decision was not taken by the European Central Bank on 'waver', because you have to sign a word for word, as English email dictates - and Mr Tsakalotos understands - whatever arrangements you bring. You brought a provision of legislative populism 15 days ago and told us that it would be 'covered', 'can', 'can', as long as the EUR 140 million is found - because we are not talking about a camp - which is about the maturity of the special wages. This provision has been rejected by the Troika as a deficit and you are bringing the same provision today, which describes that within three months you should have found these EUR 140 million from clear codes. Let the aerials that in three months, "we will make use of the property of the public", "we will close camps", "we will reduce the costs" and "we will be able to find the things back from some cases that have not yet begun to be avenged to get money to cover the wages of the officers and officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. Do you think for a long time you're going to keep telling these lies and believe them by the natives? At least, we trust people who have their uniforms that it is not first-class naive to believe everything you say to them, because by 30 September you will not have found the EUR 140 million to cover the maturities. I would then like to see Mr Kammenos, who has made tragedies for VAT on the islands, has said that we should give back to the military the retrospectives of the decision of the Council of State and today cut them off, who has said he will not sell public property, that he will not accept the establishment of the hot spots - he has said all that - and see what he will say again in September, what a performance you will be setting up again. Honestly, I think that as a theatrical critic I notice these things, what a new performance the director will find, what a finder will find to feed the world again with lies. Mr President, I come to one last. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will read “SYNE” and read yesterday's piece about what the Greek economy forecasts are for this year. How'd it go in the first quarter? He's been to 1.6% remission. Today we shall be voting on extra substantive measures. You admit it and we haven't voted for a development law yet it's June. It shall be completed in the first semester. Let me see when you'll turn around the economy. It's 1.6% the recession this year. Decrease in all indicators: exports, consumption costs of 3.3% perpendicular. Since yesterday, 24% of VAT has been in force, the new fictional VAT. Where will you grow and get the target of 0.6% recession this year when the first quarter runs with so great a recession? You're applauding and you're not reading what you're voting on. You also applaud Mr. Tsakaloto for telling you what they were bringing in materially. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with the last amendment that was tabled as a matter of urgency: tolls. I remember the deceiving citizens of the 'I don't pay' movement, I remember the great protests, I remember the atrocities, I remember the attacks. And today, the Minister dares not come to defend this amazing provision for the installation of eleven toll stations in Egnatia. Before Mr Theocharis told you that you will soon complete the cycle of convenientness, which signs everything. Soon, not tomorrow, when you complete the agreement with the IMF. When you come here in the autumn and sign the works, what you say you do not. Today you are already bringing in a regulation on IPTO, which you would not bring to an earlier stage, because you would not even discuss 20%. You told us that you would not prevent PPC, but the Committee on Privatization put PPC in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u799	Mr. Varvichiotis, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u800	You told us you didn't deprive the water because it's sacred. Here was Mr. Famelos, the protagonist of the movement "save water". He pierced his clothes 15 days ago: “It will not be demilitarized by HSY and HSY. We've got away with it." Sunday night it was voted. On Monday the Ministerial Committee on Privileges decided that they too would be for sale. Ladies and gentlemen, you will complete this cycle and then you will have lost the audience, who have built folklore and lying and your allies abroad. The convenient ones at some point when you unravel them remain a weight, an empty lemon butt, which they have no use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u801	Mrs vulgaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u802	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, what we have been following for two days now is a vote. After seven and a half thousand pages, which were voted on by the polynomial plan by the co-government on May 22, today, June 2, ten days later, they vote out everything they had voted on. There is nothing that they have brought as a unity and that they do nothing through this provision. Such a vote, I am voting - I am voting, I do not remember the history of the country. I remember, rather once, from what they say, and it was Papadopoulos, who voted for a law at night to separate Missena Papadopoulou and the next day she voted for this law and voted for another.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u803	Uh, no, Sofia. Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u804	Excuse me, I don't remember anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u805	We're coming to the end now. Calm down in the Chamber. Mr. Mada, you'll close the meeting. I'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u806	I don't remember another case. You are digging the ESS, digging the cutter, digging red loans. There is nothing that you voted on on May 22nd and that you do not bring any change today. That is what you would go out to do the evaluation, it would become Easter, Resurrection, as Mr. Kammenos said, who now says he will vote for Kalashnikov in NATO. We are talking here about things that have never happened before, and really such a lie on the planet in all historical times has never been heard! I'm so sorry. Tell me how many privatizations the September program said you would do and how many of you had dizzy your head that you would do and how much you prevented. What were you saying until the day before yesterday? That you're only going to do nine, that the previous government had predicted twenty-three. And how many did you do? Nineteen! The nine, then, became nineteen in secret, and nothing is wrong. You don't care. You've taken a list of demilitarisations. What, for example, were you saying in your September programme? You were saying something about the cutter and I don't remember? You said there would be a mechanism and you would bring an amendment that would force you and the special mathematical formula and I don't remember it? Perhaps the summer agreement, which you have put all, journalists and politicians, on windows saying: "But you voted, Mrs Vulture in the summer." No, I'm sorry, I didn't vote for it. He was saying the summer's deal that you'll give the service loans and I don't remember? Is that somewhere? Because I remember your September programme, the second phase of lies, which you were saying only for non-services, the services you had forgotten all about. You were only saying that you would make an intermediary, that you would make an independent authority, etc. Where did you say in September that you would give the world's loans to the funds? Where did you say so? Bring me the written one. So you lied. You haven't stopped lying. And it bothers you that I told you Papadopoulos made a law to separate Missina and then voted for him? What else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u807	So you say it again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u808	I'll say it again and I'll say it. It's the only case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u809	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u810	It's the only case. All the other governments were a little embarrassed, they weren't voting for what they had voted for in two days! One was not ashamed, and then you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u811	He didn't have any MPs then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u812	Your record of lies doesn't get over it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u813	Was there a Parliament, Mrs. Vulture, in Judas? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u814	Well, those who would have sent them dala at noon have dictated you and your expressions. They've come and changed your expression. There, in other words, you said "after special consultation" they came to you and said "deploy it and make it after agreement with the institutions". Don't even talk, they won't let you, not move. And because I hear Mr Skourletis telling us things about IPTO - it is not here, of course, because he hears other things - I am presenting you with a communication from your party on your programme of 15 September on privatizations. You said you'd only do nine and the others you avoided them. Take it - please for the Minutes - this is your program. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, what does Mr Skourletis tell us so long that he only deals with IPTO and with anything else, Codjam Minister for Productive Reconstruction and now brings a new resolution on IPTO? You're exhuming IPTO! What did he say? That the energy CECE will not be touched, the energy business is the country's infrastructure. Watch out for the lie: On the 25th of the month the sales of all are announced, there is nothing left. 17% of PPC has 51% of the state, you give it. You give 35% of the ELPEs that the state has. All of it! The whole D.A.P.D., the whole D.C.D. You've left nothing. And Mr. Skourletis dares and talks about non-democracy of energy operations, please? This is - and I'm ending with it - the paper of May 25, 2016, with all your privatizations, and HSDP and PPC. Take it, please, but you'll get it in combination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u815	Mrs. Vulge, we're done, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u816	Wait a minute, Mr. President. On the same day, 25 of the month, when you took off the FEK to privatize PPC, that is to say, under 51% Mr. Skourletis told the Athenian agency "the privatization of the companies in the energy sector is not a priority, nor is there any planning". It's an official announcement. The lie is now an official announcement. Here you go. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please combined, because as you know the historian of the future will have to make a special thesis for the lies SYRIZA - ANEL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u817	Mrs Ahmakopoulou now has the floor, and then Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u818	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the Minister, Mr Tsakaloto, arguing that the additional measures which are coming today to close the negotiations are clarification. It seemed to me that it was mainly addressed to the members of the coalition, of course, whom he wanted to assure by voting - those who have already voted for the bill - that they do not vote for anything which is worse. The essence of all of us, I think, is whether the things that have been voted today are making the situation better or worse, so I say to see one - one. Let's start with the cutter. The amount of the measures to be taken with the cut-off is increased. Why? Because we are now looking at things on a pure and not a mixed basis, that is, after the financial impact on the revenues of the budget has been removed. So we don't get involved in Greek and English in just Greek what does that mean? It means that if the 'cutter' is activated, wages and pensions will be cut further. So this is better or worse? Also, if there is a natural disaster or force majeure so far, what was envisaged is that there will be a consultation of the troika and the institutions, now there has to be an agreement. So is that better or worse? In loans, whatever Mr Tsakalotos says, the new provision extends the cases in which the variable rate can be increased. So, how do borrowers feel? Feel better now or worse? There is a new way of calculating pensions in public pensions. What do retired people say? Is that better for them or worse? Let's also ask those who don't get the Circular that came out today where things are clearer. How do they feel today? Better or worse? The self-employed, who are reducing the one-off, how do they feel? Aren't you really burdening the self-employed? Looks like no, because you know the class mark when the other tie's wearing looks more heavy. Better or worse, then, do the self-employed, who get a lower one? ENVIRONMENT, an additional tax which increases for a category of companies. And because Mr Tsakalotos said that we are constantly talking about predictions, I am leaving aside the predictions made by the HSY today, which says that because VAT is increasing to 24%, companies will start to close down. I leave this, because it's a prediction and I speak with evidence from GEMH, evidence from the Chamber. They closed 15 thousand four hundred thirty-five companies since the beginning of 2016. Now I'm talking about your shift, not about the years we've ruled. This is a 45.87% increase from last year that closed ten thousand five hundred eighty-one business. Congratulations, you have a new record of developing and supporting entrepreneurship! For the first time in the years of the crisis, the balance is negative, that is, more businesses have closed down than they have opened. That's evidence. Reduction in public pensions, I referred to this. So let's go to the special payroll. There you promised that you would legislate equivalently, so these people lived and live with anxiety when you would do that by the end of the year. Has it been restricted or increased their stress now that you have up to 30-09 to decide whether to find equivalent? We'll see about 30-09.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u819	It's limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u820	If you think that with what you've done with special payrolls they feel better, Mr. Comrade, indeed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am ending with IPTO. Mr. Skourletis told us it was better. He's got less time to auction. That's usually worse. Mr. Skourletis is better, but I never understood the way Mr. Skourletis thinks. Of course, the Minister told us that after all this took a new day, a nice day in sunshine. Of course, because these were the night's amendments. Because the amendment you brought today, when the fine day with the sun, was on red loans. And in red loans, what did you do to make people understand? A red line you had left, ladies and gentlemen, that you protected the loans with a first home guarantee of up to EUR 140,000 by the end of 2017 from sale, transfer and management. There goes the exception of management. What does that mean? I'm fine! So from now on they'll sit the so-called "girls", they'll have the management, they'll tear them apart, so that 1-1-2017, bam, they'll be ready! And ask, now, the borrowers if they feel better or worse. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The truth is, after that today, we are all better and worse. You're better off, because you're gonna vote for them and keep your chairs. And worse is the Greek people, who will pay an even bigger account for the lies you have told him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u821	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor now. Although Mrs Christophilopoulou is then in the series, she gives her position for ethical reasons - she told me not to be two of the same party - to Mrs English and she will follow. Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u822	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this tactic of the government continues. We have to vote on extremely critical provisions in the form of amendments to sanctions for agreements, which constantly call for urgency and a suffocating time frame to ensure evaluation. Once again - and I will prove this to you shortly - the government proves to be below the circumstances. I will say in particular, because here we have some amendments. Amendment No 465 is entitled 'Legal improvements'. Why is it entitled 'legislative improvements' an amendment? We have told you from the outset that this is the way you are avoiding the report of consequences. Because it should have a specific impact report. You are calling an entire amendment to 'nominal improvement' and to the report on consequences, of course, says that it is not required, because it is an improvement. It's not an improvement. So let's go to this amendment. For example, in paragraph 1, the issue of family benefits is mentioned. It is, of course, another example that not only reform is not that the insurance law, but it also affects young pensioners. We have, of course, heard Mr Katrugalo among others today - the only thing he did not tell us in his television interview is that the abolition of the CSCE helps - to say and admit that it is not reform what he has done. In paragraph 4, for example, to understand what we are legislating today - a few weeks later, you change the method of calculating the one for the self-employed, so that we have even greater than the planned reduction in the benefit. Instead of 75%, 60%. Within a few weeks we have even greater cuts in the single. At the C.E.S.S.A.? Ninety thousand lose it now and another hundred sixty thousand lose it in 2017. A total of two hundred and fifty thousand people. With regard to this retrospective situation for the ESS where the Prime Minister for the Solidarity Fund has also committed itself, I will tell you that the Minister of Finance, in reply to my question, told me that all buildings in rented facilities and not in private premises - which can go right now - cost him EUR 68 million. I say it because we often look for equivalents and how they will be found. Secondly, the Prime Minister announced a Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund has announced it, but it has not explained how it will succeed. "They" will be found, "will" it! That is what we are talking about in particular. In 2012, the surplus was ensured. If it is achieved, it should go 70% to social actions and 30% to public debt service. Why have you not done so now in negotiating, that is, going to a certain percentage, when we achieve the targets, in specific actions to reduce all these measures, which are unbearable? You did not, and of course there is not all you have made is a theoretical commitment to the Solidarity Fund. Of course, paragraph 12 of this amendment states that it is now stated that the adjustment of the annual replacement rate for the calculation of the share of the Equity Fund will be made by decision of the Board of Directors only and not by decision of the Board of Directors. We put it to you. The rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance put it to you at the start. No answer! The Minister's here. Let's see, will you answer? Why can this board of directors not do so and a man must do so, only the chairman of the board of directors? Is this the process of collectiveism, which we want to achieve? In Amendment No 467, of course, you are making something even more outrageous. You are suspending the imposition or reduction of the maximum level of measures for natural phenomena. For stunts, pests and anything else, we will not be able to proceed with any process, but will only be part of the cutter with the agreement of the institutions. That's what you changed today. You put the assent of the institutions while there was special consultation. Exceptionally, today, a new amendment has been tabled, which transfers tourist properties from the ownership of the EOT to the ownership of the EBRD. In other words, this will clearly lead to the divestment of these tourist property by your decision today and which, of course, you have not justified and cannot be discussed at this level. Finally, we heard the Finance Minister, Mr Chakaloto, referring to red loans. I want to say clearly that he's lying. He probably wanted to convince a number of SYRIZA Members who have at the moment objected, as you have seen from all sides, to the issue of red loans. Under the provisions of Amendment No 469, the management of red loans, with the addition of a first home mortgage, of an objective value of EUR 140,000, can now be entrusted to management companies with non-performing loans from the law's vote and not until 1-1-2017, which was so far provided for as a specific date and to which the framework for their protection expires. The provision exempting loans with a public guarantee from the delegation of management or sale is repealed. They are transferred to the EBRD, as I have told you, the assets of the EBRD and the obligation to submit six-monthly statements and annual balance sheet of the GOI is abolished. If this is not a change of context and a deterioration in the amount of loans and all the issues that I have mentioned, then what is it? Of course, one speaker referred to the oxymospheric issue of the amendment, which you did not accept as tabled by Members of the Democratic Integration and the River, and you are accepting it with its re-election by the SYRIZA Members. In fact, the Minister of National Defence said: 'I change the explanatory statement'. I am talking about the procedure in connection with finding a building for conducting trials. I see, therefore, that the previous explanatory statement said: 'Because the change in use of the Olympic property was carried out without taking into account the provisions of the regulatory plan, the regulation is abolished'. It is what you have always said that this is going to happen. That's what you were saying. And do you know what explanatory statement he came from? The need to find a building for the conduct of trials was covered by consultation of the Minister of Justice with the Minister of National Defence. Why with the Minister of National Defence for the trials? Why this explanatory statement here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u823	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u824	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Tsakalotos has essentially analysed what the institutions say, what the Troika says and what he has just agreed or has not agreed. On the other hand, we had Mrs Chrysovelonis, whom we heard saying that what she brings for vote is a disgrace for an important transport network in Greece, but she is forced to bring it. These are the expressions, as they were recorded. This is the negotiation that has resulted in the dismantling of transport today, and that is what we are voting on here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u825	Please finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u826	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have heard all the ministers a lot longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u827	I didn't leave any Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u828	You're right. I'll be done. As regards, of course, the expression of the Minister of Finance of the public debt, I should just like to say that the November 2012 decision was specific and said ‘time of bond transfer and interest reduction if a primary surplus is achieved’. That is what we asked you to do. You didn't. For both Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsipras, all I have to say is, where were you young enough to show me being someone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u829	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and running, thirty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the Municipal School of Maistros Evros and the 1st Experimental Municipal School of Alexandroupolis. We welcome you to come from this far to Athens and the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As I said before, Mrs Christophilopoulou gives Mrs Inglezi her position. Mrs Christophilopoulou will then speak and Mr Barriotas will follow. Then we'll have Mr. Dimitrios Dimitriadis. Then Mr. Davakis will be speaking for two minutes and Mr. Mada will be closed. Of course, if the Minister wants it, for a few minutes I will give the Minister the floor and we will close the meeting. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u830	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u831	Then, Mr. Brutsi, I will give you the floor. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u832	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the bill, I also said that the measures we have adopted were necessary in order to follow up as a society and an economy in another perspective, different from the one which the previous governments had planned. Developments have quickly deserved us. The Cassandras anticipated, but also sadly hoped that the evaluation would not be closed, were disguised in the most resounding way. The review is closed. The dose, which is very brave, will be disbursed over the next few days and for the first time will not go entirely to the debt well, as was the case with previous governments, but much of it will be channelled into the real economy. The most important thing, of course, is that, for the first time in the negotiations, the debt issue has been put on the table and a road map for its restructuring was drawn up. Today's amendments are simply some necessary technical improvements to the regulations, which were adopted last month. I would like to refer to what the Minister for the Environment and Energy has said today. I consider it a very good opportunity for today's meeting to highlight a subject which, within the many provisions of the bill, did not receive the expression that he deserved, obviously deliberately from Anti-Policy and the media. I refer to the arrangements for "little" PPC and IPTO that refer to memorial laws and indicate that the negotiation can be effective in the interests of the public interest and that it is directly related to the country's development prospects. With these regulations, the government has achieved something, which was neither easy nor given. It annuls the Memorandum of Understandings concerning the creation and sale of PPC by the secondment of 30% of PPC and the sale of 66% of IPTO, the subsidiary of PPC which manages electricity transmission networks. And that, ladies and gentlemen, I will say again, precisely because it bothers some - it is a political victory. It is the victory of a government that is negotiating vigorously to safeguard the public interest. The new provisions guarantee the public character of both PPC and the high-voltage network, held by IPTO, an important policy-making tool in the energy sector. The absolute safeguarding of the majority of the public, together with the complete segregation of PPC, as well as the partnership with a company that manages networks in Europe, is expected to strengthen this development tool, in order to support even more effectively and in the right direction the country's overall effort to exit the country from recession and austerity. The media completely buried these provisions until some technical improvements had to be made to implement them. Then the catastrophe began, that the government was supposed to be forced to privatise IPTO, so carbon the treasure. Once again, however, they have been disproved. IPTO remains by an absolute majority in the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision we have voted on ensures that PPC remains the strong electricity company, but within an environment of burden-sharing and risks. This is contrary to previous governments' plans for the violent liberalisation of the market by the secondment of "small" PPC and its delivery to private individuals on the pretext of balance of competition. The social dimension of the supply of electricity at adequate and low prices can now be effectively supported. The results of this success have already begun to be visible. PPC announced a 15% reduction in its household tariffs for consistent consumers, including consumers who have entered the regulation of thirty-six instalments. Looks like this is the year of disguise. An increase in electricity spread some time ago to destructors. Ladies and gentlemen, we need new public tools for productive reconstruction, with a social commitment to their organisation and operation. The energy market is changing. The Paris climate agreement sets new targets for carbon reduction and an increase in renewable energy sources. The changes that come are important and the solution is not neoliberalism but neither a misguided state of affairs of the past. The solution is the social state, the service of the public interest, social control, respect for the environment and, above all, the protection of the people's strata which have been severely affected by the crisis of capitalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u833	My colleague, Eve Christophilopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u834	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal about disaster by the last colleague. I remember, on 24 May, just after the end of the Eurogroup, something terrible 'lodges' that had come out and said 'the evaluation was closed'. The country's changing page. Starts a new page.’ What are we doing here today? We are voting for a little heavier things to close the evaluation and, as a matter of urgency, with amendments to ratification of a convention. What's the worst way of legislating? Indeed, however, this government in propaganda does not get as much as the instruments that follow it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see together a headline page, the page of the famous government newspaper "SYNEI",...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u835	Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u836	I'd love to read it. On August 24, 2014, it says “accuracy due to VAT 19%. Medicines, PPC, medical services, food, water, tickets, taxi". I can read more if you want, but that's what "SYEW" said when "SGEI" opposed. But to finish with fairy tales with 24% VAT, taxes on fuel, taxes on cigarettes and drinks and on all that Greeks should not do, do you hurt who? The "gainers"? Oh, no. You are hitting the lower layers of income and, of course, you are hitting the middle class, which you are hit in many ways, one of which is insurance. However, we are going to the lowest low levels, which are of interest to us all, and also to the Democratic Incorporation, with the exception that we are also interested in the backbone, which is the middle class, the backbone of democracy, the backbone of development, the one that is most affected by your measures. C.E.L.D. What a lie! What a propaganda! I heard Minister Katrugalo say "It is unnecessarily inappropriate, we do not want it", while before the SYRIZA MPs told us "you know, we put it...". The'red lines' that we put for the group redundancies, for the main pensions and for the ESS had been observed. These few could be, but at least we could, by confronting our right-wing opponent, New Democracy, keep some'red lines'. One of these was the CSCE that we established, like the CSCE, such as the CSCE, like the CSCE, as many things about self-government in that country. Hardouvel's in-depth mail to the Troika, the'red line', which existed, said: 'The government undertakes to redesign the NSCR, taking into account the overall economic and assets situation of the pensioner', that is to say, to streamline what you did not negotiate. You are now abolishing it as a leaf of figuratives in the nakedness of the King Prime Minister - a, a, a sorry, partner of Prime Minister - what are you doing? You say 'no', the current ninety thousand low pensioners of the EKRD who will lose it, lose it as of June 1st to keep the Prime Minister's good and where will these around 70 million be found? They will be charged to the next hundred and sixty thousand low pensioners. Because that's what you're going to vote on. Vote it, then, yes to everything. The following sixty thousand beneficiaries of the CSR will begin to lose the CSR from 1 January 2017 and not from 1 June 2017 as they should. That's what you're doing. That's what you vote on. That's the brave negotiation! That is the protection of low-pensioners and non-retireds! Therefore, a total of two hundred and fifty thousand low pensioners by the end of 2017 will have lost the CSR. Do you want an example? We told insurance, Mr. Minister. Because you're lying other things, and you and the other non-competent ministers. You say that - as a matter of fact - the CSCE will be replaced by the income of social solidarity. How? Four hundred euros and four-member family? It has much more than the ‘rich’ beneficiary of the CSR. At EUR 665, that's where the cutter is now. Then it's going a little lower and lower. Then you say the other story: National pension - says - will replace the ESS. Again lies, because the ESS is an allowance, it's not a pension. Because the criteria for the award of the CSCE are quite different. Because the national pension even to the minimum that could somehow be used in the last portion of the low-pension workers... Minister, please answer me: The beneficiaries of the CSR who take 600 euros, who take 500 euros and lose the CSR and who will not replace it with any national pensions, what are these people? Are they rich? Is it even middle class? So what kind of fairy tales are you telling us about what we're voting on? The numbers say it. These are the figures you put, the amendments you have made, the negotiation that you have made. So enjoy this negotiation. Unfortunately, this negotiation does not please the people. It is a mixture of a non-negotiation and one - I would say - propaganda which breaks bones. We are voting against all these amendments. We believe that, without a overthrow of things, neither growth nor potential for attracting investment nor social cohesion can come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u837	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Constantine Barriotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u838	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to go back one day and start yesterday, if you will allow me, and make a comment on what we have done yesterday in this House, which is why we have all suffered. In a country where "black" political money was and is one of the greatest wounds of public life, what we did yesterday is to play a communication game essentially for the sake of a dubious communication benefit to the substance. While the world goes on to say that there are problems with all political staff, parties and politicians, we have actually chosen to throw a curtain and cover everything. In the victorian morality they covered tables with long tablecloths so that men wouldn’t think wickedly, seeing table feet without interest in the substance. Here, we've gone further. In the well-known saying, "Caesar's wife must be and seem honest," we decide that it is okay that everyone knows that neither is honest, as long as we can change the conversation every time it comes to the fore. I think that we all need to think again now that noise is overshadowed, if the systematic undermining of institutions with comedy like yesterday helps someone, they offer something, or they are actually undermining the city, which we will all find in front of us, is something that the country will find in front of it. Let us talk about accounts, since today has become very fashionable again the word narrative. Mr. Tsakalotos did it, saying that he ends the story of the first phase of the government today. That's true. We are coming to put an end to what Mr. Loverdos said as the "tails" of Tsakalotou, the crosses that were left to complete the famous evaluation. And the account is really complete, and what he says, in my view? It says that there are no'red lines'. They've been forgotten. The government literally gave the lenders land and water. There is nothing pending, discussed or required by creditors in the last five years that has not been signed. Everything was signed in exchange for our dose. So we have ensured our dose, and we celebrate, which is the so-called panacea of the country's problem, and it will bring political stability, he says. I know that these kinds of doses bring euphoria, and euphoria brings hallucinations and some through the hallucinations see the growth that will come, she says, in itself. There is nothing else to be done, growth will come through naive theories of a compressed spring type that will be ejected, for things without any measure! Development doesn't think that's how it's gonna go. So, then, that's the story. Essentially and raw, very cynical, are: a full slogan against staying in power. That is the account that the government is ending today. He remains in power by signing everything, or rather almost everything, because today he will also vote on some things that escaped a week ago. This is perhaps the worst thing for the country and for the government, that we are reaching a point of such unreliability, as I say, where, in order to get the much-considered dose, we must also vote for the signatories. We must vote again on the privatisation of IPTO, not for November, but for October. We have to vote for the EVS again because they have to transfer 38 million from the first half of the year to the second, because that is what is actually happening, but we also have to vote for this in order to get the much-considered dose, precisely because there is no necessary credibility. The government, of course, has found a very nice trick to create a veil behind it that he thinks can be hidden and that is the multiple rhetoric that are supposed to go and address multiple receivers. So Mr. Kammenos usually says that it is unconstitutional what he voted for the previous one. The Undersecretary, like Mr. Spirtzis, says that I'm in pain, but they vote, what are they doing? Mr Dritsa says there is no reason to worry about the privatisation of the ports because it is not going to happen. The Prime Minister has signed, but it doesn't matter. This method may be efficient for the government. We certainly know that it is not at all effective for policy implementation. Basically this way of managing the country's problem cancels the chances of solving anything. No problem will be solved through this conflicting, the continuing contradiction, which essentially refuses to admit that the policy pursued by the government until the day of the takeover of power, but also by September and October, has been a failure. What exists is a complete embarrassment, a strategic gap. There's no vision of how we're going to go. We don't even know where we're going anymore. The government's been trying to survive from day to day. This is the worst way to rule a country in crisis. There's no chance you could get this country out of the crisis. So we will constantly have talk of equivalents, of amendments, of solutions that have been implemented today, but it is doubtful whether they will be implemented tomorrow and so on. We cannot get out of the crisis in this way of non-political, because that is what it is all about. This is how a story is completed - to close - where through the programme of Thessaloniki and the capital controls we reach a complete humiliation not of the government - I repeat - but of the country. Even smaller options are assigned abroad. Everything must be voted on by Parliament to get the dose in advance. Today was connected the famous Waver by Mario Draghi to the implementation of the prerequisites. The issue was not solved, no Waver was given to the Greek banks. And the part of the governance remains void. Daily life continues to deteriorate and the area of production and trade is dissolved every day. That's why we don't hear anything. As I said at first, the only theory that exists is that securing the dose magically will bring growth. But there are no, ladies and gentlemen, magic solutions. We need a plan and a policy that has not been tabled, and that poses huge problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u839	Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u840	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, Minister, there is indeed a cycle of SYRIZA's governance - ANEL with today's day. It closes a circle, which was not done to get a dose, as many people say, nor why we gave up either because we ran away or none of it. It closes the cycle of a 'roadmap' we agreed on, of a political project that we tabled in the light of the Greek people and we took the mandate to complete it. This consists of three main axes: first, an assessment, second, a recapitalisation of banks and, thirdly, a new debt agreement. We did all three. This process was completed a few days ago with the multi-project, which we tabled and made the detailed political debate on all of this. Today we have a set of amendments which simply close a number of issues that have been created as loose ends or as clarifications or clarifications on the issues that have arisen. It also includes, of course, some commitments that we have made and emerged from the juncture. We are always open to what the people say, to the needs that are created and we are trying to answer as far as possible. These concern the NSA and the wage maturities for 2017-2018. It also closes the historic period of the old regime. The New Democracy, in particular, but still PASOK, must find a new strategic ally for its own political account beyond the IMF and the extreme neoliberal ward of lenders. We have lived - and this has been historically recorded and cannot, ladies and gentlemen, change - how the New Democracy, in particular, the Civic Anti-Civilisation, has been identified with the political project of lenders. He served it, filled it up, defended it. It was her last hope until a few days ago that we should not be able to complete the evaluation and therefore complete the 'left parenthesis' scenario. That's over. The last hope of this alliance was given to her by the headlines of a newspaper and was about political money and offshore, where for three to four days she was called - she discovered, of course, the truth - that something is happening in the "king of Danimarky", something is happening with our Government, which in relation to political money is accountable for a number of suspicions. What did he do? We just brought the law we had to bring to an end once and for all in this conversation, she left. Her departure is not only the proud one, that she has nothing to say about all of this, which is the obvious one, but also the fact that her political plan collapsed. He really has nothing to say beyond the newspaper headlines, beyond the channels, that is, whenever, in short, the question of real policy comes to the table. Another point, which had a little hope of our Government retreating, was the issue of IPTO and PPC. The false hope has been created for them that it is very likely that we will back up. We did not do back and the "little" PPC was lifted as a state law and IPTO will be public by a majority, at least 51% in the Greek State. I want to go a little further on the issue of IPTO and PPC, on the energy issue at the end of the day. It is clear that what we will do with energy in our country is strategically important. The fact is that in the last decade the public pillar of energy, which was PPC and the lignites, have been ended up, destroyed, manipulated for the purpose of transporting this public wealth into other pockets. It is precisely our legislative initiative and this fight against lenders in this matter that shows our absolute will to change this relationship. We put the foundations to change it and the landscape to energy will be different in the next period. The new scenery starts from the next day. It is no longer the assessment and regulation of the large picture of the loan. It is the big bet that we have before us and we will do everything - precisely on this point - to succeed and it is the productive reconstruction and the reconstruction of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u841	Before giving the floor to Mr Mada, Mr Davaki, you have asked for the floor for two minutes. As a lacquer, you'll also be a lacquer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u842	Mr President, I thought that the previous ANYTHA, Mr Vitsas, would be more modest and more clear about the issue of special wages. What is demonstrated once again is that, in the context of the dependence of the Independent Greeks on the chairs of the ministerial authority, things are said that do not affect all of us, the civilian staff, who in any case has accepted the insults, rightfully or unfairly, but above all affect the ranks of the active and retired military forces. These executives - listen to me! - they hear - and they hear inside and outside of the country - that we sell camps, we sell defence material, we sell each other in order to pay the special wages and avoid the freezing of wage developments. You understand that all this is unacceptable. I call on Mr Vitsa and Mr Kammenos to present a code from which they will be able to disburse money in order to avoid this. After all, if this had been done, it would not have been necessary to come to this controversial amendment, which after the outcry came and said what they are saying. It is unacceptable and I believe that, at last, we must think above all of those who are protecting our territorial integrity and independence. They're also the ones who left, the retired executives, and the active executives. It's enough for the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u843	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u844	Mr President, following on from what Mr Davakis has said, I would like to denounce the Government for unacceptable, old-fashioned behaviours, which confirm what we have been saying many times: that they are older than the old. I say this in relation to the amendment, which the New Democracy will be voting on today, and it concerns the protection of the coastal arc. It is something that incorporates the terms 'oldenness', 'contrast', 'corodia', 'defraud' and 'fraud' of all the inhabitants and citizens of the southern suburbs. When they brought this provision, the New Democracy as a whole, all the MPs and other parties, stood across. We have tabled an amendment, Mr President-in-Office, which you have not accepted. Other parties have tabled an amendment, which you have not accepted. Today, with perception and practical old-fashionedness, you are bringing an amendment to the signatures of members of the SYRIZA and ANEL to correct your mistake. The New Democracy will vote for it, it will support it, confirming its firm position that we must protect the southern suburbs and the coastal arc. But it is yet another proof, Mr President, that SYRIZANELs, as a conception, function and practice, are older than the old ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u845	Mr. Mada, come on. Finally. "Finally" goes to me, not to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u846	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today it is really a difficult process, a process for those who have experienced it very closely, I think it involves a lot of anxiety, constant effort, a lot of work, conflicts and compromises. Ladies and gentlemen, I can accept any criticism and political controversy of what is happening in public life and what is being done and evolving, of course, in our own governance. Two things, however, I think it cannot be tolerated. The first is that the controversy I think - and I have said this many times before - needs to be done on the real facts and not on manufactured data. This has happened very much in this Chamber, it has been done a great deal and I think it does not really help both the course of the debate and the public debate. It was very characteristic of the confrontation between Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Georgiadis, in relation to what is happening with the debt. I do not think it is right to read the texts in fragmental terms and to point out things which have nothing to do with real content. Not only is it not right, but I think - let me, although I do not use extreme expressions - that it is a misery to compare any procedure of our parliamentary democracy with the junta of Papadopoulos. If you have any other plans, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, if you have any other purposes, if you have other purposes - because I know very well that from where these things have been said there is no naivety or lack of knowledge - I think you are playing a very dangerous game and I call on you to stop it completely. Secondly, there is a nuclear element in the argument, which is constantly repeated all this time, that we are supposed to be and passionately insist on all that we are voting on to keep our chairs. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Opposition, who have ruled the country for too many decades,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u847	Sixty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u848	Mr. Brutsi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u849	Yeah, obviously. We don't have such a bad thing. I'm telling you, honestly. We're not stuck in what you think. Others, unfortunately, for you and fortunately - I say - for the majority of the Greek people, are our aims. It is to change things radically in this country. We will do so, no matter how difficult we go, no matter how hard we compromises, no matter how much we make and we are fully aware that the difficulties do not end here, but they are in front of us. There are too many people living hard yet, but we are not going to do back to what you want from morning to night, things will go worse and worse, so that - says - the situation where we will collapse and resign and hand over to the well-known'specialized hands' of power. It won't pass you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like to tell you one last thing. I avoided making any specific references to the amendments that we are bringing today, because it has already been debated to a very great extent. You know very well that coordinated systemic forces within and outside the country have tried to cancel this last phase. They didn't make it. Someone has also put a new political theory in today's debate, namely that we are a squeeze of lemon worms, which will at some point be thrown at us. What I think we are doing with a constant effort, and what I think we have done at this stage with difficulties, with compromises, with all this, is very important for the next day. We will be judged very strictly, we know that very well. But there is now a very specific perspective. That is what creates both anxiety and expectation - if you like - in many forces of the system that they will be able to tear us down. These are dreams that will continue to exist. They are situations that will continue to live on them. It is a mania that the country will fail, we will fail, to fail this project, which is a difficult project in genuinely suffocating conditions. I'd like to say one more thing. Do not talk easily about the mail Hardouvel. You filed it and you've testified it again. I would just like to remind you - and I will end with this, Mr President - that Hardouvelis mail and this assessment, which has never ended, has had EUR 1,113 000, 000, of budget gaps. This is recorded on page 7 that was deposited today. It also had an incomplete insurance reform, which, according to the second memorandum, would have been accepted by the institutions if it were complete. It wasn't complete. It was also hidden in drawers in a study of the JEP, which would at least be proportionate to its level, comparable to EUR 1.8 billion, the cost, that is, that is, which exists in this latter procedure. This also concerned not three years, but a much shorter period. You know that very well. It was, in other words, EUR 4.4 billion, essentially for just one year. So do not bring it back and bring that back. It is an example that has never ended, because I don't think it's based anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u850	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u851	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u852	What do you want, Minister? What are you going to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u853	Mr President, I would like to make two legal improvements that are realistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u854	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please be brief and submit the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u855	Of course, Mr President, I have it written down. Mr President, in Article 2 of the draft law (initiation of force), the words ‘from its publication in the Official Journal of the Government’ shall be added to the words ‘unless otherwise specified in its individual provisions’. The second legislative improvement is the following: In Amendment Nos 469, 31, 31, and 2.6.2016, firstly, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Amendment No. In accordance with Article 21(2) of the Financial Regulation, any revenue entered in Item 6 0 3 1 of the statement of revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(2) of the Financial Regulation. Secondly, in paragraph 3 of the amendment after the words ‘Article 196,’ the words ‘of Law 4389/2016 (A'94)’ are added. Thirdly, in paragraph 4 of the amendment after the words ‘Article 211’ is added the words ‘of L.4389/2016 (A'94)’. Fourthly, in paragraph 5 of the amendment after the words ‘Article 214’, the words ‘L.4389/2016 (A'94)’ are added. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u856	Please share the legislative improvements to colleagues before the vote. Before I give the floor to the Minister, and I thank him for keeping him in plenary, while there is a Ministerial Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and how the House is organised, twenty students and two educational sessions from the 23rd Eleftherios School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Petropoulou, do you have five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u857	Yes, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u858	I'm sorry about the intervention. I'd like to tell you something for two seconds. A request had been made by Mr Karathanasopoulos for a roll-call vote tomorrow - unless Mr Tsakalotou's silence means that his request is rejected - and, if you like, put yourself on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u859	The request by Mr Karathanasopoulos is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u860	Go ahead, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u861	The Minister for National Defence is, of course, present, Mr Kammenos, and I will not have to interpret his point of view, but he spoke about 5% returning from the real estate of the Ministry of National Defence for the Fund and not for the sale of camps you said, Mr Davakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u862	I didn't talk about camps.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u863	It is very clear. He even talked about objective use for the sale of camps. In fact, you know or should know that this is foreseen as the minimum amount - so we have to see, of course, the minimum return that anyone managing public property must earn from the objective value of real estate. There was therefore no room for misunderstanding as to what Mr Kammenos said about the use of the property in order to meet such needs. I think I'm right because I didn't even need the interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u864	Is it going to happen in three months? I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u865	And, of course, the issue of the amendment introduced by the Members of the SYRIZA and the Greek Independent Party - one can see why he was introduced - it is not an old-fashioned method - it has an entirely different basis. It is explained in the explanatory statement that after consultation of the two relevant ministers, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of National Defence, this need was covered in another way. So, what else did you want him to say? So there was nothing clearer than this wording to understand why our side introduced this amendment. Why do you constantly create impressions? There must be a debate once - and it will be of interest to our people to see a serious debate - about the difficult and serious things that the country is facing. Should we finally - and I am not going to go into characteristic remarks on the behaviour of counterpopulation - decide on what Europe we want if you want to achieve in this stepping-stone, the difficult, with difficulties, or are you sad every time we achieve something? Because every time I hear people say why we achieve what is going on in the process of making rapid use of all the possibilities we have, so that we can halt the disaster that has occurred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u866	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u867	I'll stay, not to develop any more thoughts, just on social security issues. The single one has not been paid for so many years. We are doing so for the first time in a way that is truly fair and effective and efficient for the future. Invite the actual correction made so that for free professionals to go from 75% to 60% as to the rest of the insured. The free professionals in the AIFM have no single one, it is something that will happen in the future. Those who have been single are only gasers, who have not had any resources for years and have stopped giving any resource, are bakers, who no longer take the flour's resource and give nothing. Who are you crying for? What's the problem of abolishing the rate? What is really possible - and the scientists, scientists, lawyers and engineers must see - is what we have told them from January yet to build a professional fund to settle their own issues, how they want to give the one. Unfortunately, instead of listening and sitting, as lawyers, who have the potential or should have the opportunity to give a solution to this, strikes are continuing incomplete and without any prospect of solving problems in this sector. So there is a one-off prospect for them too, through this perspective, that the government has indicated and I am, of course, at the disposal of all those who are interested in contributing to this goal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u868	Mr President, may I say something about this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u869	Don't open up for me and start asking for the floor after you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u870	What am I supposed to do? I did not speak to Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u871	Only if the Minister says yes, say something about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u872	Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u873	These are matters which have been raised and I think I must respond. I think I answer very briefly and briefly. Otherwise it will appear that this is the case, as it is said. The question has also been raised - and I conclude with this answer at the time, Mr President - because the President of the EMI decides the rate of replacement at the beginning of the 15th day of each year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u874	When did he get in?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u875	It was placed on the side of a wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u876	It's not just about your side. They have other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u877	Emphasis was placed on Mr. Theocharopoulos, in a very intense and specific way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u878	Don't look at Mr. Brutsi all the time. You're looking at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u879	He's a predecessor, that's why. I have to tell you - first of all, I told my previous position - that the Equity Fund for Civilian Workers, as you know, was a service of the Ministry of Finance at first. It is not foreign to the structure of such a function. The definitions of the parameters to be taken into account for determining the share of the Equity Fund are binding within the law. It's time for someone to decide in the fortnight. It is, of course, checked for its decision whether it has complied with the parameters. It is a very procedural matter, to raise such a fuss, if the board would decide to give the dividend to the level that the study itself will have to end up, which should be preceded by a determination. It is not possible to raise issues and dust around such procedural issues, since control is always exercised by the board of directors, which, of course, exists and can control everyone's actions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u880	Does the Minister give me the right to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u881	Let me tell you something, like older than I see, in here. You know, when we talk about wages, single and pensions, we don't have to fight in here. The retired person himself, the wager or the one who expects to take the one will understand after one, two months which side is true. There's no reason to fight. It's one of those things we don't have to fight to hear from the people. The people understand that alone if she or the other side are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u882	I'm not gonna fight, I'm just gonna make a good intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u883	Please. I'm going to appeal to you, Mr. Brutsi, to finish, because from 17.00 p.m. I got the responsibility of finishing at 18.00 p.m., but it's 18.50 p.m. In appeal only a statement, not a statement, would like Mr Karathanasopoulos to do, which I understand is what he is. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u884	It's not a placement. Mr President, we have made a proposal to the government. In other words, we gave her a fig sheet to postpone the vote on Amendment No 449. Why? Because, while he signed it on 1 June, he tabled it today at 14.15, so that there is no possibility of a roll-call vote. We asked her to do so tomorrow so that there could be a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u885	I was here, too. I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u886	The government refused. It has therefore been completely revealed. It merits coup d'état, in any way, means and methodically the logic of 'the purpose justifies the means'. In other words, how to satisfy the lenders and the capital to which they give land and water.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u887	No placement, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u888	From this point of view, we will not legitimise this process. We're denounced. We therefore abstain from the voting process and call on the working class and the popular strata not to waste time. The only weapon left to them is organizing the struggle for total ruptures and overthrows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u889	Not only in the vote on the amendment, but in total. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u890	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u891	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u892	A word on the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u893	Here, don't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u894	Mr President, I had made a proposal this morning, whose reasoning the President of Parliament accepted, on the vote in the whole of the draft law to take place, as the Rules of Procedure stipulate tomorrow. The President accepted that this is what the Rules of Procedure stipulate, but it is an urgent procedure. In fact, he said that from 2010 to 2014 the House applied this method, on our own initiative twenty-times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u895	Good. Which is what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u896	This government has gone through the same instrument at sixteen months thirty-two. We did a statistic. We, in this process, that is to say on the whole, will not be left in the Chamber. We're leaving. We are, however, normally involved in the rest of the process at the outset and in the articles, stressing what Mr Theocharopoulos also said, that the request of the Communist Party of Greece is very reasonable. An amendment was tabled at the last minute and the request for a roll-call vote that will take place tomorrow makes sense. We therefore underline the correctness of this position, we endorse this argument. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u897	Mr. Loverdo, will you leave to the end when it is voting time on the whole, or like Mr. Karathanasopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u898	Just like you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u899	Good, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u900	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u901	No, Mr. Davaki, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u902	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u903	What ten seconds? About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u904	Mr. Petropoulos referred to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u905	Okay, he didn't make any insulting references.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u906	One answer. I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u907	Mr. Davakis, please very much. Don't embarrass me. He didn't make any insulting references.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u908	I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u909	There you go. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u910	Mr. Petropoulos, the Minister of Labour, referred to the camps. Legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u911	Don't go into it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u912	Legislation says everything that comes out of the sale of camps goes to the public fund and to the military equity funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u913	Good. You said that in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u914	There's no sale. Nothing is for sale.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u915	Exploitation. Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u916	Well, now and ex-boyfriend, please calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kammenos, listen, I will also tell you that as an old one. Do you think the special payroll uniforms are comfortable when we only deal with them in the House in relation to all the other categories of special payrolls?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u917	There are no uniforms. There are executives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u918	They don't feel comfortable because the uniforms are proud. This debate must be held in low tones and not handle either their ESS doctors or the judges to say that we are only interested in the uniforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u919	Don't give them uniforms. It's the wrong expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u920	Good, wrong. We all understand what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u921	Don't refer to uniforms. The nurses are also in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u922	It's not like you call it. Apart from the fact that there are military nurses. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and the entire draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is being declared a final one: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the Status of their Forces". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u923	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u924	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u925	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u926	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u927	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u928	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u929	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u930	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u931	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the Status of their Forces’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u932	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and the entire draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Arab Republic of Egypt". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u933	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u934	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u937	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u938	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u939	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u940	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u941	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Arab Republic of Egypt" was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle and on the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u942	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Programme Arrangement" No. A -1424 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ireland and the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u943	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u944	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u946	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u947	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u948	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u949	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u950	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u951	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Structuring the Programmatic Agreement (Programme Arrangement)’. A -1424 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Ireland and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u952	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u953	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u955	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u956	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u957	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u958	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u959	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u960	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 465 and a special number 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u961	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u962	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u965	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u967	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u969	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 465 and a special 27 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under general number 466 and a special number 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u970	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u974	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u976	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u977	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u978	The amendment, by a general number of 466 and a special 28, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Can the amendment be accepted by a general number 467 and a special 29 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u979	Mr President, there are two speeches with the legislative improvements made by Mrs Chryssovelloni. Mrs Chryssovelloni has no legislative initiative. How has he filed interventions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u980	Our interventions are ours. It's our signature. Mr. Chakalotos analyzed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u981	You haven't. There are no signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u982	As far as the services are concerned, because I was not in the Bureau at that time, the Minister accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u983	Is that practical?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u984	Yeah, and the moment the minister accepts them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u985	This is not the case, but, in any case, we are not going to stand on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u986	You're right, first of all, I'm just being informed by the Services. The House therefore asks: is the amendment accepted under a general number 467 and a special number 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u987	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u990	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u991	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u992	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u993	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u995	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 467 and a specialist of 29 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 468 and a special 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u996	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u997	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u998	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1000	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1001	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1002	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1004	The amendment, by a general figure of 468 and a specialist of 30, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 469 and a special number 31, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1005	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1006	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1007	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1008	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1009	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1011	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1013	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 469 and a special 31 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. The next amendment with a general number 458 and a special 24 relates to the extension of a merger of FODs in the regional FODs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1014	That is the amendment tabled by the Members. Balaura and Bagonakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1015	That's right. It is the same amendment as the amendment with a general number of 456 and a special number of 23. Since 456 was late, the other had been filed as a time-consuming. It is the same amendment. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 458 and a special 24?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1016	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1018	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1019	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1020	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1022	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1023	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1024	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 458 and a special 24 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 471 and a special number 33?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1025	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1026	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1028	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1029	The Communist Party of Greece is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1030	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1031	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1032	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1033	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 471 and a special 33 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1034	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1035	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1036	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1037	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1039	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1040	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1041	The office of President, as amended by a majority, was granted. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Structuring the Programmatic Agreement (Programme Arrangement). A -2124 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of Ireland and of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1042	The Democratic Compact PASOK - DIMAR will depart, as the Communist Party of Greece has left. [[At this point Members of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR leave the Chamber]] Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1043	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1046	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR and the Communist Party of Greece are absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1048	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1049	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1050	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Structuring the Programmatic Agreement (Programme Arrangement). A -2124 [MIOS] between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of Ireland and the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1051	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1052	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I wish you a good trip to the regional colleagues and a good weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-02-S1-commons.u1053	With the consent of the House at 19.07 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 3 June 2016, at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
