ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's consent from 20-10-2016, the minutes of its IMI's PRACTICE sessions, Thursday 20 October 2016, with regard to the resolution as a whole: "Social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how it is organised, thirty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 8th School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House on Monday 24 October 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 112/17-10-2016 topical question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the “murdering gang attack against the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs - NLFK - ATHI Thessaloniki”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 131/17-10-2016 of the Greek National Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals". 3. The Question No 96/14-10-2016 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece. 4. The question by No 127/18-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, concerning the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. 5. Mr Anastasios Megloumoustakas Anastasios Megloumouskas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the degraded situation in the hospitality of Serres Prefecture. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 113/17-10-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Grassaki, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the question and concern about ELSTAT's data, on the country's demographics and especially Evros. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 132/17-10-2016 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the repatriation of mercury waste from Aspropyrgos to Germany. 3. The question by No 87/12-10-2016 of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the delimitation of the archaeological sites of Veroia. 4. The Question No 61/10-10-2016 by MP Pireas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the calculation of the main pensions of the Naval Apartmental Fund (NAT). 5. The question by No 44/10-2016 of the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the submissiveness of the Directorate of Police of Serres. 6. The question by No 66/10-10-2016 of MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the request to cover the empty organic positions of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the "displacement of 36,769 Greek children from nursery stations". 8. The 85/11-10-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Health about the problems of operating the anti-cancer Hospital "Theagenio" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I will announce the questions which will be postponed for different reasons each. The second under number 110/17-10-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy, Nicholas Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on government promises to the only fertiliser industry in Greece, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr Katrugalos abroad. The third, with number 117/17-10-2016, a top-stage question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the 'Training' sale of TRAINOSE in relation to the incomplete price of EUR 45 million, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister responsible, Mr. Tsakalotou. The sixth question under number 122-18-10-2016 for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the Tram and Metro projects in Piraeus, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister responsible, Mr. Spirtzi. The second question under number 111/17-10-2016 of the new Republic MP Kilkis, Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the initiation of the procedure for the privatisation of the Egnatia Road SA, the concession of the road network and the issues arising, due to a workload of the Minister responsible, Mr. Spirtzi. The seventh question under number 123/18-10-2016 for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Pireaus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the treatment of the interference in the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama, Korydalou, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Rendi, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis, with the cause of a meeting with the Institutions. Elena Zaroulia to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the "reduction of national sovereign justice through ratification of the CETA Agreement between Canada and the EU", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible Mr Stathakis, with the cause of a meeting with the Institutions. The eighteenth under number 69/10-10-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the proposal - "resurrection" for red loans, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis, with the cause of a meeting with the Institutions. The first, with number 121/18-10-2016, is a topical question by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theophrektos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the recruitment of workers at the lignite unit "PTOLEMAIDA V" with transparent criteria from the OAED registers, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Skourletis, as he is in an interministerial meeting. The seventh under number 119/18-10-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Independent MEP II Athens Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in medical devices that endanger the health and life of patients, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister Mr. Polakis. The nineteenth under number 26/3-10-2016 topical question by Independent MEP Lakonias Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System.), it will not be discussed as a result of a workload of the relevant Deputy Minister, Mr Polakis. The thirteenth question under number 79/11-10-2016 on the refurbishment of the Z Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the renewal of the Rema Picrodafni in Attica, will not be discussed due to the fact that the Minister responsible, Mr. Tsironis, will be outside Athens. The tenth under number 63/10-10-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Emmanuel Konsolas to the Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs, on the revocation of Rhodes from the cancellation of the establishment of the Department of Tourism, based in Rhodes and English-speaking sections of tourism studies aimed at foreign students with tuition fees, will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Deputy Minister. However, the fourteen will be discussed from twenty-five. Break the pomegranate because we've been over 50% of the scheduled questions! And hopefully it's a little different. However, it is a request, because there are fourteen questions, that Members and ministers should be consistent in time, because, as you can see, it will take at least three hours to ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u3	What do you want, Mrs. Zaroulia?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u4	To protest that once again Mr Stathakis does not come and answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u5	It's the same question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u6	It's the same question as last Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u7	Not on the substance. You have the floor for a minute for your protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u8	I am not going to get in on the substance, because we talked about it. I just want it to be understood to the Greek people that this government is making decisions in its absence. Since last Friday there has been a committee on TTIP and on CETA. He said Mr Voutsis - I have it and I will put it down in the Minutes - that it will be discussed after a celebration. They're making decisions in the absence of the Greek people. And he will not come to discuss with an increased majority, as I requested. And not only did I ask, I've already established it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u9	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u10	This complaint I want to make. He does what he wants and does not take into account the interest of the Greek people at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u11	They've been recorded in the Minutes. And it has also been sent for the reason of the absence of the Ministers concerned, the letter - as it sends from the Secretary of Government, Mr Kaloger. It mentions the reasons as the services write. The fourth question will be discussed under No 116/17-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the withdrawal of a ministerial decision to abolish the right to grant the one-off staff to the hotel staff in the 20-year period. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that with the forthcoming redrafting that things will be corrected a little by the presence of the Ministers. Today, however, we have specific questions. My question to the Minister of Labour concerns hotel officials. As we all know, tourism has been detained in recent years and is probably also growing and because of the events in the neighbouring countries that have essentially shut down tourist destinations. Greece is at this juncture won. Contrary to the fact that we have an increase in tourism, an increase in revenue, what hotel staff pays are unfortunately disproportionate and negative. On the basis of Mr Katrugalou's famous insurance law 4387, the Government decided to further reduce the one-off provision of hotel staff by 20% and, of course, a significant change - not to be given by the completion of the 20-year period rather than by retirement. As we know, the work of the hotel staff has a great deal of peculiarity. It's seasonal. They're mostly in the summer months. And this particular feature has led the then Minister for Labour, Mr Miltiades Papaioannou, to suggest and maintain this special arrangement that you should review. Our question is: Do you intend to review these two decisions concerning the one-off provision for hotel staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, the document you are referring to is a resolution of disagreement between the government commissioner and the board of directors of the TAPIT - it is not a ministerial decision to revoke - and it was about the purpose of the National Accounting Authority issuing that framework which would finally allow for the granting of a one-off staff to hotel officials. Every insured person - like the rest of the country's employees - has to receive one-off from 1-9/93 and then a large number of beneficiaries have accumulated, who cannot be satisfied very soon because of this large and sloppy accumulation of applications from the past. Let me tell you that for the TIPIT, especially for the hotel staff, about two thousand thirty-seven people are entitled to a single pension, and so many of them are due to the completion of 20 years. The question you are referring to has two aspects first. Based on what I said that people should quickly get the one because they have a wait for over three years already to get what you're saying. I mean, they've grown by three years of age. The second is to see what conditions will have to be met as a whole in a perspective of sustainable development in this single sector. The conditions which exist and which really concern me, when we say a hundred and eighty months of real, continuous, integrated employment, which is one condition, according to that sector, we are talking for fifteen years of full employment. Such employment is limited to those working in large hotel complexes that lasting, annually. And they have to complete 20 years of real employment in the occupation with at least a hundred days of employment for each of these twenty years. For the part you say and you are interested, and I understand that that is where we must give special interest to all of us, it is the parties of those workers in this sector who do not have the chance to have full employment in these unemployment situations. There, if we look at things, it will come to the conclusion that the 20-year-old employment situation in the profession, as a rule, was not fulfilled by this category of people who were not full-time and who were close to the age limit. So we need to see an explanation on this - and I am ending up in my dentistry. The great cumulation of applications in 2013 is due to the fact that in 2012, on the government of that year, with Law 4093/2012, there was a very large reduction in one-off and the world scared and went to get the one soon, so there was so much cumulation. Otherwise it did not contribute to anyone, nor then to prematurely take the single one, because as he sat there was a surcharge, which was up to 30% in the end. Those great reductions led the world to it. Mr President, I will then reply so that I do not abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, my Mr Petropoulos is very fond of me and only of the fact that he comes to Parliament and answers the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u17	And his attendant, Mr. Toscas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u18	However, the answers he gave concern questions rather of journalists, which were made out before, and not my questions. I did not ask why there is one or two years' delay in paying the one. We've analyzed it and we know it. I asked why the possibility of supplementing the 20-year-old is being abolished. Why is there a further 20% reduction? Already 22% had been reduced and 20% decreased further. And the answers given are entirely for different questions. But I was surprised, Minister, that you went to put back - as you do - a division between the workers and to tell those who work for eight months against those who work for six and eleven. That's wrong. You do so in other cases and you think that by splitting society you will be able to rule. You're wrong. These turn back on society itself and above all on those who attempt to do so. I want you to make that clear, and I hope you do so with the answer, which you have indirectly given that since some people take not twenty, but at thirty or thirty-two, I take them all to retirement. Instead of saying that I am reducing twenty years and I am doing 15 - which would be a fair solution, after you have made such a statement, it would be fair, that is to say, to reduce twenty years and take them to fifteen - you say that I take them all to retirement. And what pension is there for those who will not fill in the years, for those who do not have the upper age limit? So, then, we need to see whether there is the possibility of renegotiation - and that is the question - you can tell me that this is what you have agreed with the institutions, as you say them - that you also raise this issue again and say 'here we have made a mistake, this very burdensome category of workers, who have no work all year round and who has a particular problem should be given special treatment'. Besides, the Ministry of Labour recognises this particular treatment for both the unemployment benefit and treats them differently. Therefore, you should tell us whether you intend to put the matter back as a Ministry of Labour in a possible negotiation or whether it is a national decision, tell us if you intend to decide otherwise. What are both of them? To be clear to the world. It can't be secretly the issues that have to do with negotiation and secretly the issues that have to do with people, families and especially with a charge that is, as we told you, filled with peculiarities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. In no case do I seek to divide workers against the unemployed or semi-employed. All these phenomena are equally treated with the same heat and I don't want them to exist. It is the one part of 'black' and undeclared work in many cases. However, this is a real problem of periodic seasonal employment, because this is the sector in much of it. I hope that this place will be diminished and that we have tourism throughout the year, and in that direction we must move on to get everyone to work. But, Mr Kegeroglu, if we go to a sense of doing twenty-five years, I would like to tell you what this means with a rough weighting that the services have done because of your question. And I want to tell you that I, too, have asked what age those who have taken in twenty years and their application is now pending. They told me that the older man is forty - seven years old and most are forty - five years old. They are the ones who will receive one single with the previous provisions. If we go to the fifteen years that you're talking about, does that mean they'll get when? When will she be forty or thirty-five? I do not think it should be that purpose, and I do not think that you too want such a result for the one-off payment. The single one must strengthen, because it has a socio-security character. Not as much as the principal pension or less, but it is socio-security and we must, in such a way, see how it is managed. Of course, I am not ignoring the problems that exist for a significant part of the workers in this sector, who are in conditions of unemployment and serious difficulties in the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u21	It is the majority of the industry, however, this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u22	Let it be completed, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u23	We've weighed it, Mr. Katsotis. There is certainly a large part that is affected by the economic situation and it is a matter of interest to see how we deal with it, perhaps in conjunction with a number of measures that we could consider. I have said - because I have accepted both the Federation and the whole workforce and have discussed with them in a very good climate - that at the moment we have about four thousand outstanding cases. I have given priority so that they can be served quickly and I hope that they will be served within the next period, in 2017, let us enter a little bit in 2018, because they are too many applications. We also need to see in this period of real and sincere interest what it is, what might differentiate the case in relation to the circumstances in this sector. But I insist that our aim should be employment, because it does not help them to get a single one in twenty years, because then it has such a reduction. The purpose must be common. Trying to have work, to have insurance and to get even bigger ones, despite the fact that by force of the threat of reduction, which was at their head in 2012, on your own government, Mr Kegeroglu, it was then the great reduction that occurred - they were scary and all gone away. It is not intended to leave, it is intended for people to work and take to the advantage of the benefits they can get. And the longer they stay at work, the longer they get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u25	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu, I know he threw your head off and you want to answer. Come on, thirty seconds, I'm not putting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u26	Sometimes I won't go to the barbershop, I'll come here to hear such things. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u27	We move on to the debate of the sixth Question No 124/18-10-2016 on the need to save the businesses and professions of the insured OAU who have chronic insurance, debts and the need to review the amount of the fine imposed on every undeclared worker. The Minister will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Red has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately the backbone of our national economy, traders and free traders, have paid the bride in this country because of the severe economic crisis. They are now thousands of debtors to the SNE insurance body. There are thousands of them who cannot meet their basic obligations to get medical treatment. There are thousands of them who, while they have never been provided with medical care, are, however, entitled to that amount unjustly from the fund. Also, there are several who are consistent with their obligations and must be rewarded and there must be no separation between the batters and the consequent debtors. Finally, there is the question of undeclared work. Undeclared work must be fought for sure. However, the fine of EUR 10,500 is destructive and unrealistic. A fine of EUR 3 000 and with the obligation of the employer - the offender - to insure him, at least for a year - will probably be the best solution. In view of this, you ask: as regards the recapitalisation of debts, the freezing of debts, if there is such a thought for the thousands of traders, the small traders. Secondly, if there is thought of an incentive for the debtors concerned. Thirdly, if there is thought of the fine, the exorbitant, the EUR 10,500 in undeclared work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kokalis, it is a matter of particular concern to the government, it has made statements and announcements and the Prime Minister of the country, because it is a huge problem in the backbone of the economy, which is indeed the largest number of employees after the dependent workers. They are small and medium-sized professionals who have accumulated liabilities after 2009, about 68.4% of their total debt to the Free Professional Insurance Agency. Things are difficult, too, in the EBRD, the self-employed - doctors, lawyers, engineers. There is - to a lesser extent - and in the OGA, there is a total of all levels of the economy, but in particular, there is in the OAU and, secondly, in the EAFRD. That is why we have taken measures and we have been doing extensive studies, scientifically and documented, to see a way of approaching faithfully the financial potential of debtors to pay debts and to work out such programmes, which I think we will be able to implement from 2017 onwards, so that these people can not carry a horrific one from the past, so that they can slowly serve it to get their pensions. But the issue of medical care is covered by the government. They are all those living in the country now with medical and pharmaceutical care and, therefore, with regard to this serious health issue, the government has taken those measures, which it should take, against the people suffering. For undeclared and "black" work, tax evasion in particular, a project has already been installed and has been implemented since this month in the Labour Inspectorate. In accordance with this system, the statements which each undertaking can make on employment are immediate, in a time of immediate urgency. There is therefore the possibility for businesses to declare employment and not to give rise to any fraudulent or non-prohibited employment, for which, when they are arrested, this large fine of EUR 10 500 is on them. However, since it is not because of technical reasons - because there are also such cases, which are now technical reasons for eliminating the new system - I call on everyone not to hide work and to declare it, rather than saying that you are extinguishing 10,500 euros. You are right to raise the question that 10 500 euros end up being unresolved. We're dealing with this, we're studying it. But we need to come up with a way that leads to better results. With the additional measures, which we will take to escape in conjunction with the system in place in the EIA, I believe we will have better results and see in this context the problem of this fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u32	Minister, there certainly must be no undeclared work, but in the case of pending cases it is impossible to collect those amounts. That's the first. The second, which was protology, is that there is the demand, the perfectly logical one, - there is no more reasonable - someone who bases a pension right and has a due debt, to exchange the debt with the insurance year. So the fund will be collected and man will be retired, even in part, to finally function the concept of settling. Isn't that perfectly reasonable? And it is also a constant request for the federation of merchants to exchange the insurance time - the merchants themselves say it - with their due debt. If this is not the case, the fund will not receive any money, nor will the professional will be retired, even a simple set-off, accept it. Part of it? Part of it. Quarterly? Branches. But it's done. There is no point in doing nothing because neither the fund will receive the money nor the professional will receive any part of the pension. I think that you fully understand the problems of traders and your Ministry will go ahead - it has to do with negotiating, of course - to resolve this chronic problem. There are too many of them who have been retired and owed, and at the moment neither the fund receives nor is the trader retired. So who wins? Nobody. Finally, simple reasoning should be applied in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u34	With regard to this part, Mr Kokalis, and the previous one, which you have raised on debt relief, health contributions, I would like to draw your attention from the point of view of this: there is a risk that if we are going through a general and specific measure, we will abolish compulsory and universal insurance, which is a basic rule for social security in this system, which is really one of the few remaining in life in the system in general. We must protect it, because there is a risk that everyone will say that 'all right, I want ten years. Give me a pension for ten years, and the other one will say "I want 15. Give me 15. I will not be insured for the rest." The universal, general and compulsory nature of social security is lost in this way. I will not, however, disagree with what you say, that there are, in the meantime, a number of insured persons who will never be retired on account of this crisis. We, for this period of time, have the mood, we are investigating and we are interested in seeking solutions to this problem, which can lead to what you are talking about. I've mentioned it in my public statements too. I am referring to the case - it is not entirely certain that we will end up there - someone to get for less years of insurance, since he has not paid for someone. What these are, is a technical issue that we will see and has to do with the general perception that we have to go through in society - that is, what will happen when someone has paid thirty years. There are also cases that have thirty-five years of insurance cover and are missing in the next few years, which have continued to work and never retired, even though they are insured for thirty-five years and forty-five years. These are outrageous and negative results of a degraded situation in the economy, a huge crisis, which is also humanitarian. In this part of the humanitarian crisis, we must intervene and take action in these cases. We can't leave this world like this. I am fully aware of what I am saying, that people who have definitely been covered and, at thirty-five years, cannot afford to be given the opportunity to retire. We are going to erase the rest, since with thirty-five years they could get at all sixty-seven years of age - that is the other criterion. We must take measures in this respect. It's certain. However, I am telling you that we are always dealing with the protection of social security, as regards the basic and fundamental characteristics, which are universality, which means that all the insured and the compulsory nature are covered, which means that no one is evading. These are our criteria and this framework, in fact, simple logic will find space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u35	We're moving on to the next question. It is the fourteenth under number 80/11-10-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the analogues of the Greek Police. He'll answer, as I said, Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Thank you for coming, to discuss an extremely serious matter within parliamentary control. For good reasons in common, I will not analyse everything now. They do not need to be recorded in the House, because it is a sensitive issue. What we have to say is that ten years have passed the use of TETRA digital systems, which we have had to take with delegation and extremely expensive -90, 100, 200, 230 million euros - for the 2004 Olympiad. My friend, Vassilis, left to tell him that the barber was PASOK, who gave up on us. Is that right? It wasn't us. Then Mr. Karamanlis' government paid for the haircut. He sent us all to haircut Mr. Kegeroglu's PASOK, but anyway. We gave EUR 240 million and after the ten-year contract we did not succeed - I imagine you will tell us about the negotiations - to continue with the use of digital systems. There have been some problems of communication, overlapping with the analogs, which we are now using. I'll come to my dentistry on some other issues. Please, Minister, let us know why the contract was not continued or how the negotiations with TETRA went on the digital track, and when the Greek Police intends to bring a digital system and not proportional, which has many problems of communication and security for police and civilians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, Mr Kammene, let's put things in a row, let's see why this system, which had been established since the Olympic Games, since 2004, has not gone ahead, the digital communications system of the police, the well-known TETRA, the contract of which ended in July 2014, From there on December 2014, election eves, a proposal was made by another company, "SEPURA" is said to offer the Greek public of a corresponding digital communication system for the police, which was available free of charge for the system's trunk - I stress this, because you know, free of charge in this world does not exist - and the maintenance of the system would be free for a year. So obviously the company would benefit from the maintenance of the system then. It was, therefore, signed in December 2014 by the then Minister of Finance and at the recommendation of the Minister of Civil Protection, this convention and the implementation of the system. It was about Attica. Fifty base stations have been installed, fifty antennas, say, and there is a coverage percentage of the Attica region, namely Athens-Piraeus, suburbs, plus Aegina, plus Salamina, with a percentage radio coverage around 95% by 98%. From there on, we proceed to the certification of the system. Indeed, before me, before me, the activation of the system would immediately take place. I think it was a hasty statement, because from December to March, which had been made, this system could not be implemented. At the moment the committees have been set up at a time when the system is being accepted quantitatively. Subsequently, the qualitative receipt of the system and the costing of the system, as provided for in the contract signed, as I said, in December 2014. Right now what do we do? Quantitative acceptance is pending and the cost is charged. In order to reduce the total cost, because you understand that we are trying in difficult times to reduce the requirements of the company, because, as I said, the trunk of the system was free, from there on, the company looks forward to maintenance and looks forward to the transponders, the radios. We, because we do not have the 4 000 000 000 to give at the moment for transponders, have purchased new value accumulators of around 80,000 euros in order to use the old transponders in an intermediate phase and until we find the money to modernise the whole system and at the same time we have ensured that the system is parametered and that the encryption keys are provided by the company, as is again required by the company, to ensure the encryption, that is, the confidentiality of the system, which is actually not guaranteed with the analogue receivers, the analogue system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u39	The rest in dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u40	Yes, I'll continue later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u41	Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. I think your statement today and the news you give us are positive. I don't have anything to add. For good reasons, as I said before, we do not need to discuss much and I do not need to discuss all the details in the communications security of the security forces, the police and the others at the Ministry. I would just like you to commit to a briefing to Parliament and to me because I, too, had some issues from your colleagues at the Ministry, when the convention goes ahead, move on to reception, opens up the network, closes any holes in the coverage, coating or unsafe completely, 100% if you want, communication, communicate it, both for the security bodies and for the citizen. Because the citizen reads and listens to a lot of or a lot of papers in the press, electronics and forms and concerns. I do not want - and you will forgive me for the expression of what I am about to say - to plunder, but there are policemen who communicate with each other on the mobile, for reasons of service, which is not good for this House, nor for the police, nor for the image of this House to the citizen. I'm hanging up here. Please inform us immediately when we will be received and what will be done in the other major urban centers, such as Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion, or where we have tourism and possibly violence, or where we need immediate communication to intervene with the police, or on our islands that we now have and the hot spots. So we'd like you to tell us when the system is going to come out, give us a timeline outside Attica. If we need to be co-government and as Independent Greeks and I personally have to intervene, find funds, help to spread and go to the final system, so that there is security of communications for citizens' safety, let us know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u43	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u44	Mr Kammenos, first of all, I should like to make it clear that the system should have been modernised before the end of July 2014, and that is obvious. But I continue with what you have said. I believe that within a quarter, the procedure I have said - quantitative, qualitative, costing - will have to be completed if the committees do not find any problem, because I cannot anticipate what each committee will find. Therefore, within this period, I believe that the system will have been activated, if everything is going well in committee research. It also burns us and we have the agony to activate the system, because we are actually using a proportionate system. They often use mobile helpers in some cases. As you can see, this cannot go on. Unfortunately, it's a situation that we found. We are trying to speed up, but while respecting all the rules. We will not proceed with the extension of the system unless we see that this system is working satisfactorily in Attica. It would be irresponsible to proceed with the expansion of the system, as proposed by the company. I personally said "no, if we do not see how the system works in Attica and if we are not satisfied with the integrity of the system". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u45	We are now entering a circle of three questions to which the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will answer Mr. Paradise. The fifth will be discussed under number 125/18-10-2016, a top-level question by MP IV of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the intervention of civil justice in the trade union movement by the decision of the Monomele of the First Chamber of Athens, canceling the 29th Congress of the Athens Labour Centre (May 2016). Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, these days, justice is on the news and today we have a question that shows whether or not justice is independent and who serves with its decisions. The debate is about the raw intervention, Minister, of the trade union movement, which took place a few days ago by the Athens Monomeli Court of First Instance. Judge Mitsopoulou Stamatia with her decision under number 5547/2016 suspended the execution of the decisions of the 29th Congress of the Athens Labour Centre, including, of course, the election of management bodies. The bodies of the Athens Labour Centre, as well as the Court itself, decided not to participate representatives of the Association: ‘ALPHA BANK’ staff association at the EAEC Conference, because there was a clear violation of the provisions of the Statute of the EAEC in the election of its representatives. He showed voters for the Athens Labour Center from all over Greece, and even without the necessary legal documents. Having the backs of bankers and state, he refused to present any information for the voters he had presented. The ‘ALPHA BANK’ staff association has lodged an application for interim measures, which the court has accepted, with the impossibility of not providing for the exclusion of representatives due to irregularities in the antiquities that have given them. The Statute of the EMCDDA expressly provides, Minister, in Article 7: "In order to participate in the conference, the organisation must have sent all the certificates of representation five days before the start of the conference." This infamous decision - we will also be tabling the Statute of the EPC in the Minutes for history - on behalf of the employer and the government is paving the way for full direct control of the trade unions by the state and employers. What's going on in practice? The trade unions are not entitled to control and legitimise the representatives of their antiquities on the basis of their statutes, with the claim, in other words, that the only person responsible for judging the validity of the trade union procedures is justice. This leads the trade unions, especially the secondary trade unions, to make decisions not at their general assemblies and conferences, but at courts, which will also define administrations. That's the decision. This development is not taking place at random, but at a time when the government is aiming at hitting labour-union freedoms and rights, which is preparing a new cycle of attack on the working class, through the labour law. It turns out once again that civil justice is exploited by magnanimity and the government, who want a movement completely manipulated, which does not question the capital's strategy for exploiting and increasing the profits of monopolistic groups. Mr Minister, you are asking yourself how you are placed as a government in this raw intervention of civil justice in the trade union movement, which cancels the conventions and statutes of primary and secondary trade unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u47	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, after an introduction which you have made and which shows your interest in the independence of justice, you are asking me to place myself in a way which will completely insult the independence of justice. I believe that your position involves a double institutional handicap: One is that you are asking me to intervene in the functioning of justice with a comment on a matter that is still pending, because there are other steps after that you have mentioned. The second is that you call a court judgment a suppressor. You made a description that I'd be glad to hear in your dentistry that you're abducting. Because I cannot comment on a judicial decision at all - and that is what the Constitution imposes on me right now - I am so brief in my prototype. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u49	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u50	Minister, I think we're all here attending Jerusalem. Nowadays, justice is on the news. When justice comes to deal with issues between business groups, then the noise that rises is too great, and the political forces are drawn up either with or with interests and there is strong controversy. In this case, you do not show any discussions about the role of judges or any of the judges. But when matters are raised that have to do with the labour movement, then what do you think? Independent Justice! Everybody invoke the independence of justice! You do not, however, invoke it when it comes to the system itself and to the business interests. And the political forces are silent when it comes to the labour movement. No political force here is referring to this. 99% of the strikes get out illegal. You will remember Mr. Komellis at that time with PASOK that the fifteen came out of more than twenty-seven! What was that? Wasn't it an intervention? Does the statutes have any value? Who approved the statutes of trade unions? Who approves? They're not approved by the courts? In other words, the judge who approved this statute of the Athens Labour Centre, which we tabled in the Minutes, was wrong and right, Mrs Nichopoulou, the one-sided court of First Instance, which comes to resolve the difference between a union - a united union, of course, and economics, etc. - the ALPHA BANK Bank's decisions against the conference's decisions? To tell me who is right, the judge who approved the statutes, or now the judge who says that the conference or the administration that the statute clearly says cannot be allowed to bring legal documents, to legalise the unions and with the right of exclusion, if they refuse to carry them within five days. Tell me what this is. Isn't that a raw intervention? We, of course, say you have a great responsibility. Behind this decision is the government, which wants tools in the movement to be able to pass this anti-grassroots policy and, in particular, what comes before us with the new labour law. Of course, that's not all, but it's all. Memorandums and measures at the expense of the working class are consistent. The government as another pole of change of power wants in the movement of forces serving this line. That is why you have great responsibilities. The assignment is made by you, the government, by direct intervention, so that you can get tools in your hands here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u51	Minister, although you were clear, here you are, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade. I have given you the opportunity to ask for an apology for a decision to be taken as a confiscator, but you have not made any use of the opportunity at all. In any case, I must tell you that I disagree with the whole of your position, because you are asking me to legitimise an intervention because more is being done. I would never do that. What I want and hope is that I will never get out of the way of justice and not legalise any of my interventions with a reduction or a reminder of an older person once. I have to tell you that I really don't agree with anything you're saying. I do not even agree that the age is accidental, because now there are labour claims, because I am 67 and I do not remember any time of my life when there are no labour claims and working struggles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u53	You lighted us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u54	We will continue with the eighth under the number 114/17-10-2016 timely question of the second cycle of the Independent Achaias MEP Jasona Foila to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the violation of the Constitution for non-compulsory withdrawal of senior judicial officers. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that our country is faced with a multi-level crisis, regardless of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's existing and very great responsibilities for its prolongation, I think we agree that it is more than ever necessary to keep the high level of functioning of the independent authorities, institutions and, above all, of justice. Unfortunately, however, with their specific actions some representatives of the supreme courts, but also the Prime Minister himself, do not contribute in this direction. I'd say the opposite. I become more specific: A few days ago, a meeting of the Prime Minister was held with the presidents of our country's Supreme Courts. During that time, the President of the Ice Bay, as he said after a meeting with seven judges, laid to the Prime Minister and the need for regulation to extend the age limit to the highest judicial officers. Minister, I would like here to read the specific provision of Article 88(5), so that everyone - and those who are listening to us - can understand what we are talking about. The Constitution, therefore, provides that senior judges with a degree higher than that of the year or of the Vice-President of the Court, shall be obliged to leave the service as soon as they have completed the 67th year of their age. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. So, Mrs Thanos specifically said to her colleagues that she raised the matter to the Prime Minister as a request for many judges and has explained to him that in other countries the judges have no age limits, she went further than interpreting Article 88(5), according to which the Constitution does not prevent the judges from staying after the 67th year of their age, but - take note of what she said - there may be a legislative solution and increase the age limit by three years, as - and here is the interpretation - the 67-year limit has been set for the protection of judges, so that no one can extort them earlier. As if this is not provided for by Article 88(1) of the Statute of Judges. Mrs Thanos thinks of the Americans. And it goes on to say that if the judges don't want to stay after the 67th year, this cannot be considered contrary to the constitutional requirements. In short, Ms Thanos said that she proposed to the Prime Minister a rhyspheological provision for herself, as she retired in June 2017, violating the Constitution emphatically and that the Prime Minister, in her statement, saw this attempt to violate the Constitution positively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take some of my denture. I won't need much time in my dentistry. Reactions resulting from the associations of judges were immediate and unequivocal. In particular, they said: "Everything, therefore, of a change in the constitutional ceilings with a formal law causes horror", Minister, "mainly for the convenience and unauthorized preoccupation with which it is attempting to overcome insurmountable constitutional barriers". That is what the judges said and I think, Minister, that their statement is clear and unequivocal. Then the Ministry of Justice - you, Mr Minister - made a statement that, being good-faithed, I would call it at least lukewarm, in any case by various interpretations, which is not appropriate either to the importance of the matter or to the attempted diversion of Mrs Thanos. In particular, you said, Minister: "The Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is reassuring. No trial of intent and no police of thought touches reality. No change, no neutronism will go beyond the institutional framework and legality." Because, Minister, the question - and I close - is of paramount importance and from your answer there are too many at stake, my question will be clear and specific, and I would ask you for a clear and, if possible, populist answer: in your view, this provision of Article 88(5) of the Constitution can be interpreted differently, beyond the grammar interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u56	Please, Mr. Lightla, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u57	I'm closing, Mr. President. ...that in no way can the retirement limit be extended to senior judges beyond 67th. Please tell me 'yes' or 'no'. What do you intend to do? What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u58	Because I had to save some time until Mr. Loverdos arrived, so I left you, or we don't take time from our dentistry. First of all, no Member can get the Bureau to give, because it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u60	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, you will save time thanks to me too. I'm always a lacon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u62	Minister, I have not mentioned you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u63	I shall respond to Mr Fotilla's appeal to me to be a pluralist and now. The provision of Article 88(5) of the Constitution is clear and I think that it is not possible to change the age limit under the current Constitution. I understand the thoughts of discussing the issue of a constitutional review which now exists on the horizon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u64	I think you have been quite clear. Here, for typical reasons, I give you two minutes, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. I heard your answer. It is very positive and it is an honour for you to clarify the matter so that there are no misinterpretations. Reasonable questions were raised from the Ministry’s announcement and the statements made by the president of the Ice Bay. My question to you, moreover, was to place yourself in public on this issue. I don't know if anyone or anyone feels convenient or uncomfortable. In any case, I am not surprised that you need clarification from your side. We are used to: In SYRIZA you need to vote twice to find the right one. Just to conclude, I would like to ask something: do you not think that Mrs Thanos should be disciplinaryly tested? Because it is obvious that her attempt to try to steer things towards the violation of the Constitution in order to benefit personally. That's not my point of view. It is the view of the Union of judges. The judges of our country say that. What is your opinion, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u66	That's another question, of course. If the Minister wants to, he's answering. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u67	Mr Colleagues, of course, despite the fact that I have said that I do not want this to happen, you are once again doing a trial of intent. Under no circumstances would I see disciplinary responsibility against any official who expresses an opinion on interpretation of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u68	We shall now proceed to the debate on the timely question that we have omitted. It is the fourth under number 115/17-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning parental equality - co-legislation of children. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u69	Minister, the months are over. You are about as government two years at the wheel of the place, and I think it is very reasonable to start preparing your statement, because it is a matter of time when you leave, as the people think it is. You will, of course, tell me that others are the deadlines of the Constitution. That's right. Government is elected for four years. But you know that the governments of the crisis have not lasted for more than two years. You must take this into account as a Minister, drawing up what you need to do in the field of justice. A few months ago, I asked you a question about parental conscientiousness. Because you are a sensitive legal and human person, I said at the time that it is perfectly reasonable and expected by you that an issue that really hurts too many people today, parents, fathers, who cannot be curated by their children. This issue is involved - a very sensitive issue for the child itself - in the conflicts that couples have. And I told you, because legislation is not problematic, but it is the application of the problem for many years, to give a solution. You said you'd do it as soon as possible. However, you did not know, as you said, more than that, namely as soon as possible, and as part of a general change in family law. I had asked you to distinguish this from the whole family law. You have not answered, but, from what I understand, you do not see this positive. After a few months, Minister, where are we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I am opposed to these'recruits', because wherever we are done', and I am going to answer Mr Loverdos's interesting question. Indeed, I promised to study this issue months ago. The development of the study is as follows: At first we had some fruits of this study and of processing, which was the introduction of the cohabitation agreement. And then some issues were kept for further study, such as issues in the area of Family Law, as is, of course, the issue of child care. In general terms, I agree with Mr Loverdos's approach. I believe that a review of family law is needed at this point, which will facilitate the custody of the child, but also for the peace of the people, even after a break-up. However, the issue of child care is central to the chapter of Family Law in the Civil Code. It is not easy to reform it in fragments, without an overall view of Family Law. The Committee on Legal Affairs, which has undertaken to see it and is already working, still needs time to see this and some related, which are also related to it. Unfortunately, this is the case with all the legislative committees which are currently working within the Ministry of Justice, that is to say, they are usually calling for an extension of their functions to work on this issue somewhat better. And I, like you, would like more speed. I hope that by December we will have a review, which will include, if not the whole family law, important funds. You are right that at first I gave you an answer showing that after the subject of the cohabitation agreement, we will see that part. I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs is right now to see that it is linked to other issues and makes a more comprehensive process that I hope will soon end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank the Minister for giving a concrete answer. The subject of my question, Mr President, was not to know whether changes in family law have been completed because, if it had been completed, we would have known that from the social consultation or, if that had been the case, it would have come to Parliament. My question was to know as soon as possible how short it is and today I learned that it is December. It's okay. There's light, that is. We're looking at light! However, as these, Minister, both from my experience and from other ministers, may still be delayed, I think that, as has been done for social coexistence, this will also be the case, although you are right. Other matters of family law are dealt with. However, an overall arrangement is better than a fragmentary one. I agree with that. But in this respect, I would like to say that, if it cannot be completed in December, as you are saying in the Greek Parliament today, the attempt to change overall, then see if you can distinguish some aspect of the matter. So that's as far as we've agreed. At this point, Mr President, I am taking this opportunity - I still have one, two minutes - to make a more general reference to a matter that is today and very intense, which also concerns the Minister for Justice. This is a question of what has happened with the publication of the name and letters of a Supreme Judge. I do not mention this to the Minister, because that is not the subject of my timely question. If he wants to, he's doing it! However, I can't report when I'm here as a questioner to the Minister of Justice. Mr President, I will be very brief. Justice has too many problems and the relevant ministers are trying to provide solutions. The most fundamental problem facing citizens is the delay in the award. However, in the context of a tension that is being brought to the courtrooms from the policy area, it is unreasonable that a Minister for Justice should take into account issues relating to either interception products or products which are in breach of the principle of personal data protection. I am not referring to it as an instrument, but to the principle of law itself. I do not think, in fact, that, on the basis of intercepting products - if it is intercepted - or on the basis of other forms of publication of personal communication products and entirely personal products and data, disciplinary procedures are being mobilised. It's completely unauthorized! I also wonder how a government that is supposed to be sensitive to legal matters is making such an action. The people control, the House controls!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u74	Minister, I think you have already answered and agreed. However, you are entitled to the time and, if you wish, you can answer it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u75	Mr Colleague, I will tell you that my position was certainly very difficult in this story. I said this in public, but I must repeat here to you, that this case was put before me and officially from a court in November 2015. Then I appealed to the President of the Council of State and to the President of the Ice Bay by means of a document, which said that at the moment there is only one document, which is probably - but obviously - intercepted, i.e. illegally acquired evidence and, furthermore, the fact has not been disclosed in such a wide range that there is a scandal in justice or that the 'complainant''''s personal data have been subjected to the widest insult. This would happen if I then made a disciplinary action covering both pre-disciplinary and disciplinary proceedings. So I did nothing with the document I had in my hands and, you know, it was not easy to decide. When the issue was made public in many respects, including by a Member, but also by a column, which was not based solely on this subject, but was related to various elements, then there was no question of avoiding a scandal in justice - because this was already created - nor was there any question of insulting personal data, because they had already been notified. Of course, I did not rely on the text which was published, but on other sources, as I said to you, which were then released, as you know. I made a move, which was hard for me. I have, however, noticed in the text of my order that it is not mentioned at all in private life. I think I had to act not on the basis of feasibility when it was appropriate and when it was not, but on the basis of legality. At the time the conditions were in place for the exercise of a disciplinary precedent, I had to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-six students and students and a attendant from the Private General High School "C. MALLIARA’. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first question of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Panayotas Vranza, will be debated here at 120/18-10-2016, which is here from 10 a.m. to the Minister of Finance, on the VAT rate of 24% for live producing animals. Here you go, Mrs. Vanja. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the application of the VAT rate of 24% on the sale of live production animals, given that the basic product, namely meat, has a VAT rate of 13%, creates a number of serious problems across the traffic network, from producer to consumer. It is common practice in a large part among farmers, particularly pig farmers, to sell their animals live. This means that the invoice issued by the farmer to the trader is calculated on the VAT price of 24%. Then, in the next stage of sale, by the dealer to the retailer, the VAT rate is 13%. In practice, this means that the trader in Greek meat is disbursing an amount of 11%, which unfortunately is not offset - and I do not know why - and it is hard to return. On the other hand, the trader of imported meat imports, buys zero VAT and sells at a rate of 13%, which means that the trader of imported meat receives 13%, which is paid over a period of three months. This simply means that the choice of Greek instead of imported meat by a trader leads to a total amount of 24% being committed to the value of its goods, from the available capital. It is therefore becoming absolutely advantageous to import. On the other hand, and for the same reason, there are serious difficulties in the export of meat products and meat preparations and, as strange as it may sound, there are exports of meat and there would be even more if the environment were more favourable. Minister, livestock farming has been unfavourable for many years. The cost of production has risen significantly and the producer’s prices have fallen sharply and thus also its income. Domestic meat production continuously declines, imports increase and any benefits from the increase in VAT are much smaller than the problems created by the increase in imports. So, on the basis of the above, you are asking whether you intend to reintroduce the VAT rate for live producing animals to 13%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. You will once again raise a very important issue with your questions concerning farmers and farmers. It is indeed a'reasonation', initially if someone sees it, that, depending on what form the meat will be bought, it has a different VAT rate, 13% or 24%. We have this development here because, unfortunately, VAT has to be increased in certain species, because of the budgetary circumstances, but we have kept the meat at 13% - you all know very well what was in place at that time and what pressure we were accepting - precisely so that we do not increase the cost of the Greeks' lives and create greater problems for farmers, farmers and a number of professional categories. The legality of this measure was considered necessary in order to widen the tax base and to address specific budgetary problems as a result of the agreement. However, I am glad to say that the meat stayed at 13% and there were no other increases, as we were under pressure as Greek Government, which would have a great impact. Now, when it comes to how we deal with this particular problem, which creates liquidity problems for businesses. Reality, not tax problems. Because, as you will see from the two documents I will be presenting to you, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, from the Indirect Taxation Application and from the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, from the Directorate-General for Taxation and from the two documents, it appears that, for businesses, the increase in the VAT rate on goods used as inputs is, in fact, a neutral tax, because they can offset it or have return issues, which are often delayed due to bureaucracy, controls and procedures, but which must exist. In any case, however, what I would like to say is that the government is considering this measure. In any case, the completion of 2016, as foreseen by L.4334, will enable us to review VAT rates and exactly what will happen. We are reviewing this measure and, if it is deemed to be inadequate for public tax revenues and creates problems for livestock businesses, we will, of course, review it after the end of 2016, to see how best to deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers attendants from the 5th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vanja, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said you would look into this again, so I would say a few more things to convince you that we should change the VAT rate. In addition to the major import favouring Greek production, therefore, there are many other negative extensions for Greek production, the primary sector and the national economy. The economic strangulation of healthy food chain businesses, based on domestic production, is a very serious loss in my view. The regime of the different VAT rate between live animals and slaughterhouses now leads many producers to slaughter their animals in their name so that they can sell meat to the trader and calculate VAT of 13%. This practically means a great administrative cost, because in the slaughterhouse six documents must be issued, the difficulty of many producers to respond to this, because there is huge bureaucracy and the loss of part of the traceability of the meat, because the slaughterhouse sends information to the ELGAK 'ARTEMIS' system. The slaughterhouse considers that the product remains with the farmer and not with the trader. There is also a loss of ELOGAK's revenue, because the sum to be paid by the trader is not paid. Recently producers have been asked to register in the Register of Traders so that there is no such loss, which increases both their jobs and bureaucracy. And because we know the Greek producer, we know that this is practically very difficult. Also, due to the different VAT rate, there have been few traders in different regions of Greece, which make it even more difficult for Greek producers to take up the market and further reduce the price they sell their products. The oligopoly there are driving. Minister, VAT is the most indirect tax, which is largely hidden, as well as income tax. If there is no rational application, collection falls and the measure becomes ineffective and unfair. The same absurdity in the application of VAT is, unfortunately, true in other sectors of primary production. I would like to mention two absurd phenomena, which touch the limits of funny: corn is considered processed when packaged. Then he has VAT 24%. The bulk has 13% VAT. The same applies to straw, that is to coarse foods, and to hay. We need transport and storage to be in bulk - for anyone who knows a little about primary production, knows that this does not exist - in order to keep the VAT rate low. The effectiveness of the production process and the common sense are therefore the conditions to be met in the implementation of any measures. Unfortunately, this measure is not satisfied. It is therefore necessary to make the necessary improvements immediately. The recent example of excise duty on wine seems to me to be a characteristic of the irrational application of measures which result in more problems than they solve. Minister, with such failures, we also give the opportunity to those who have really destroyed the primary sector to present themselves as honorers and supporters. You know what I mean. It is clear, in fact, that the existing arrangements for the application of VAT to animals, meat and feedingstuffs are a factor in production, in the primary sector. It leads to an increase in illegal trafficking, with a loss of revenue from the state and problems with public health potentially. You said you'd see it. I think it's necessary to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u82	Minister, because you have always given us news in this House, since I have heard about the wine that Mrs Brandza has said, if I remember well from the special tax you imposed, you have expected 60 million. Is that right? You have a picture, because we are approaching November, what has been collected so far? If you have any evidence, I ask that by the way. The Minister for Finance, Mr Alexiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u83	The special tax you mean in wine?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u85	No, we do not yet have any evidence, but as I did yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I will present to you as soon as we have evidence. The Treasury has launched a new tactic, all we've submitted to the House. I have an pending payment for television licences, Mr President, from a previous question. There, as you know, the amounts have already been collected and we are now collecting the other instalments. As far as this issue is concerned with VAT, what I want to say is that you are absolutely right with regard to the distortions and problems that we are creating in farmers, who, instead of having actions of tax, development and other kinds that we support farmers and farmers and fishermen, the primary production activity - I imagine, that is what Mr Apostle, who is here, later on in his speech - will say, instead of helping these sectors, we are unfortunately creating problems. And one of the problems we are creating is that. But it is clear and you know better than me how we have led to these decisions. All of this is the result of Law4336 that two hundred and twenty-one Members voted. We have had to go to these situations, which create either distortions or various other problems, which we shall of course have to deal with. And the good course of tax revenue 2016 enables us in 2017 to continue trading from better positions and to resolve these issues. You do not have to convince us, because you know our views very well. We are convinced and have an opinion on these things, but you understand that a negotiation process needs a more general attitude on these issues and what we need to do. But to make it clear what we are answering, we say that we are aware of the problem created by the differentiation of VAT rates, this absurdity of 'one another and the other' and the difficulty that we are creating in Greek farmers and as soon as we can, in 2017, address this particular issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis, and your presence. But I have another answer for the permits I have submitted for the last 15 days, to say yes to how much you have received, but I ask how much the state is losing since the rest of the five channels are closed. I haven't got an answer yet. It's been fifteen days. We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate. The third question with number 118/17-10-2016 will be discussed in the context of a topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the national moderation energy from the absence of a Greek flag to a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, will answer. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, Minister, the question may be a little overdue. We say "national meditation" on this issue, because Mr. Tsipras went to a Turkish area in New York, that is, he was invited by Erdogan and went as an expressioner of a "rajadi", I would say, politics in his own area and there were only Turkish flags posted, and we know that it should normally be the Greek flag. The sources of Big Maximos said that customarily it is not because of the customary office of the Foreign Ministries, because it is not the post itself, that is, it did not see Prime Minister, it saw Prime Minister. However, this call to the protocol raises great questions, because at meetings of the Prime Minister and with Presidents of other countries here and abroad, in the past, with an insurmountable relationship, there were Greek flags. There were the flags of both states. The absence of the Greek flag, therefore, empowers the prestige of the Turkish state to the detriment of our country. Finally, Minister, we would like some answers today from you, who are also leaving the contents of the question. I would say - not at a dose of rudeness - that if a Foreign Minister cannot speak clearly and answer the questions I will put to you in my dentistry - and I would ask you very much not to escape, saying that he is not in the spirit of the question - then I would say that he is not for a Minister. So you should explain to the questions I will put to you in my dentistry, beyond the question, some clear answers. I would also like you to tell us about a major issue, which is currently concerned with topicality and is written in all the newspapers, about the appointment of a permanent imam in Agia Sophia. I want you to tell us what action the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take, what the Greek position is, and if you agree with this Turkish action. To conclude, in order not to be too practicable, Minister, I would like you to tell me: Turkey is an allied country and a friend or a threat? Because this is where we live a theater of irrationality. For the Ministry of National Defence Turkey is considered a country's threat, which is why we have an army, patrol our borders, it's supposedly as best as possible, and for the other ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it's a friend and ally, we're in the same alliance, the North Atlantic. What's the matter, anyway?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u88	Finish it. Keep the rest for the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u89	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Why if we're friends, then why do we have an army and why are we wasting so much money for an army that we don't need it, since Turkey is our friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u90	Mr Minister, you have the floor on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, as you know, the meeting of the Prime Minister and the Greek delegation with the President of Turkey and the members of his delegation took place in the margins of the work of the 71st UN General Assembly. From the point of view of formality, the Prime Minister did not meet with a counterpart, but with a Head of State, outside Turkey, at a point where he is considered the seat of the latter. From the point of view of customization, addiction, and this is real, it is not a matter of evasion - I have heard your questions, I will answer you, Mr Papoutsis - at similar meetings of non-confessionals, it is necessary to place two small national flags on the table and among the heads of delegations. Hence, Mr Papoutsis, and there were the two major Turkish flags, one by the Turkish state and the second by the President, due to the presence of the Turkish President, while the table was two small flags, one by the Greek and the other by the Turkish. This was followed by all the meetings that took place there. I will testify to the Minutes, although it is well known to you - and if it is not known to you, I will present it to the Minutes to see - this photograph which Mr Erdogan is with Mr. Byden, as well as other photographs, which I will also present in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, in this respect, I think you've been covered. You have already said it in your question that it is possible that this particular move is pulled by the designation of national moderation, as well as that it is an opportunity to develop further questions. I understand the Members of Parliament when they are present in the presence of the Ministers, apart from the question, they are presenting more so that they can answer the whole question. However, if you would like, please put a question with the specific questions that you have asked and given the answer. seriously in Parliament when I think we are coming, Mr President, that as far as the substance of the question is concerned we are prepared and we are responding in a responsible and official manner. From there on, in another debate, in another context, in other committees, obviously, and I could answer you. Allow me, get back and whether I have the ability to answer it or not. Don't put it personally. It is a matter of substance and seriousness how any minister comes to the national Parliament and tells Members exactly what they ask him to do. Please testify to your questions and we will come and answer you. It's not a question of competence or not here. It is essential how serious answers we give the Greek Parliament. And please get it back what you said about his ability if I can answer no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u92	I think it wasn't personal or peak to your face. He meant governmental capacity, Mr. Pappas. You have the floor, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u93	One of your colleagues once told me: "Do not hit Amanatidis, he is a patriot". I have no intention of hurting you or telling you. You are now expressing a government which, as a whole, is a national government and I am aware of my reasons, of what I am saying. The issue is not the flag. The flag, I would say, is also a characteristic of how you people in power feel about Turkey when we see the small flag on the table and the Turkish flags dominate the walls. In any case, for the sake of your government's policy, Mr Amanatidis, you have completely demolished Erdogan, who is exploiting the total absence of a Greek reaction from both your own governments and the other Memorandum governments that had preceded it. It is now calling for a revision of the Treaty of Lausanne. He calls for a referendum in Thrace, that is to say, he dreams of an annexation of our Thrace to Turkey. Erdogan has done so with these statements. Greek reactions are lukewarm. You said that the press release sent by our embassy is corrigendum to Erdogan's statements, that is, you were lost in translation. I have a document here. I'll put it in the Minutes too, Minister. The embassy did this, I'd say, fraud, a misdemeanor, forgery. He sent a second telegram with the same protocol number. Who? The people you protect, protect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - not personally now that you are a government - I mean all these press releases that are paid with thousands of euros. I'm filing it for the Minutes, so the Minister can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I mean, Minister, the Turkish influence is currently strangling Greece. We have an Islamization of our country. There will be an Islamization of our country, even with the creation of many jams. Let us not dwell on the fact that there is a mosque in the Botanic - which you have all signed - and the New Democracy and you and all parties, except Golden Dawn - and that all these millions of illegal immigrants, the tens, hundreds of thousands in Athens in illegal mosques, etc., will be served by an eight hundred mosque, if I am not cheating. Our Athens will be broken, the Greek cities will be squandered with mosques everywhere. That's if it's not an Islamization of our country, then what is it? As far as the issue of imam in Agia Sophia is concerned, I would like you to give me information, because I believe that in the morning you will read newspapers and will have to be a Foreign Ministry to be informed before the newspapers write it down. What are you going to do, Mr. Amanatidis? Our country is Islamized. Golden Dawn as a movement of nationalist, as a resistance movement of the Greeks, will once again stand up to the circumstances of all of you who rule the Left, who would say - let me, Mr President, here we can speak from...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u94	Yeah, but you've finished the time. Say that and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say that your government is a government of the "slayer" abroad and a government of Stalinist internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Amanatidis has the floor. You are choosing, because on the substance of the question you have already answered, Mr Minister, if you wish to answer other questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u97	Two words. I do not know what has been said and who, however, is patriot or not every time the Greek people judges it. I think in relation to the flag issue, it's over. You know that, too. As far as I understand it, the question became more like a head office to say, put...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u98	I'm sorry to interrupt. Minister Kotzias, while having asked him dozens of questions, is not coming to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Poppa, I don't think that's a good thing you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u100	Finally, the Minister will have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Pappa, to interrupt, you get the permission from me. You don't get it from Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u102	I therefore believe that your question has been answered in full at this level. From there, I will continue with two things that you mentioned on some points. The source of the Foreign Ministry's announcements in relation to the Turkish President's statements was the official text of his speech and no one else. Unfortunately, some other political forces have adopted the things which have been transmitted and indeed asked the relevant questions to Parliament. The specific policy we are doing is sober, calm and determined. As for the danger of Greece being embedded in Athens, I think it's not just excessive, but it actually results from the ideology you have, which you're taking, and according to which anything different or something that you don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u103	Other words to be loved!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u104	This is my personal appreciation, you will allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u105	You were twenty-seven years a teacher.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u106	Mr Pappa, when you talk about stalinists inside and enslaves abroad, I do not accept that for this Greek government. This Greek Government has shown examples of democracy inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u107	Take this to read it. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Pappa, I cannot allow you to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u109	Please, give this to Mr Amanatidis to read it. Read it, Mr. Amanatidis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I ask for your protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u111	He filed it in the Minutes, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u112	He could do it in his speech, not interrupting the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u113	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u114	Have a seat, Mr. Pappa. He heard you without opening his mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u115	The assessment you have of this government, that 'is stained inside and enslaved abroad'...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u116	Government slap abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u117	...I return it with the point that this government has strengthened democracy internally, voted for the simple analogue, has spoken of changes to the Constitution and abroad taking a proud stand, decisive and always serving, not small politically, but national interests. In this area, we have also called for all political forces to be assembled and I think that the foreign policy field is a field, which is also addressed to all the parties in which national consensus is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Amanatidis, sweet chair, but sweeter foot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u119	We're moving on to the next question. Mr. Poppa, let the process go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Pappa, I'm not taking home lessons from anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Amanatidis, don't go on. In any case, nothing is written in the Minutes at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u122	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u123	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u124	There is absolutely nothing in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u125	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Amanatidis, don't fall into the trap.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u127	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u128	In the Minutes, there is no talk from this debate. We shall proceed to the next four questions, to which the Minister will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. The fifth question will be discussed under No 126/18-10-2016 of a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Food, on the destruction of the fires on Thassos island. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, once again in recent years, last month, in September, Thassos, this beautiful green island, experienced huge fire disasters. We will not be talking here about the enormous responsibilities of your government - and also of the previous ones - regarding the prevention of such phenomena, prevention at its worst because of subsistence, lack of means and everything. We are now asking our question to talk to you and to ask you to restore damage to nature and to people, because the disasters are too great, Minister. Seventy thousand acres of forest land and agricultural land became ashes. Stationary facilities, animals, beeswaxes burned. The blow to beekeeping is particularly heavy and here we say Thassos produces 36% of the total production of Greek honey. The oil producers have seen their olive trees burning, especially at the time that they are hitting each other by your own policy and policy of the European Union, the known CFP. What will all these people do, Minister? How will they live their families? You're responsible. On the other hand, the farmers of Kallirachi in Thassos are still waiting for their compensation from the fire of 2013 and the snakes are living for them. They see the winter coming and the danger of flooding is greater because of the fire, since the necessary infrastructure is left on paper, as is known - that if it stayed on paper - a dam in Prinos or besieged, such as the Maria dam. So we ask you what you will do, Minister. Will you take all the measures to refresh all the burnt areas in Thassos? Is there going to be a record of all the damage to agricultural production? And above all, to make this record for full compensation, 100%, by the state to the people there of Thassos. Will you give exceptional financial support to farmers, farmers, beekeepers of all these regions who saw their livelihood being destroyed? We're asking you and we're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u130	The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I think you know that when this fire broke out, the government - the next day exactly - was present. And I personally and the minister in charge, Mr. Toskas, were there on the spot. In fact, the images we have seen were shocking in that it was an episode very difficult and in these difficult weather conditions. But we know that in our country, having a vegetation of bad pineapple, which is mostly pyrophilis, we have such incidents. We'll have each year. From there, you know that especially Thassos, after a few days, the Prime Minister, himself, visited the head of government. Indeed, we did have a fire that destroyed about sixty thousand acres. Fifty - seven thousand acres were gravel pine forests in an area that had been burned before and around the three thousand acres of olive trees. So we have said - and we repeat this - that we will take advantage of all the possibilities to cover damage and, of course, also to restore the environment, in particular. You know that we are already talking about the affected livestock farmers, and we are talking about about a hundred and eleven farms, that is to say, all the farms on the island, they are credited to these days, which will cover for a hundred days the needs of the farms concerned. At the same time, the Ministry of Interior decided to finance EUR 150,000 for the immediate treatment of damage. The area was declared in an emergency by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. It followed the Ministry of Finance with their respective decisions, which were implemented by at least 30 March, with all due and due obligations to the DU and the various Audit Centres. At the same time, of course, the East Macedonia Region has made a concrete request of EUR 680,000 to include projects relating to the restoration of damage to the Public Investment Programme. This proposal is currently under evaluation. There has also been a great deal of stress - and you have also raised it - on the question of dealing with the dangers of not characterising these lands as reservoirs and, of course, on the flooding projects to be carried out in these areas, given that difficult weather conditions arise and you realize that there are some areas that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u132	But please, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u133	There is one study at this time and, of course, this study will be financed through the Green Fund, which will cover expenditure on first-hand interventions with cordless wires, welded wires, all that actually offers first-hand protection. The studies in question have been prepared, and at the same time, this area will be immediately declared to be resurrected, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u134	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. Know that we will leave nature - we will protect it, of course - because the Greek forests are easily regenerated - I told you about the pine pine tree - and nature itself will be the one to react. If after years...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u136	Okay, you're committed to making the area resurrected. We're closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and an educational attendant from the Private General High School "C. MALLIA’ (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. You spoke, Minister, about the natural presence of the government in the days of the fire. We do not question it, although it would have been preferable for the government to have your own, as would the previous ones, with its projects, with the necessary preventive projects, the infrastructure necessary to prevent such major disasters. And this presence, unfortunately, did not exist. You said you would take all the room to restore the damage. But the specific things you said, and I held back, are only two. You said you'd help the farmers, compensate them for the next hundred days, by Christmas, that is. Then what will they do, Minister? How will they live? And you said you would give 150,000 euros to repair the damage. The amount I think is funny and we still talk about such a great disaster on an island like Thassos, which isn't small. In relation to your statements on compensation now, let us say here that because farmers are aware of these announcements, they know how long they are, how long they are, and are well known that the compensation from the famous MACDs last up to - for farmers to take them, namely - three or four years. And I said the example of Kallirachi earlier. Let me tell you here that some livestock farmers in Thassos, in the burnt Thassos, because they did not have time to declare the animals in their statement of compensation, because they had to find the burned animals first to declare them, to prove that they were theirs, the deadline has passed and, unfortunately, these people are left outside. What we are asking you to do is to extend the deadline for these farmers. To say, in order for a farmer to make a statement about the livestock lost, he must pay 2 euros for every animal that says he has lost. We told you about the infrastructure problem, about the floods, of which the danger is enormous, with what this could mean for the island, for the dams of Prinos, which has been left on paper, and for Marios, which have been abandoned, is left behind. We want to tell you here, in relation to the resurrected areas, that Thassos has a huge beautiful forest, which is over two hundred thousand acres. Infrastructural, however, the staff, which takes care of this forest, is minimal. Let us just tell you that for fire protection you only gave EUR 42,000 last year - what are you to protect, that is? - while the relevant forestry services are literally declining by staff. However, we want here to tell you about some immediate measures, to ask them, to demand them. Are these people, who were destroyed by this fire, going to pay HIS this year? Will they be exempt from their tax contributions, their tax obligations? Are you going to freeze the loans some of them have, most of them? Will you give financial support to all farmers, farmers and beekeepers? Are you going to grant emergency support to these farmers? Only for three months have you said that we are talking about the next period, for as long as necessary, in order to shed their herds, to buy their feed. Will you give the beekeepers - a particular production of the island - land left in this forest, so that they can continue their production? The truth is that your policy does not give us much hope of becoming some of them. The issue is the farmers themselves, the livestock farmers, the inhabitants of Thassos to organise and claim. And in this claim, of course, the JRC will be on their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u138	All right, you've asked a lot of questions. A lot of people are escaping the Minister's responsibilities. He'll answer hiss and, if he knows and wants, the others. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u139	I told you instantly about the interventions. Of course, I left for my denture, for example, the ones that can be covered by the ELGA. There has already been a relative count, estimates are personalised and, of course, the ones covered by the ELGA premium, and I am referring to agricultural production, will be paid. Of course, there are damages which are not covered, but we are obliged and committed to the procedures known to farmers, that are what we call the MAGPs. Procedures require the preparation of a dossier to be submitted to the European Commission for adoption. And because they are covered by the state budget, there will be a financial contribution respectively. It must be understood, however, that when we talk about the damage to olive trees from a fire, the final assessment of the damage to olive trees will be made in the spring of the year, because then it is the period of vegetation and from there it will appear what the size of the damage is. So you realise that this is not happening today, tomorrow. Of course, there will be a loss of this case in terms of this year's production. That's covered. However, the loss of income in the years to come is a matter which is not covered by the premium. So it's gonna have to go through these procedures. I do not have time, Mr President, for you to understand that it is too much. You specifically said whether all the livestock farmers will be covered. One month we have waited for the farmers' declarations and I can inform you that only one of them has not been presented. Of the hundred twelve, the one hundred eleven came, made such statements and was treated in this portion of the hundred days. We're talking about direct intervention. From that point on, we have to solve a problem between us. For areas declared refreshable, it is automatically compulsory to prohibit any intervention, in particular grazing. And as you can see, the problem is too great, especially in areas such as Thassos, which is an area which is constantly suffering from fires, I told you why. There, then, any intervention to declare reservoirs of all lands automatically poses a major problem to us whether these livestock units will have lands to graz. And, above all, the other major problem is that part of it must be eligible, so that we can have the payments of the corresponding Community aid. You realize that these are not easy problems. We will, however, deal with them in such a way that if we still need to transfer units, because they do not have the opportunity, we will do so, we will cover all these procedures. So, in a complex problem, we need a methodized and designed approach. And to be sure that both farmers and beekeepers - indeed, there is a remarkable activity in the region - that we will try, with the possibilities we have and, of course, in the context of the European Commission regulations, to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u140	We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 75/11-10-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the upgrading of the Messara Agricultural School in Heraklion. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Messara is an area of south-western Heraklion, of which the majority of inhabitants have the primary sector as their main occupation. It is an area that makes a significant contribution to the country's national wealth. It is therefore an area - and this is confirmed by scientific analyses - which has a future population growth over the next period. It is characteristic that Tympaki, a city in the region, is expected to more than triple, almost quadruple, its population. I believe that on this basis, our Government has an obligation to intervene in order to facilitate the lives of our fellow citizens, to solve or even to prevent problems. In this sense, I understand that with our interventions - regardless of whether they get out of your ministry's powers - we must finally end the road of Heraklion - Messara, end with this modern bridge of Arta and leave behind all the mockery experienced by the people of the region by the former PASOK and New Democracy governments. In the same intervention is the upgrading to a multi-powered medicine of Tymbaki, the creation of a new medicine in Matala, the possible sixteen-hour operation of the doctor in Agios Ten, with a word about the reordering of the health map of the area, so as to adapt to the movements of the population and its corresponding coverage. In the same direction, I see the speeding up of procedures for the new Gortina Museum which, apart from the protection of the archaeological treasures of the region, will also contribute to tourist development, with what this entails in the development of the respective area. I would still see our intervention in the extension of the town plans of Moires and Tympakis, mainly to facilitate the installation of the population. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The list is long. Of all these, I stand out for the improvement of agricultural production and I shall be standing at the Agricultural School of Messara. It worked in 1920 as a practical agricultural school. It's in Abelouzo of today's Municipality of Gortina. Because it has to be a magnet of education for students from all over Greece, with the aim of strengthening the primary sector and because it has to have an integrated programme - it is a recent agreement between the Region of Crete and the ELGO 'DIMITRA' to set up a multifunctional farm, but that is not enough - of course - I would like to ask you what the design and timetable for the nature and nature of the agricultural school is and whether this design includes synergies and partnerships and other important structures of Crete. I refer here to the vineyard of Skalanio, Ierapetra Agricultural Research Station, Rethymnon School, the research institutes of Crete, the museum of Messara, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u142	Of course, the first you said, they concern the Minister of Infrastructure. What can Mr. Apostle say? Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u143	I shall, therefore, stand on my authority, Mr President. The Greek Agricultural Organisation “Dimitra”, the supervision of which the Ministry of Rural Development is supervised, is responsible for the organisation and operation of vocational schools in the agricultural sector. Its aim is, of course, to upgrade these six vocational schools so that they can make professional farmers, who can respond to both our programme proposals and what we are looking for in the rural area. The aim of this professional school Messara is to prepare, in particular, professional farmers on the subject of greenhouse constructions, cultivations, which will substantially meet the real needs of qualified personnel, as far as the area of the greenhouse facilities is concerned. We are implementing a specific programme. We have the necessary infrastructure and, of course, through this training - by catching all the system relating to equipment, the greenhouse operation, and indeed I would say modern forms of greenhouse operation - we believe that farmers who are going out of this school will have the potential in particular in terms of innovation, on issues that the rural area must now specialise and serve. However - and that is the big problem we have - although we offer such special skills and knowledge, we do not have the requested number of students at school. This year we're talking about ten students. You know, it is a reality that we are saddened by, how much more so when we announced the first day before yesterday, we published the programme for young farmers. We want young farmers who have the necessary skills to get into the room. It is Messaras, one of the schools we want and to upgrade and retain, above all, new farmers to train.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u144	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I keep it's one of the schools where the ministry focuses on his interest, wants to upgrade, develop more. I know there are some contacts and I had spoken with service actors both in your Ministry and in the Ministry of Education. I would like to ask if we have any development on the curriculum and the school's overall character beyond 'thermautic farming'. The second, of course, is out of the question of the Messara Agricultural School - since the rural world, which is an issue in the area, is the exploitation of water resources. That's a part of it, too. I would like to ask you, if you have anything new about this. I refer to the Lake River dam, the Platy dam in the area of Messaras or the use of the Faneromeni dam and another, which is quite easter, the Amira dam. I am also taking this opportunity, Minister, if you have anything new about the most famous Form 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor. You've covered the question. I don't know what else you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I am pleased that my colleague, in fact, raises issues, particularly those which are the subject of the resolution of No4384 on agricultural cooperatives, this framework. There we have put in place provisions which provide for cooperation between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Education, so that we can have specialisations in applied areas and areas that are of particular interest to the local community and, of course, regional structure. So we say that we are planning to change specialty for this school. To create specialties such as vegetarian artisan, alternative cultures, such as beekeeping technicians, since there is one need and it gives us the way out to what is being called for, namely to have more students at school. We really have a co-operation, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your proposals. You can discuss them, we can see them. Of course, because you raised a big issue, which relates to land improvements in Crete, what I have to say to you is that the need for interventions in particular in dams, especially in water saving and storage structures in Crete, is known. So within the programme on land improvements, which we will be calling for next period, there are, of course, many interventions in the area of Crete to be included in this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Igoumenides, after three months, you'll come back for the dams to have a time horizon. The 15th will be discussed under number 76/11-10-2016 topical question of the second-round question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the strengthening of the producers of green olives in the Prefecture of Halkidiki. You have the floor, Mrs. English.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, although the harvest period of the green olive has now ended in Halkidiki, the question we are debating today remains timely, because the problem is time-consuming and every year we are getting away from solving it more and more for the benefit of producers. Every year in September, with mid-October, the olive growers of Halkidiki harvest the green olive. The cultivation of the green olive in Halkidiki employs twenty-two thousand farms, which run sixty thousand inhabitants in the wider area and cultivate over three hundred thousand olive acres, while 80% of the population in Halkidiki is involved in the cultivation and products of the olive. Eighty processing plants of olive oil and forty mills are still in operation. The table olive Halkidiki is a product with excellent export interest. It accounts for 50% of Greek table olive production and 43% of total exports. Only twenty thousand tons of green olive are exported from Halkidiki to forty-five countries. In fact, the traditional cultivation of the green olive of Halkidiki gives products of protected designation of origin (PDO). It can be seen, however, that this year will be a black page for the olive tree of Halkidiki. This year's production is estimated to be reduced and yet the prices that merchants currently give to producers for Halkidiki olive start from 0.30 euros the 100 pieces pounds pound and reach 0.80 euros per kilo. The producer price for last year was 1,30 euros - 1,35 euros a kilo, while in 2014 it was 2,30-2,35 euros. Since olive oil is a key pillar of the local economy, and the production of local quality products is a declared objective of the Government in the context of the productive reconstruction of the primary sector, the Minister asks: What does it intend to do to protect the income and sustainability of Halkidiki producers, strengthen employment and protect themselves from the immunity of commercial circles? What are the incentives for their stay in the production of green olive? What action will it take to promote and export the local olive varieties of Halkidiki? What action does the Ministry intend to take to link the agricultural sector and tourism to Halkidiki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u150	The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostleou, has the floor. Just, check it out, because the time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u151	Dear colleague, table olives fall under the common organization of the market. It is Regulation 1308 of 2013, where, essentially, the main measures to support the site are taken and decided by the competent bodies of the European Commission, the Council of Ministers, the managing authorities. This means that interventions at national level, to some extent, are restricting them. The specific year under discussion this year is a year which has reduced production, but despite the decline in production this year because last year's production was too high, it is still pressing prices this year as well. There is, of course, one big question, whether this reduction in production will also mean a corresponding reduction in income. In this respect, then, we are obliged to see whether we can do so through the MAGP - the one we have said before - to cover. We, of course, are trying, within the framework of the European Commission, to take various measures, with which we will, in fact, be able to use the available Community funds as best as possible. Especially for the three years 2015-2017, NSA Polygyros and NSA Halkidikis have already taken - as organisations of olive-growers - a specific funding totalling 1,27 million, about 620,000 for each organisation. That is, of course, in relation to the period up to now. Today, six programmes for the promotion of agricultural products, including table olive, are being implemented. This programme has at its disposal EUR 22.3 million. Therefore, within the new regulatory framework that came out and starts in December 2015, we will put about 2017 and according to needs and applications, because these applications for product promotion are specifically applications submitted by operators. We already have the information, that table olives and institutions from the region will be subject to a specific request. This request, if it is adopted, will be monitored and helped as far as possible to implement it, for it to be properly absorbed, that is to say, in order to serve what producers are targeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u152	Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that all these aids are very important for the promotion of the product, but the problem is how traders deal with the fact that producers are constantly at the disposal of traders and exploited by traders. This is not just the olive tree. It also happens in the apricots in Halkidiki, and the same problems are faced by the beekeepers in the area. This year's situation with the olive growers is to start harvesting without knowing the potential prices for their products. Green olives are as sensitive as a product, which cannot remain in the tree for a long time as it cannot remain unprocessed. With time pressure, therefore, to produce a quality product, producers are forced to give their products and the price to be retrospectively determined by the trader. This year is a year with reduced production, as we said. However, prices do not follow supply and demand rules and remain low for producers. As expected, the drop in production is increasing interest in the stocks of the previous year. The savage olives are, therefore, enough to be sold at stock prices. This situation creates a dead end to the olive growers who can no longer live from their crops. Many, in fact, are thinking of abandoning the cultivation of green olives or turning to olive oil. This will deprive Halkidiki and Greece of an excellent product that is a seal for the region, but also an important export product, as we have said. I think that producers through cooperative schemes and producer groups can strengthen their position. Indeed, the fact that there are several small manufacturing units in Halkidiki produces additional added value in agricultural products. However, the basic condition for strengthening the producer's position in the product's value chain, in particular for the green olive of Halkidiki, is the inmediate relationship between producers and consumers. That is why I consider it very important that the legislative initiative you have taken to establish the producer markets should be completed. The fact that the Ministry, which is responsible for agricultural production and development, provides a way out for producers, making the dominant players on the market is an important step towards the productive reconstruction of the primary sector. In this direction, I consider the link between the agricultural sector and the tourism that for Halkidiki to be of key importance. And I am not referring only to hotel owners' initiatives to introduce local products into their morning meals. I am referring to initiatives that highlight another smaller-scale tourism model directly linked to the environment, the region's activities and the primary sector. Agricultural tourism is a form of tourism, which has many potential for development in Halkidiki. I am talking about rural tourism and not rural tourism. I am talking about visiting farms, strengthening organic farming and producing high-priced quality products, buying producers with local products, which can be the same agricultural product, for the role that the farmer can play in these forms of growth of the economy, opening up to new markets and increasing exports and visitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u154	Minister, would you like to answer? It was a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u156	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to say a few words on my part that the question of the specific product, table olive, is that on the international market, because it is a product which is essentially produced in a national product, it can compete and stand. He has a comparative advantage, which is his qualitative status. This is something that is internationally accepted and we see it particularly in the agreements that we are discussing with third countries, how they try to use the brand name, use the particular product, misleading consumers, their own, so that they can actually ensure the consumption that this particular product, quality, our own can offer. The second, however, to serve this, must surely be the promotion process through collaborative forms, as you have said. We brought this law. In particular, there is provision for the organisation of groups of producers of interbranch organisations and for this sector, where there are additional conditions for strengthening these forms of cooperation from the European Union. I am telling you, for example, that a producer group may enjoy cover for five years for operating costs up to EUR 100,000. It is a very important incentive, so that producers themselves can cooperate so that they can really deal with what is happening on the market. Because the intervention of the area which is particularly exploiting the marketing and marketing of agricultural products is limited and any benefits from the added value of the products in question go to the producers themselves, to their own farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u158	We are reaching the last question of this cycle. It is the seventeenth under number 83/11-10-2016 topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance, on compensation for the damage caused by the oil trees in the fire in Larisi Prefecture. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u159	Yeah. That's not all. This is the one part, Mr President. Thank you. Indeed, it concerns the Gonna area, the fire that in mid-July burned a huge area and the first estimates destroyed about forty thousand olive trees. Since then some moves have not been made by the competent ELGA services etc. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. We are talking about an area where this crop is the main crop. The fire hit mainly edible olives, which along with the oil produced - because there are trees used for oil production - is one of the main crops in the region. Of course the questions we put, one of which the President also mentioned, extend beyond the record of damages and compensation to 100% of the damage suffered by farmers. We call for measures to be taken at the same time to relieve the affected, to freeze debts, to loans to banks and to the public, by extension, but also to provide exceptional financial support, where necessary, at the same time as exemption and to freeze, if necessary, fees and taxes. At the same time, another issue arises from this fire, as well as from other disaster issues, which are the implementation and design of all necessary measures for fire protection in this regard. At the same time, there is a request or we ask - if you would like - for the aid to be given by more necessary means of the Fire Corps, so that this aid, along with the necessary personnel, will make it possible for the Fire Corps to intervene as fully as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u160	Me too, Mr. Bright. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u161	Mr Colleague, you know - it is for the simple reason that this is the case in the relevant ELGA regulation - that the damage to agro-food farms from fires is part of RCF programmes and they are compensated - I repeat - through the state budget. The fire, however, reportedly had a damage of about three thousand acres. So many acres of forest and rural areas have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u162	He didn't have a forest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u163	Indeed, it was actually estimated that about thirty - five thousand olive trees were affected. These were declared by the producers. That's where the damage ranged. The recordings, of course, of the impact of this fire on herbal capital will not come out now. They will - I repeat - come out again in the spring, when we have the beginning of the new blast period. We cannot say that so many olive trees have been destroyed at this time. Then we'll really see that, as well as to what extent they were destroyed. From there, of course, the necessary dossier will be drawn up, as I have said before, which will be submitted to the European Commission. What we already know, after discussions and decisions that are being taken at the moment, is that the double check carried out in all the files was abolished, which means that the procedures are shorter, of course, on condition that there will be budgetary coverage from the state budget. From there on, then, I have nothing more to say for the simple reason that other issues that you put on, prevention, construction, etc., are issues for which another ministry is responsible for answering. However, at this point in time what concerns you and concerns the world is to see how we move forward as quickly as possible so that we can incorporate all these damages, as I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u165	Minister, the regulation can provide for what you have said on the basis of what the regulation provides for. It is what the wise people say "Keep me alone to have a triple". In other words, next year, May, for example, or summer, the oil producers concerned will also expect, as will other olive growers from previous questions. Until then? But from there? We're putting a number of questions, what I've developed in protology, and they're seen by the question. They lead to despair. There will be no income this year. As I told you in the protology, the main source of income for a large part of the population in the Gonna area is olive and olive oil production. You see, until then, the farmers and the farmers concerned, as in the whole of the territory, have to pay taxes, carpets, to bear heavy burdens which are borne by the policies that are unfolding and which are implemented by you and the previous governments. Until then, what will they do in terms of loans, HISPIA and all that comes to the questions we ask you? You say: 'I am not responsible, I am agricultural development.' I am sorry, however, that a uniform policy is being pursued by the government, that is to say, the measures we call for fire protection. And I am passing away, the Communist Party and the current Government in time has intervened with a series of interventions within and outside the House, as in previous governments, claiming fire protection measures and similar anti-military protection projects etc. Also, what emerges from this disaster, the fire, is the enormous shortages in the Fire Corps. It is not possible to intervene by means of means and human resources enough to prevent them, on the one hand, and, on the other, to prevent them. The sovereign, as in all areas, in my opinion is prevention, forest protection and it goes on to say. This means that personnel are needed, it means strengthening structures, services, tools, etc., as well as works for the launching of fire-fighting zones, all the prevention measures needed to minimise - because you cannot eliminate them - such tragic situations and their consequences. You told me about the PSAs. Now don't talk. This is a mock. You know that very well. We had discussed this on the occasion of the damage suffered by the trees of Tyrnavos from the frost of March. Not only today has it happened that the day that the peasants of Tyrnavos are at a rally in Tirnavos claiming, not only those measures that you know them very well on the basis of the demands they have made from March's ice, but also measures that are more generally related to the policy that breaks them and leads them to be dismantled. In this direction we will also present in the Minutes a memorandum from the rural associations of Larissa and, by extension, Tyrnavos and the surrounding region. [[At this point, F Vice-President George Lambroulis presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] We say that the government will have to give solutions. It's a mockery of these P.S.S.A.s. Excuse me, Minister. Didn't you say the other day that the ministry has 13 to 14 million euros for the farmers in Tyrnavos? Where? There's no money right now. There's nothing else to mention in the CFDs. We say they are compensated, but they are "characterized" by the ELGA. They pay, as has been said in a previous question, only for an application to ELGA either for a layer of 1 euro field, or for the animal lost because of a 2 euro fire, only for the application, apart from the double and the three-fold rafts paid to ELGA, to be compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Lambroulis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u167	So what's going to happen? And we're saying immediate measures now. All right, farmers, for example, will be waiting in May to see how many olives have remained viable! What will happen until then? How will they live? That's what we're waiting for. There is also a need for state intervention. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and an attendant of the Private General High School. MALLIA’ (Third Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Lambroulis, you have been generalized, as always the debate. What I have to tell you is that we're talking about a certain fire, which has destroyed a particular area. So for this fire we also talk about the surfaces that have been destroyed are mainly forest characters. You realize that there, apart from proclaiming these lands as resurrectors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u170	No forest burned, Minister, dry mountains were around. Olive trees were burned. I didn't generalize. My question was about olive trees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u171	I'll go there, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Lambroulis, let it be done, because we won't finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u173	So you are particularly referring to tree crops, to these olive trees that I have told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u174	I didn't mention tree crops. My question was about olive trees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u175	So the procedure is specific, and I can tell you that for these trees the damage will be estimated in the new blast period, because this is the case. You know the olive trees go through the fire with the help of the wind. The consequences are not what they seem to be at the time. They'll show you the next period I told you. From that point on, they are not covered by the ELGA regulation. What we are doing is through the procedures, the so-called MAGPs, which refer to loss of income, to try as quickly as possible to haunt this dossier. But we can't haunt him before the next blast period arrives. We're filing the file. From that point on, you know that we've even got PSCE loose ends even over the past few years. And of course, there's a roof in the PSEAs. At the level of the year we cannot exceed EUR 15.16 million. Consider what has happened in 2016 in terms of weather and natural disasters throughout the country, to see if we can and can cover the damage. Because you are already invoking the Solidarity Fund. And that Solidarity Fund always wants to keep giving it to us from the European Commission...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u176	I didn't say anything about a Solidarity Fund. I talked about the mockery with ELGA and the mockery with the PSAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Bright, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u178	Let me finish. The European Commission does, but it does, on the basis of specific regulations. We are trying as much as possible to get rid of all the possibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u179	We're done with this circle. However, if I may make a comment, it has happened in the last month and I have presided at least ten times on the same questions from colleagues from all the parties. However, we must do something to group them together, because ten times the Minister comes and I have heard the same answers ten times. I understand the need for every fellow Member for his prefecture, but I really happened to be in the Bureau in question for the third time about Larissa. It was not all your questions, of course, Mr Lambroulis, but I say it as an observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u180	From there to understand that the problem is acute. Of course, the Minister did not answer our question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u181	All right, Mr. Lambroulis, now you're the Vice President and you know. We're moving on to the last two questions. The twelfth will now be discussed under number 67/10-10-2016, a topical question of the second question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the new burglary in the Theatre Museum. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Baltas. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. My question is about an area that you know, too, very well, since you were mayor of Athenians. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is finally debated today, after three redeposits that have been made, the timely question concerning the theft of the Theatre Museum, which is also a Centre for Study and Research of the Greek Theatre. The Ministry of Culture, acknowledging the dangers of the museum's archive, remained in today's site since February 2016, had announced its decision to relocate to the Athens Concert Hall. Since then events have taken place that have made this relocation even more urgent. In May 2016 the theft of the busts in the Spiritual Center's garden and the effort to remove the bust and bust of Aimilios Veakis from the entrance of the museum, and on September 24, the new burglary of material and archive. And for the debts that are drowning in the museum, it is debts created by grants owed by the Ministry and never paid off. We're waiting for an answer. The delay in discussing the question, because of the SYRIZA Conference, does not surprise us, because it is an example of how the government understands Parliament's work and prioritises priorities. Above and above all, the party. But you know that the problems that exist, the debts that exist, and the possible other vandalisms or burglaries, are not expecting any conference to be discussed or to take measures. The last tragic event with burglary is another proof that the Ministry is unable to implement its own decisions, putting at risk and depreciating a national heritage, because this museum - you know it better than anyone - is a museum unique in its kind. So, Minister, you ask: First, when will the Ministry implement its commitment from 16-2-2016 to the relocation of the Theatre Museum to Athens Concert Hall? Secondly, what action has he taken to protect his record - as long as he is, of course, after the constant thefts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u183	Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u184	Mrs. Kefalidou, you're too general, I'd say, but I'm not going to answer that. I will say, however, that when you have a question like the one you are asking today, at least you must know what has become of Parliament in relation to the issue you raise. I have here the record of the written answer to Mr Güleka in April, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. In relation to what you are asking, repeating something that is not true, I am reading the Ministry's press release on September 28 in relation to publications: "For once again it is falsely written that the Ministry of Culture owes money to the Study Centre, i.e. the Theatrical Museum. We recall that it does not belong to the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture. However, from 2007 to 2012 it was financed with EUR 1.7 million.’ It is a press release from September 28th from previous governments. The previous governments, without being a supervised body and at a time of 'boneless cows', gave - and rightly so - grants, if there were any money. But he was unable to check what happened to the 1,7 million euros and the Theatrical Museum is currently in debt about 800 thousand euros. These are all recorded in press releases officially. So please, when you ask a question, see the story before you get to the next theme. How's the story? The material of the museum is not part of the Theatrical Museum, it belongs to the Society of Theatrical Writers and has given it to the museum as an institution, to use and highlight it. The Society of Theatrical Authors has denounced the contract with the Theatrical Museum and wants the material back. When we learned that, firstly, we did everything we could to save this very important material and secondly, we understood that where it is too much damage and open to thefts. It is not our responsibility to keep the space of the Athens Spiritual Center, obviously. I hope you're not counting on me as well. However, the dangers are great and we have to do everything in order to preserve the record and to restore it. For in those years that have remained there unstable, unprotected by natural damage in space, etc., it has been damaged. That's the data. Next is, we obviously made moves to move in. The idea was to transfer to the Congregation of Music. It's not a decision, it's an idea. He accepted the Congregation of Music to be transferred there, but he remained the question of debt, which is currently in the Theatrical Museum, which is around 700,000 euros. We don't have 700,000 euros as a ministry to do this job. However, we have addressed the Foundation. He promised to help. We talked to the Society of Theatrical Writers again, on the one hand, and I'll tell you in the dentistry now what exactly we're at.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u185	Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the position of the Ministry is well known. Because you also recommended me to be a better student, so I'm telling you that the Ministry's positions are known. But I did not receive my questions. You repeat one wish that, yes, it should, because it is unique in its kind and you recognise it, be transferred. I wonder why you're waiting for your dentistry to tell us something more, because this position of the Ministry is not a supervised body, the Theatrical Museum is known by your announcements. However, previous ones from you gave for the needs of the museum in a difficult period in 2007-2012 grants amounting to EUR 1.730,000. This was not done by delight, but precisely because the meaning and value of the archaeological material and in general the Theatrical Museum, which the state must protect. Do not forget that it is doing a unique work. It has free entrance, it's open to schools, universities, press and, as you know, to court decisions, the unpaid President of the Theatrical Museum is in danger of confiscation of his personal property. May material - library, manuscripts and exhibits - belong to the Hellenic Theatrical Authors Company, the company granted it since 1983 under a loan contract at the Association of the Theatrical Museum, a thousand can. What cannot, Minister, is the state, invoking bureaucratic gears and co-operations that began with the Hellenic Theatrical Authors' Society to resolve legal and economic issues, to risk and risk the destruction of cultural heritage, part of which is the collection in the Theatrical Museum. It is clearly a matter of luck that today's debate is not taking place at the expense of another fourth burglary in the museum, to lift it up all this time, assessing the indifference of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u187	You insist on the characterizations they don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u188	Minister, I'd like to give you an update on whether I can help you in dentistry. You should know that it's typically like you said, because I lived these as mayor of Athenians. However, for my day, and not with the municipality's money, but with the money from "THESEOS", the Minister of Interior bought a renovated old building on Metropolitan Street, just in the sanctuary of Metropolitan, on the other hand, four floors, for which we decided then as a Municipal Council to relocate there the Theatrical Museum and indeed, because the underground space had developed it, to take the form as a theatrical workshop and to be given free of charge to young actors in alternating performances. A press conference was held in the presence of Mr. Georgesopoulos, President of the Association of Greek Authors and more than a hundred Greek actors, older and younger. The elections are here. They weren't re-elected. This building on Metropolitan Street remains empty. Six months ago, I was informed that there the Mary Callas Museum, which I had, was ready and was only inaugurated in Technopolis, with what we had from findings from Maria Kallas - archaeological material, clothes and things like that - and five years now this building, which may not have been paid by the Municipality of Athens, but paid for by the Greek state, is empty. It was from the program "THSESEOS" and the money was provided by the Ministry of Interior. So, in your thoughts, put this on, because it's a sin of a building of about seven hundred, eight hundred square meters on the three floors and the basement - if I remember correctly - left empty. I'm sorry to have taken the floor, but maybe this will help you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u189	You're welcome. That really helps, because you didn't understand perhaps what I said in my previous position. I said that the EUR 1,700,000 that the state gave to the museum was never checked, because despite EUR 1,700,000, it currently owes EUR 800,000. That was never checked. I repeat that it is not the responsibility of the Ministry to administer this money - and perhaps the previous ministries - but it wants to talk about it in terms of debts. What I charged you with, if the expression is allowed, is that it is not a supervised body of the Ministry of Culture and, therefore, the economic problem of the Theatre Museum is not, formally and not essentially, to solve our Ministry. That's all I said. On the substance of the matter, we are committed - because we fully agree with the value of the museum and its exhibits - to do everything possible to save this museum. We've moved a few steps further, by coincidence yesterday. Irrespective of the fact that your question has come to the Ministry, all the stakeholders have come to discuss in detail a new proposal for housing, namely housing with the help of ERT, which will also help to repay the museum's debts to a place that ERT grants us and beyond that, on the basis of which the collections can be exhibited either here or there, to bodies that are more appropriate at some point to host this collection. From there on, we proceeded to proclaim all the museum exhibits in a monument, because once the declaration has been made, grants and all the relevant instruments are allowed. Thirdly, after we have been proclaimed, we are organizing the process of keeping the exhibits before they are relocated and transported to the new space. Yesterday, by coincidence - I mean, regardless of the time the question was asked - there were together, at a joint meeting, Mr. Theocharakis, on behalf of the Megaros, Mr. Livathianos, on behalf of the National Theatre, Mr. Major, on behalf of the Ministry, officials who have a relationship with maintenance and with intangible cultural heritage, and we all take the next steps, considering that ERT's offer is very important because it unblocks the issue of debts, which was not our business to move on. Therefore, you must not whisper the Ministry that, in a year or a year or so we are there, solves the problem, which has not been solved - and Mr Kaklamanis has previously demonstrated it - by the previous governments. Mr President, I have nothing more to say. I also give the above-mentioned documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u190	Minister, on 16 February you committed yourself to something that has not happened. Thank you very much for your briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u191	Okay, that's a relatively good development. Of course, it is the Theatrical Museum of the City of Athens and should not go to an area - from what I understand - that is to be stored at the ERT and simply pieces of it going to exhibitions. Another permanent theatrical museum that's visiting and another...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u192	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u193	Of course, it is a solution in the face of what is now there, but it is not what the Theatrical Museum deserves. We move on to the last timely question, to which the Deputy Minister, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, will answer. The sixth will therefore be discussed under number 68/10-10-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of National Defence, on the devaluation of the Greek Defence Systems. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. It's the third question I ask the Minister. In February and March of this year, I asked him again about NSAs, because my tactics, as government-controlled parliamentarians, are not to choose many issues, but to the issues that I choose to come back to. I say this, Minister, because it is proved that the seal of bureaucracy has entered the moment the commander, the citizen, finds that the time that counts for him is not the same as that of the ministers. The ministers have their own time, they say 'let's see' and mean two years, which as a member of the governments I have taken care to avoid, and I have managed to do so in this respect as to the speed of my actions. The Greek Defence Systems, as they say - third parties not me - and I read on "militaire.gr", are being led to slow death. It had been made by Mrs Gennamas of the attempt to rescue the previous government. And this was also to be applied by the "Tlea from the back", that is, the one who catches the coal! And I don't see anything going on in all the issues, which I will talk about very specifically in my dentistry. But I am waiting, Minister, for you, who told me in March that you were going to testify to the House and for nothing, because if there is no - I want you to say that I am really wrong - I want this - and that you have done 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' and 'd', and badly the workers do not know. But since you know that, it's just a few days' time to find out. That is the answer that the Minister has to give after what he said in February and March.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u195	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdo, first of all, allow me to make an assessment of your questions. It is true that you have asked three questions which, although you have changed them sometime during your first speech, I find them good and correct, in the sense that you are looking for it and following it, you do not stay in newspaper articles or without a second reading, but you ask people - and you do - and you do - and you learn things. This really is pleasant, in the sense that it's a help to my own business. In fact, I would urge you, without suggesting you, to be your case - as Democratic Reconciliation I mean - to organise a visit with the clubs and with the management of the company, to have more direct and direct information, but also to exchange thoughts in the sense that you - I mean, as Democratic Association - can contribute from your side. Secondly, expressing your concern, I tell you that we share it, except that I cannot simply - nor you, of course, but from another point of view now - worry about it, I have to do things. That is the main issue. Our issue concerns the whole defence industry, which is why I am giving a lot of time, sometimes overcoming my responsibilities, that is also operating as manager of companies, rather than as political manager. I'm going to keep doing this because I have three problems. I'm coming to NSA. The three problems of the NSAs are their story. No one can tell me anything, because I'll get the paperwork on what they owe. It's the ninth red company in Greece. But I can't use history as an excuse. That is the issue. Secondly, a bad agreement, the signing of the then Deputy as government, and today's President of PASOK, which, on the one hand, I must honour to see what the possibilities are for me to work further. And the third major problem, which you are pointing out, is that of the organization on the one hand of the programme and of liquidity on the other. As far as the programme is concerned, you're wrong. And you will allow me at the end of the meeting to give you the entrepreneurial plan. I don't submit it to the House in the sense that it doesn't have the owner's seal, I mean the Ministry of Finance. When he has the seal, I'll give it to you. I will also give you the Eurogroup agreement together. That is the issue. So today one can also say in the final decision that the company has a programme. The second issue is that of liquidity. Let's see what we and the administration did. The first issue was to use - and that is very important - an asset. And what we are doing is an RAS - ELPE for Elefsina, which jointly appreciated the TEI that it was worth over 20 million. The first 10 million will be awarded with the engagement, i.e. with the first signature of the contract and the other 10 million will be provided in six months. Secondly, we have finally resolved the issue of 'BALTIK SKAI', an issue that has been coming for too many years. The port should therefore be given another 3 million in the next few days. I'd say it's a source, a 23 million-dollar financing pond that comes to be added to the business plan that you'll get and see. The third thing we have to do - and I think I am replying very specifically - is the fact that we need to see how the old agreement with Iraq can be exploited. It is a sum exceeding 100 million. And the fourth is to see how this problem of funding will solve not only the wage problem of workers, but also the problem of raw materials, so that contracts can also come out. Because in 2015 it was closed with 108.565.442 euros, which should not be lost. If we only add to this the 23 million of the "Oto Melara" of the Hellenic Navy and what has happened, which has been compromised in 2016, plus the other possibilities and contracts that have been made at this time - some of which, and I mean the Democratic Compact, you have strengthened them - then three things are created: we solve the immediate problem of payroll, we create a first basis for continuous financing and, if you like, the way in which CSMs can escape their own crisis. The fifth issue that needs to be done immediately - and here I must say that if you are criticising, I agree - is the capitalisation of the debts of the NSAs - which has been delayed - which will give them breath in relation to taxation and insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u197	Minister, because of your interest I have spent twice as much time. But that won't happen in your dentistry. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u198	I thank the Minister for his good words - which I also pay back - and for his consistency in parliamentary control, but also for his long history in politics, because he is a consistent man and I know him from his action to local government long before he becomes a Member and a Minister. However, in addition to this assessment, it is a given, Mr President, that I told the Minister of Justice this morning and the Minister of Justice this morning - that for a two-year crisis government it must also be an apology time, an apology time. Because all the governments from the EDF, and then that coincided with the great economic crisis, were so seated. Now we're going to the real thing and not to the intentions. After two years, we say what you did and not what you thought you should do or what you thought was good. And here the report is very pitiful, it's nothing. And the remodeling - which was announced about this morning - does not save a government from this downhill. Of course, the Minister now says that what I told you in March so much, I'll give it to you now. And that's something I think is good. And I reserve to say a more good word, I don't smoke. The opposition wins me, if that's reasonable, but I want to see the documents, which he will operate for me, and I thank him for that. Because at the same time in AUSA an exhibition of 2016 that went to the U.S., there was willingness from the Americans to cooperate, but unable to commit to timetables for ours. And now I say, who's right? What the workers and the market say, or what the Minister says here today? But I'll see. At the same time, I tell him that we had organized it for Monday and went back a week. We thought of her as a method of visiting to tell us, too, officially. And you still owe me an answer on the redundancies you said you'd see. You owe a reply to Mr Flavouraris, who told the workers that since 5.8 he does not know if the payroll of September will come out and excluded them from the company's financial contribution. And you also owe me one answer - of course, you have now said in your closure - that the company has no tax information. He's in trouble. In this, what solution will be given? Finally, a reference to something more general, Mr President. You see I'm trying - and in the morning and now - to be in my time. We had haunted the Prime Minister when he said that for television licences he knows what the decision is, in the sense that it would be insane to have anyone else. He told it at the exhibition of Thessaloniki. SYRIZA's answer to this is that "but you say about unconstitutionality." We have a duty to check the constitutionality of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, and we are also making an official interpretation. And that's what we have to say if we believe others to say it's constitutional. We cannot prejudge decisions. So today, in the 'REAL FM' morning, what did the Minister of State say, Mr President? He said it would be a blow to democracy if the Council of State voted in favour of unconstitutionalism. But it is because of this topic that you have made unconstitutional law, that you have insulted the Constitution, that you have not admitted it and that you want to prejudicate the decision of the Council of State. An anti-democracy factor is the violation of the Constitution and not its application! And finally, my last phrase is that he said it - from what REAL FM says - that it will be a surprise to him - listen - if we take a decision on Wednesday. What does that man say to us here? Is it a delirium? Is she okay? Are these speeches from the Minister? Are there any words from a member of the executive and legislative function addressed to the court? Let's be a little held up. The arrogance of power does not cure any disease. On the contrary, it exacerbates the diseases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u199	All right, well, it's sure Mr. Vits will answer on that as well now. I'm not allowed to make any comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u200	I'm not saying that to answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u201	But what Mr Pappas says does not mean that we all have to accept it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u202	I would just like to say one word. Mr Loverdos, as a Member and as a constitutionalist, if I am not mistaken, knows and should know that the basis for struggling and corruption, which is recognised, is the existence of a law. If there is no law, then we are going back to a situation, not just of lawlessness, but of corruption and of diffusion. So this is the main issue. Of course, I want to say here that the Council of State will do its job. It is not right to start saying what he will do and what he will not do politically. Let's get this thing straight. Secondly, by coming to what you said, I will add that in this period of five to six months, which we are mentioning, we have solved the problems relating to PSUs, that is, we have created and placed administration and started the procedures for the completion of the agreement made by Mrs Gennimata, with the best of the Greek state - if you want - to do so and hopefully to do so. And it's gonna be a good result, because only good result can we get out of there. For what you said about the workers, I will read you three lines from their announcement on 19 month, as they are said: 'We have had to ask for government intervention, for which until now we have a positive picture. We discussed with the government solutions to the essential problems of the company and made an evaluation crisis without, unfortunately, having similar cooperation with the administration." And I must tell you what has happened only in the last few months: on 16 May I had a meeting with the management and directors of the factories, on 14 July there was a meeting with the unions - I am talking about the formals - on 19 July there was a meeting at Maximos with the Minister, Mr Flavouraris, on 11 August, a meeting with the CEO and a training team of the business plan was held and on 25 August we saw representatives of the unions again. I mean, we're in a permanent relationship. And to be clear: when I activated the last EUR 5.700,000 that came from the agreement - they had not entered the 2016 budget, but entered as reserve - and by a letter from the relevant Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, we have made it clear - in my opinion this is another order of debate - that this is the last money we can give to the NSAs within the competition committee. And we started this whole process for what I told you, while the business plan had begun since March, as I told you. The submission of the initial business plan began on 5 August 2016 to the relevant Ministry I mean, the revised and final one and with the comments of the Ministry were submitted on 25 September. With the seal now on the Ministry of Finance and the KISYP, I imagine that the road opens on a matter: financing in some way - you will see it in the business plan - so that there is the possibility of buying raw materials, so that contracts can be executed quickly. You have rightly said that, not only in 'AUSA' but also in 'EUROSATORY', there is a great deal of house disposal abroad for cooperation with the NSAs. We - and the administration and the Ministry - must find the way in which we are going to overcome the financial problems, i.e. liquidity problems. Because both the managers and the administration agree that we now have the possibility of putting all production lines forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u203	Good, Minister. You'll give the business plan to Mr. Loverdos and everything's fine. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-21-S1-commons.u204	With the consent of the House at 13.07 p.m., the sitting on Monday, October 24, 2016, at 17.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 1/14-10-2016, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
