ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's authorisation from 29-11-2016, the minutes of the LG's meeting, Tuesday 29 November 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Simplification of procedures for setting up undertakings, lifting regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions’.]] I see only one Andrea celebrating, Mr. Loverdo. We wish him "happy years" and those who celebrate, of course, Andreas and Andrians, in the House, MPs, associates, workers, police officers. Before entering the agenda, I have a statement to make to this House: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development ‘New institutional framework for economic activity and other provisions’. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students, as well as two teachers from the 2nd Kamaterou General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue Thursday 1 December 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 213/15-11-2016 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the completion of the project of the Marina Messlogi. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 226/18-11-2016 topical question by MP II of Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, regarding the non-payment of one-off to the lawyers of Athens. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by no. 572/21-10-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the procedures and implementation of the plan to divert the Platy River to strengthen the Fascinated Dam. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'New institutional framework for economic activity and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 25 November 2016 decided to discuss the draft law at a meeting. I propose that the debate should become uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Three amendments have been tabled so far. The debate will also be open. In other words, anyone who wishes to speak will do this by electronic recording, which will start as soon as Mrs Jakri comes up, and will close as soon as Mrs Bakoyannis comes out of Step. We don't put a limit on discussion, because we don't know yet how many people will be registered. After we see how many people are registered, then we can put about the time this session is over. The Minister said he wants to hear the general rapporteurs and special speakers first and will speak immediately afterwards. Parliamentary representatives will then be followed. Is there any objection to a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I mentioned it yesterday. Of course, yesterday's procedure was the organised debate on a draft law with urgency. Today the framework is more extended. We have greater opportunities and opportunities. This draft law, which deals with licensing, i.e. the practical possibility of entering the labour market, entrepreneurship, economic life, contains a first part, which is very critical. It could also be useful for the operation of the economy by tomorrow morning. Mr President, in order not to be the ministers for reasons of bureaucracy, more detailed and more reactionary to economic activity, Parliament should be aware of what it is voting on. The committee may have accepted the proposal of the Conference of Presidents - all this has been done properly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - but the sovereign House must see that the opportunities to vote on such draft laws, which may be useful, are very few. It's minimal. And this might be the top one. It is wrong to go to one day's debate, because problems may arise with the first articles of this law, which, if the government sees them otherwise, will be unleashing forces of the economy. I therefore recommend that the parliamentary groups be placed and that we change this procedure. I invoke Rule 109(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the Minister comes here, as a representative of bureaucracy and not of administration, and suggests things that will not mean anything to the economy in the next two years at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Loverdos, as you know, of course that can be typically done. The Session is the Session, but the principle of the nomination applies in plenary. If, therefore, the two parliamentary representatives of the two governmental parties insist on this, it makes no sense to waste time, vote and place all the parliamentary representatives. So I ask Mrs Vaki whether or not she accepts Mr Loverd's proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u6	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Lazarides on behalf of the ANELs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u8	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u9	The Minister, I guess, no. So we keep going, and I invite Mrs. Jackres to Step. Because it is a single debate, it is time-intensive, it is 15 minutes. As soon as Mrs Vaki goes up, please open the electronic records to see how many colleagues will be registered. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of proposing to the House the bill entitled 'New institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions', which deals with the reform of the licensing procedures for enterprises, with the aim of improving their operating environment through the reduction of bureaucratic burdens, but without any reductions in the public interest. The satisfaction is twofold, because from the position of the State Secretary for Development, which the Prime Minister trusted me to the recent reform, I have had the opportunity to coordinate this key legislative initiative to overcome the deep economic recession, which has plagued our country in recent years. It was a difficult project, both in terms of its coordinating part and in terms of study, because it covers almost all economic activity and all public administration. We had to deal with a rival law, with a number of overlapping provisions, but also with chronic ineffective practices of management and morbid attitudes, established interests, hostile to any change. The pressure of time was, in fact, great, because reversal of the recession is a demand for survival for our own country. A year after this attempt began, I can say that we did it. I am proud that I recommend to this House a draft law with bold changes, as I will explain below, which radically change the permit map in our country, after exempting more than 85% of the economic activity from the obligation to issue a licence and, in particular, with minimum authorizations, a joint ministerial decision for each industry so that it becomes active immediately after its vote. Allow me, however, before I begin the presentation of the bill structure, to state assumptions regarding the diagnosis of the problem in the licensing sector in our country and the specifications on which the proposed solution was based. The starting point in diagnosing is that the deep economic crisis that has plagued our country in recent years is not only a result of choices at the level of macroeconomic management, but is mainly the result of our systematic failure at the institutional level of the state organisation. At the heart of the claim that what we are experiencing as a productive crisis today is a crisis of governance lies the regulatorial role of the state. There we have failed to effectively regulate production activity from its birth to its cessation. It is, I would say, universally acceptable to all of us that the state, in order to ensure the public interest, must intervene and regulate economic activity. The regulatorial role of the state is the least that needs to be done to defend the public interest in the best way possible. Consumer protection, environmental protection, health and safety at the workplace, public health, and ensuring compliance with the agreements concluded at the level of the economy, free access to public goods and services are issues that go through the State's regulatory role. They are crucial issues for people's lives and business activity, which the failure of their effective regulation translates at the same time into a failure to ensure the public interest and the aberration of healthy business. The often observed not only in our country, but in almost all developed democracies, over-regulatory procedures and demonstrable administrative procedures are accepted to lead to opacity and corruption. In the early 1980s some proposed deregulation as a solution and identified the best regulation with the smaller state. Today the dominant trend in the regulatory practice of developed democracies is a search not of the lesser but of the effective reorganisation of economic functions, which ensures the public interest in societies, without drowning but, on the contrary, facilitates creative business forces to develop. Today it has dominated that the optimal regulatory environment, and not tax havens, can become a comparative advantage for a country to attract resources and investments for its development. I think we will all agree that the Greek licensing system is characterised by a wide dispersion of involved operators. No state-of-the-art management tools are exploited, there is a shortage of support systems and a significant automation deficit. The study carried out in the current situation showed that, unlike advanced systems of other Member States in the European Union, the existing system is based too much on ex ante authorisation procedures, while ex post controls, where they are carried out, are limited to opportune complaints, without a specific target and plan, on the basis of the real risk to the public interest. Law 4262/2014, at the level of proclamation and philosophy, moved in a direction of simplification. However, due to the need to issue the general operating conditions as a precondition for exemption from an authorisation activity, it was found to be difficult to implement, and was never implemented. The lack of ready standardised general operating conditions for each economic activity and the number of planned exhaustive provisions, in many cases of presidential decrees, made the implementation of the law impossible. While the New Democracy was celebrating the great section that it legislated in the field of company licensing, it proved to be an empty shirt in practice. Our Government thus decided to proceed with the present replacement of Law 4262/2014, adopting a new simplification methodology. The method, as proved, is functional for the first three areas of its implementation and will be applied by 2018 to the entire economic activity. I would like to stress here that this legislative initiative is not abolished by primary legislation simply by an authorisation, as was done by Law 4262/2014, but also by all unnecessary supporting documents, effectively reducing the involvement of the administration through administrative acts at the start of business, thus hitting drastic reasons for delay and possible corruption. The new draft law seeks to resolve the chronic nuisances of the company licensing framework by introducing new concepts and new tools to promote this new reform model. Priority was given to the three main sectors of the economy: the processing of food and beverage, sanitary shops and tourist accommodation, due to their contribution to the GDP of the country, but also to the dynamics that these industries have to create new jobs. With the same methodology and new legislative initiative, we will move forward with the gradual submission of new economic activities into the new private framework. What, however, are the innovations of the proposed draft law today? Firstly, it radically changes the procedure for the licensing of undertakings. Existing authorisations - ‘obrela’, including individual licences and supporting documents, are repealed and replaced by specific authorisations, for example a fire safety licence to ensure a public interest. The tripartite start-up scheme is adopted, without any prior conditions for activities freely carried out by prior notification and prior approval. The notion of disclosure shall be introduced for the first time. Notification shall be made to inform the administration by the person concerned of the commencement of the business in question, at a particular place and on a specific establishment. After submission, the person concerned may immediately commence the operation of his business and be re-checked. The concepts of disclosure and approval are only linked to criteria of risk to the public interest. Notification shall be required in cases of economic activities having a low or medium risk at the level of risk, such as to justify the obligation to inform the administration of their initiation so that it can exercise the necessary ex post controls. Where an economic activity is deemed to be of increased risk, it shall be subject to prior approval, necessary for the commencement and operation of the economic activity. The authorisation may include any form of authorisation, attestation, certificate and others. For the first time it is stipulated that the checks will be carried out ex post, i.e., i.e., not ex ante, in advance. At the same time, a strict system of penalties and fines, the amount of which varies widely and depends on specific factors, intended for the law. The penalties provided for in existing legislation remain slow and may even lead to the closure of the operation, always depending on the seriousness of the infringement. The basic principles of the audits, which are the basis for the proper exercise of control powers by the administration, are laid down. Control may also be granted to individuals. A key tool and innovation in the new licensing system is the Integrated Information System for Activity and Control. The information system will support the process of notification and approval, as well as the planning and implementation of the audit procedure, on the basis of public interest risk management criteria. The system will also set up an integrated register gathering information for each undertaking separately on the notification it has submitted, the approvals it has received and the checks it has submitted, and the level of risk to which it is assigned. It provides for the exchange of data between the OPC - ADR and GEMI, the General Secretariat of Information Systems and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue of the Ministry of Finance, as well as for the interoperability of the system with other databases operating within the public administration in the context of the exchange of data. I would now like to come to the special part of the bill and first of all to the food and beverage industry. First of all, I should like to say that the simplification in this area, which has been done, in relation to the old regime, relates to the replacement of the majority of licences with notification, except in cases of processing of products of animal origin and sugar production. The supporting documents required for the operation of the operation shall be kept in the records of the undertaking. The obligation to obtain a certificate of suitability and assent to health suitability shall be abolished and the checks shall be carried out ex post on the basis of a risk assessment, with the exception of the areas to which I have referred to the authority. In health stores, the main reform concerns the replacement of the licence by simple notification. An important step is the abolition of the pre-authorisation procedure by the hereditary administration, which greatly reduces the administrative burden on the businessman, but also the phenomena of delays and rejection of approvals for reasons other than those required by the new legislation. The reform promoted in sanitary shops is as follows: an application to the public service of the municipality, control over the services of the municipality, on the basis of the relevant legislation, a certificate head of the respective services of the municipality, notification to the municipality or the JEP and subsequently to an electronic system, without any justification. The supporting documents shall be kept at the establishment, the supporting documents shall be simplified and their number reduced, simple notification of the use of music, maintenance of the licence, in accordance with the existing framework. Time for notification and start of operation: zero days. The checks, as I have said, are being transferred at the time the operation takes place, i.e. in real working time. In the tourism sector, and in particular with regard to tourist accommodation, the supporting documents required for the start of their operation are simplified. The scheme, in accordance with the new framework, shall read as follows: grant of the special operating signal within twenty-eight days after the complete operation of the electronic system or by 30 September 2017 at the latest, replacement of the special operating signal by notification. The owner will be able to work directly on his tourist accommodation. Where the date of issue of the building licence is later than the entry into force of the law, it shall not be required to submit separately to architectural designs. Where the adoption of the decision approving the environmental conditions or the declaration of subjection to standard environmental commitments is consistent with the issue of the building licence, they shall not be required to be submitted. A fire safety certificate is now issued for capacity stores of more than 50 one beds. Optional categorisation of keys in shops related to tourist accommodation. In the case of bathing tanks, swimming pools, the licence is replaced by a notification. The supporting documents required shall not be submitted, but shall be collected and kept at the tourist accommodation itself. With regard to sanitary shops operating within the tourist accommodation, the operation process of the remaining GFCMs shall be in line with the operation process and the checks shall be carried out retrospectively, in real-time operation, on the basis of a risk assessment. Finally, this law also introduced amendments to provisions of vital importance, which were to be taken immediately. In particular, firstly, there are amendments to the provisions relating to the Pyrenees Office which were in the process and which had to be resolved immediately, which was a requirement of the Fire Service itself. Secondly, the problems of industrial activity are regulated by amending key provisions of the basic legislation, i.e. Law 3982/2011, with a view to resolving inequalities and chronic outstanding issues, with the aim of always facilitating the industrial production sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to share with you the common concern - I believe - of all those who believe that this country needs reforms. Our Parliament has passed hundreds of ambitious reform laws in recent years. However, few have been implemented. There is a huge implementation deficit. It's like we think once the law's been passed, it's been reformed. The drafting of this legislation was done precisely to have the lowest implementation deficit. It has a few authorizing provisions, as I have said, one for each sector. However, what I would like to inform the House about is that there is a concrete action plan, a concrete action plan, for the implementation of this legislation. The first priority is the implementation by means of coordinated actions of the new information system supporting the new process. A new system of controls is also planned by developing control practices based on risk assessment. Finally, the implementation of institutional changes will be based on the education and training of staff and information for stakeholders. This forms the framework within which the licensing system should be reviewed, i.e. the stage following the adoption of the reform. That is where we have to fight from the outset, ladies and gentlemen, and this battle must not be lost. The country and healthy entrepreneurship have no other endurances to endure, in the name of the public interest, parasitic behaviours of established micro-stakeholders. We have to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u11	The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must admit that I have carefully followed Mrs Jackés to describe the content of the new bill and the logic of this bill, and I do not hide from you that I have been confused. I was confused between the words and actions of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Why, what are the actions of its government? First of all, when he took over, he had Law No 4262/2014, which provided for precisely the facilities, the abolition of bureaucracy for licensing, a bill that he had actually welcomed at the time the entire business community. For this bill, indeed, the Minister at the time, Mr Hatzidakis, had already made decisions so that he could facilitate its implementation. As I mentioned in committee, the Minister at the time, Mr Stathakis, at the beginning, said that improvements were needed in the bill. We've been waiting for the improvements. We didn't see them. The Deputy Minister then announced a settlement on November 10, 2015. Then Mrs Jackrey was responsible for this. Then, on March 29, 2016, it was announced to the KYSOP that it would be ready in June, so that we finally end up bringing the bill the other day, that is, November 2016, and in particular in accordance with the urgency procedure. I, too, asked, in my naive sense,: "Why so late, you guys?" I heard the amazing news from Mrs. Jackri: 'But what do you want, Mrs. Bakoyannis? The institutions had not approved it.' They realised that the licensing of entrepreneurs, the fight against bureaucracy, the fight against the problems which in any case harm entrepreneurs is a matter for the institutions, is not a matter for the government, which is of direct interest to go ahead with this situation. I must say that such a statement by a representative of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and a representative of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL I did not expect to hear. I was expecting everything in this House, but it seems that, whatever years you've been in here, you'll still be surprised. So I am now referring to the Hatzidakis Act, which I really have questions why it did not go ahead. This law had been part of the scope of the simplification of the licensing of undertakings. He had introduced a simple licensing system, with a declaration of self-conformity, with standards and specifications per activity and with checks carried out during operation by certified bodies. In fact, it provided for the day-to-day completion of the licence in many cases. As I said before, the law hailed him the whole business community and already made decisions. For twenty-two months, from the day the SYRIZA government took over, a single ministerial decision came out. Neither the abolition of licences nor licences nor licences has continued. At a time when the economy needs to get ahead, when Greek businessmen need to make it easier for the state to open up businesses, the government has only chosen to keep feeding the monster of bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in other words, you do not believe in these reforms, you do not want them, because there is no other explanation. When do you come and bring them? You only come to bring them when the evaluation comes and you are obliged to bring them to Parliament and, in particular, to the procedure you have chosen. I wonder: Have you read the bill, ladies and gentlemen? The bill says it will come into force substantially on 1 January 2019, that is, in total we are talking about a delay of four years. Four years isn't that a lot, ladies and gentlemen? Isn't that a lot for businessmen, isn't it a lot for development, which is what it is in this country? What serious man will start economic activity in the country when he knows that everything will move about by 2019? Here we really have a difference of philosophy. Law 4662 expressly provided for the procedures to be followed for each category of economic activity. In practice, we as a liberal party accept full freedom to carry out economic activities. As an insurance policy, we give the State the opportunity to limit and control the activities that might jeopardise the public interest. But you say the opposite. No economic activity in the country may be carried out free of charge without having been subject to notification or approval. Once again, the Greek economy is making a commitment to your ideas. You are presenting, as a reform, a final state-run policy, which has proved to lead nowhere, does not facilitate entrepreneurship, does not create new jobs. Since you are champions in renames, enter with the bill new terms. After renamed troika to institutions, after discussions in the Ministries were held at hotels, authorization is now being baptized. The New Democracy would indeed expect more seriousness. The reforms that the country needs cannot be exhausted in renames and communal tricks. We have to realise that we need to move on to brave reforms and, unfortunately, you are going back to half the way, since you first restrict the scope of the law to fewer activities and you are not describing control and supervision procedures anywhere. There is a general reference to the principle, without specifying anything specific, such as, for example, the content of the autopsy process. There are questions that need to be answered, and I hope that the Secretary-General, who has collected them, will give us some answers today. In addition, consultation procedures are not defined, as was stated in detail at L.4662. You also increase costs for starting an activity, putting paradoxically where they did not exist. While the previous county provided for a misunderstanding only to economic operators under an operating authorisation, all categories are now foreseen. I ask you: is this how you facilitate entrepreneurship, at higher costs, and even 20% of revenue going to the budget? It should be noted that the paradoxes were attributed to local government under the previous regime. Now the reclassification of the offenders and the budget yields of 20% are expected to cause problems for local government agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a great debate in the committee yesterday on the issue of noise pollution and on the issue of licensing in shops. The Minister has committed himself to bringing in a specific regulation which will protect the social whole from noise pollution. I expect it to explain in detail how it will go ahead and how it will be given. Finally, you say that the licensing will be carried out through the Integrated Information System for Activity and Control, the so-called OPC - AIA. It's a very nice idea, and we don't disagree. It's really gonna speed up the process. A similar system provided for in Law 4662, but which you rename to an ICP - ICP in your loved one. Except you missed one detail. The platform you're establishing is not ready. All the operators who came yesterday requested a specific timetable for you. I hope that the Minister will testify, because I consider it extremely important, because the reality is that without this platform no bill can be implemented. In addition, the bill eliminates the possibility of a comprehensive approach to the crucial issue of commercial and industrial parks. I asked the Minister yesterday, with the proposals put forward by the New Democracy, to include it in the bill and I hope he will do so with the changes he proposes at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the New Democracy does not opposition to the opposition. As the country's most responsible political power, we support everything that improves the economic climate and creates conditions for growth. There are some positive provisions in the bill. For example, the provision for the adoption of the ‘HACCP’ self-control system for health check shops. It is the protocol on risk analysis and critical control points that ensures food quality at points of sale. It is a positive development and it will protect public health. We also positively value the classification of economic activities in a uniform way using the activity number code. This provision will facilitate interested parties and, no doubt, move in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an example of a so-called reform policy. In fact, it presents as a pioneering precursor what has been introduced by Law 4262 and at the same time abolished procedures in order to have the objective and transparent method of licensing. It unleashes the framework of supervision and sanctions, canceling the administration where its presence is required. It captures, in other words, the well-known SYRIZA recipe: a lot of communication, legislative initiatives, to ash the eyes of the partners. Unfortunately, you are a long way from the real reforms that the country needs. The bet on the New Democracy is growth. How will growth come? It will come through a new production model, which will ensure new jobs, because without growth even the deletion of part of the debt will turn. Unfortunately, I do not see the Minister for Development here, and I am impressed that the first bill which brings to the plenary session is missing by the Minister. I would, however, like to know that Mr Haritsis has the honour of replacing him, asking a few questions, and I hope he will pass them on to him. As President of the Levy Institute he proposed a parallel currency for Greece. In September 2016, shortly before the Minister is appointed, the Institute's report, which he subscribes to, states: "The economic conditions will deteriorate as new austerity measures are in place. If the Memorandum is fully implemented, then in 2016 a deeper recession is expected than the government's forecasts, with a 0.7% reduction in GDP, rather than an estimate of 0.3% of the Ministry of Finance. For 2017, a limit growth of 0,2% is foreseen.’; The government budget forecast speaks of greater growth, at 2.7%, which the Minister repeats at every interview since the Minister was sworn. So I ask you: Who should we believe? The academic or the Minister? What does SYRIZA really think and how much longer will he trouble the Greek people, trying to implement a policy that he deeply fights in? Thank you very much, and I am presenting for the Levy Institute's report on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you for keeping time. We're entering special speakers. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make a quick and brief comment on Mr Zurari's disgraceful comment to the most respected Metropolitan Ambrosios and to reply, in the words of Mr Zuraris, that this is not a hair of the most respected, to know what is going on. And these people are holding the boots in a broken and damaged society. Don't worry! Discontent with the statements of your Minister. Amid discussions on the fourth Memorandum we are now being called upon to vote on a package of measures, which are supposed to eliminate the bureaucracy and dependency that has been created by the post-cultural, in particular, status between individuals, free trade and the administration concerned. According to Mrs Jackson's admission to the relevant committees, this bill, even though it was in the consultation for eight months, has come into force, at the last minute on account of the creditors, the troika and the institutions - tell them what you want - who, firstly, show that they are themselves extremely rough and failed. After all, many of them have admitted it during the memorial times, but of course their mistakes - what if they are admitted - the Greek people take them away, the tens of thousands of Greeks who commit themselves, the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who migrate abroad, the tens of thousands of Greeks who migrate abroad, and all the figures that demonstrate how tragic and rough they are. The second element from Mrs Jacki's revelation and admission is that they are literally bringing us up and running, and these phosphites here do not add a party from what they send us from abroad. So Mrs Jackson said, in essence, that the respective ministers, the State Secretarys, who are responsible for the various bills, have a decorative role and nothing else, in essence. The most important thing of all - and we all know it - is that it is a Memorandum of Obligation and, as a Memorandum of Obligation, is the sacred cow that we have to observe unreservedly and not to see the disgraceful parts of this bill, as well as other bills. As was done yesterday in a bill - his brother - which was an article infamous, thanks to a friend entrepreneur, who was, of course, withdrawn after the overall reaction of the whole Opposition. This bill certainly does not solve the thorny problem of bureaucracy and dependency. On the contrary, these ties will become even tighter with what is provided for in this bill. When you give, for example, an undertaking of health interest to start its activities without having a prior authorisation, an authorisation on substance, and when any checks on its licensing will be done in the future, in general and indefinitely, is this not a relationship of dependence? Imagine that someone would invest a few thousand or hundreds of thousands of euros for a business, without knowing whether or not they would get permission at the end, not have taken the necessary pre-constitutions and it is time to check it out of the audit mechanisms, whatever they are. Is there any chance that this will not happen? Is it possible that any irregularities, errors of omissions, should not be buried under the table in the well-known neo-Greek way? No, of course not. You say the abolition of pre-approval is a good thing. But you are not telling us what is going to happen with the final approval, which also insists on what we have told you. Truly, what will happen with consumers, ordinary citizens, who will go to a business, this supposed health business, and for months or years before they get the final authorisation, will they go there and, at some point, when the audit mechanism decides that this operation stinks and lives, is true how they will be compensated? Are they going to go to court? Here's the paperwork we were talking about. Won't the bureaucracy - which you're supposed to want to eliminate - not with any objections, which are certain to be made, by appeals to the Council of State by directly interested parties or the courts and elsewhere? Because we have the phenomenon that the Council of State has so far cancelled too many Memorandum laws and changed all the plans of the governments and I see they are looking for equivalents for the abolished, other equivalents, and a vicious circle is created which does not lead anywhere. In the end, this is not a development law. Because, as Professor Zolota said, when he was a professor in the Supreme Commercial, now ASEAN, this bill mostly refers to parasitic professions, to professions that do not produce, so they do not bring growth. A very nice bar, a nightclub, really, brings growth? Does it bring growth with imported drinks, with imported food, mostly? Or does it just give a few places, which unfortunately most of them have gone to foreigners in recent years, not to Greeks? Or is the equipment, ornamentals, the seats, everything of Greek construction? Oh, no. The vast majority, unfortunately, are all imported. So all this increases our country's debt. Another facilitation and another level. You are expensive in pies and cheap in chickens once again. Since for seven consecutive years, through the memoranda, you have literally dissolved the productive tissue of the country, what was there, with its distortions and no, now you come and say that we will make it easier, as you have done a few months ago, by a development law of the plate you brought, which, of course, will never bring any growth. Others are the reforms that you should bring, so that there is growth with all the importance of the term, as the only and true pillars of a healthy society - either Greek or other - the small and medium-sized ones - are the stylists of an economy - the craftsmen, merchants, farmers and not the big funds, for which discussions are taking place and a few friends, whom you want to serve in various ways. Development will come, if at some point you decide to reduce taxation, reduce insurance contributions, reduce costs, for which, of course, you are doing the exact opposite. Continuously increasing taxation, increasing insurance contributions, unfair insurance contributions, increased operating costs everywhere. Development will come if the mechanisms of control work in perfection, so as to correct the bad texts and irregularities that break healthy competition. Development will come, if at last you decide to protect, as you have to, under the Constitution, all Greek citizens and therefore, the small and medium-sized and free professionals and all those who are currently on the hook of financial institutions, Greek and foreign, and apply the law for their benefit, so that you can give them a little light, so that they can move. We constantly see the greatness of the Greek free professional, the trader, the craftsman, who abroad, where the working environment is much better, spread, but even in Greece the time of the memorials fight and fight alone against all and all, such as winemakers. We have the great privilege of being the only country in the world - along with another one, two, but the others are not countries that produce wine - which puts a special end to Greek wine. At the same time, imported wine, imported wine, comes without that end. We are talking about competition at the expense of Greek and Greek products. The truth in this bill is that the fundamental precautionary principle is being circumvented and neoliberal principles are introduced, which allow controls to be performed retrospectively, in real-time operation, on the basis of a risk assessment. What is presented as an innovation, that, that is, the economic activity is released from the administrative authorisation and that the random check is transferred to a later stage, following the start of the operation, there is enormous risks, as I have explained to you and we will further explain to you as Golden Dawn. The health and safety of consumers is addressed as a subordinate factor in relation to the financial data of an undertaking and the revenue that the State aspires to add to the State funds, through the administrative fines established by these provisions. Instead of looking at innovations, we see extra fines, extra paradoxes, extra raisins, because only in this way, you have learned to operate. These are the most tranquil, including a sample of your incompetence in administering this place. It is indifferent for the state to safeguard the public interest, but it understands this draft law as an indirect tax-support mechanism. A characteristic example of this is Article 15. It would be right to add to administrative sanctions and to'removal of authorisation'. Hard measure, but perhaps necessary, in cases where it has been put at risk or caused damage to the public interest. So, someone who has harmed the public interest in all respects with a fine cleansing, as you wanted to do in Article 19 of yesterday's bill, and all good? We note, however, that, even here, you are applying the Stalinist concept of the present government. We refer to the over-responsibility once again granted to the Minister concerned, who will decide on the assessment and gravity of the criteria laid down in the same article, of all the theoretical criteria. The Minister's powers are particularly problematic. Since when, however, does the hunting of profits and cost savings leave room for compliance with hygiene, practice and health and safety standards? It would be nice to emphasise, because Greek citizens too are listening to us and understand much more than you think, that various committees and working groups set up in your Ministries are often done to legitimise bad texts, preconceived government choices and decisions. With regard to Article 7, 'Subject to the approval procedure', it should be noted that, firstly, it is an exception to the general rule, which, as we have said earlier, is the abolition of preventive control and the rationale for prophylaxis and, secondly, the adoption of legal instruments means giving prior consent to legality. But even this formal exemption that you introduce is limited by provision 10, which allows authorisations to be restricted for an economic activity to be restricted. To give explanations, because at least we ignore exactly where this article is intended, as well as what the terms of natural, rare or public resource mean. The sloppyness with which you and the troika are legislating - which is brought to you and swallow them unresponsively - proves to be every draft law, since you do not see to it that the text of the law has a reasonable and editorial sequence. For example, Article 21 abolishes the obligation to obtain legal conditions and refers to L.4303/2014, Article 6, where it refers to us. One can read Article 6: 'Production and disposal of vinegar'. Get the fuck out of here! Article 22 of Regulation No 853/2004 concerns the market - hygiene rules for food of animal origin, Regulation No 1069/2009 concerns the processing of products which are prohibited from being consumed by humans. These are different objects, with a different legislative framework and, in any case, Regulation 1069/2009 should not be subject to this chapter, since, as I said, they concern products forbidden to humans. Article 20(1)(6) excludes water bottling. What purposes are served by considering specific activities not as consent to health, while others maintaining it? It is clear that this draft law has been dictated to you by foreign interests, as we said before, which may not be interested in water marketing, and that is why they maintain the agreement of the administration. Article 27 of this draft law governs shops of health interest other than amusement centres, for which they are deemed to be an activity that requires ex ante control. However, it is not justified exactly what this differentiation consists of. Article 29 repeals the procedure for issuing a music licence, which is a form of safeguard for the protection of residents against noise pollution. We see that, instead of looking at serious issues, which have to do with the inhabitants of a region, their calmness, their family peace or anything else, you put them on a second or third fate, so that, as we repeat, with various articles and provisions of this bill you can serve very specific categories or even very specific entrepreneurs, with what this entails. Because noise pollution is also a form of environmental degradation under environmental law, Law 1650/1986, while the failure of the State to control it and restrict it has also been judged by the European Court of Human Rights to be a form of violation of the human right to respect for private life and housing. We generally see that this bill has nothing to do with the development of the place, with the good of the citizens as a whole, but not even with the good and the development of the specific groups to which it refers. Golden Dawn submits an amendment concerning the new institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity in this bill, on the repayment of the retirement compensation for former employees of ELVO SA. I'm filing it in the Minutes. We've shared it in this House too. From there on, it is at the discretion of the government whether or not he wants to accept it, to be discussed for vote. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 19th Municipal School of New Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Kameros General High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's economic activity bill, the government believes that it is innovating and reforming the functioning of this framework. You will allow me to tell you, before anything, that the solution that the troika is doing everything creates in extreme political groups arguments that there is absolutely nothing here in the country. It's unfair, and I'll tell you why. And for Mr. 4262/2014, who regulated the same framework, the opposition said that the troika brought him. Today - there is also a contradiction, why did Mrs Jackie say that we were waiting for the approval - the troika brings opposite law to the one that she proposed two years ago? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, to be serious. Here is an issue of continuity of our policy, in which there can be no agreement on minimums, each minister is trying in his own way to say that he has done something by putting it - my own signature, and in the end we conclude that there is no institutional framework for the people who need it. I'm explaining. Of course, yesterday, the extreme political groups did not talk about fuel smuggling. Other times, if it was about businesspeople or anything else, they'd lift the world up. We are not talking about fuel smuggling, because we know who has selective relations with all of this. Let's go to the bill. "Innovation," he says. He says 'innovation' - and I reminded him of the fact that I saw Mr Marda here - Mrs Jakri, who told us that 'in six months all the fugitives will smoke'. Fumara! Mr Mardas, who I see in front of him here, said he would bring dozens of investors from refugees and immigrants. If you ask him today if he's found one, he won't be able to tell you. Bubble there, instead of a wig. Anyway. Now let's go to this. The government says: “We are innovative. A notification and not an authorisation shall be made.’; The Minister, the partners, you all know, that on the basis of Law 4062, and I say it again - and I say it again - the joint Ministerial Decision 1268492/21-11-2014, which concerned enterprises carrying out three different activities, to which he was able to start operations only with a simple briefing in the region concerned. Who were these sectors? It was the leather industry, textiles, furniture, machinery, electronic equipment and so on. So this innovation, which Mrs Jakri was a minister, now as rapporteur, is trying to say, there was. The second concerns categorisation. It is a positive step. But did it take two years to change the bill's categorisation, to be done with CAR, while Law 4062 was based on environmental categorisation? Two years for that? Let's change him! For two years? Let's bring a change to the bill, get it over with. Where do we get back today? We said yesterday that we were positive. Why are we positive? Because the Democratic Reconciliation doesn't play games. The Democratic Reconciliation believes that through a real dialogue, it always has the country, the citizens, the professionals and not the party interest. The Minister came yesterday - we have no reason to question them, we want this to go - on the question of the Democratic Integration, to see what we will do and what we will decide, to support positively, and he says that all of this - is committed to the committee and today, possibly, to the House - will be completed in six months. In fact, if you are a government - I do not know if you will be a government, it depends on you - you have a commitment that in six months' time the integrated information system will work in the General Secretariat of Industry, all the ministerial decisions that are needed and professionals will be able to use it. We'll be positive about that. I wish, Minister, you would. We won't question you now, because we're not in that mood. These are systolic tricks. We're not symptoms. Secondly, there is one of our proposals. We want to call her. We've been calling it complete for a long time. We are pleased that the Chambers too accept it. We have a very clear view of both the previous bill and today's bill. The absolute involvement of chambers advising the State. From just a few advisors to say it in words, to do so officially in practice. The great reform of the 'one-stop Service', GEMI - which is a reform of the PASOK government, a democratic party - could unite today both the integrated system and through this whole process the Minister said that the new ministry - I do not remember what it is called - under Mr Pappa will try to unite all these processes. But if this process and our proposal were to combine GEME with the OPS - which would involve the licensing and involvement of the chambers - it would be the absolute solution for the country. This would be a real reform, which all parties could have, or at least the majority of the parties could support, stop red tape and help young entrepreneurs and young professionals very much. Minister, we spoke yesterday - and there was a contradiction among operators of tourism, to be honest - on key certification and on the various issues that have been raised. It is true that operators, too, depending on their interests and positions, have contradictory views. But there is one issue and I would ask you to look at it. I think it is about our country and it has nothing to do with any micro-party attitude. At the time of certification, while the country's major problem is quality tourism - that is, Spain took 70% and 80% of Turkey's quality tourism this year - we go to solutions that do not give quality assurance. So don't rush on that. We can also get together with the relevant ministries, and see good practices that have been carried out in other countries - and good practice is what has happened in Spain - so that together we can create a framework that, at the time of certification, we do not leave quality tourism with our vote to go to Spain. I think the issue of certification and the keys need to be seen. The issue of certification - I am glad Mrs Bakoyannis has come - is a very important issue. At a time when we - I repeat, Mrs Bakoyannis - are losing quality tourism to Spain, we need to see without micro-groups how we should deal with this issue. And that is an issue that countries like Spain have dealt with it positively, and we can do something like that. I do not want to take the floor of Mr Koutsoukos, but here you brought an amendment to EOMEMEX, for which, on SYRIZA, you were not, Minister, on ANEL, I would recall a few - put a roll-call vote. And today you are bringing in a provision which, apart from EOMEMEX, places around all other agencies. Look at what Andreas Loverdos said yesterday, that is, coming to the House, but having a little bit of tea and a little shame has a value. Say, "We made a mistake, we talked about it then, okay, guys, but now we're power, chairs, and that's what we should do." We have to move on. And to tell you, Minister, because the ministers don't understand them, you may also be in the government, what did God - Minister Chakalotos, who said, "I had to live from the weddings of Gray Kelly and Renier and Diana with Charles?" It is an official statement by the country's Minister of Finance, who negotiates the country's interests. It says "such isolation I had to live from the weddings of Grey Kelly and Renier and Diana with Charles". What does the poet mean, ladies, can you tell us? I hope the Minister knows how to tell us. A man who is currently negotiating for the country and its interests! And I'm finishing up. Minister, a big issue which is currently in existence in the country - and Andrew Loverdes raised yesterday - the question of the great investment of the Greek. After we voted three months later, the government has done absolutely nothing. We - and I think the rest of the parties are in agreement - will call for a joint meeting to be held so that the relevant ministers can come and tell us about this great investment. We are sure and want to believe that this will not only be signed by the opposition parties but also by the parties in the coup d'état if they think they want this big investment to go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I ask for the floor for thirty seconds on staff, to reply, because the honourable Member raised a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u19	Okay, I don't think he's touched you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u20	No, just a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u21	Okay, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u22	First of all, I would like to point out that my dear colleague, for the second time, of course in a selective way, has various issues which I have raised. As far as Syrians are concerned, I will note that I have never referred to dozens. I referred to an attempt which could be made to place some funds around us and which also come to Greece, but not with the intensity that needs to be done. I will note that some efforts have been made to communicate with the associations, which are here and Syria, because they are still interested in Syria's potential refugees coming to Greece as well. I will also note, since you are also a fan of best practice, that these practices here have given our neighbour five thousand Syrian refugees' businesses with 700 million investments, in another neighbouring country 220 million investments and in a European Union country a policy of attracting certain funds from small and medium-sized enterprises is being implemented so that they can survive in a decent way. These are the best practices that some love, which if they love, we copy at all our actions and not only selectively in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u23	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Constantinople, don't talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u26	Wait a minute. Mr Marda, this is the case. If these best practices exist next to our country, there is an inability to do so. Unfortunately, you have not shown that you have had the capacity as government - not personally - to do these best, operating in our surrounding areas, to do so in our country. Unfortunately, you were inadequate in that, and I mean as government, not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u27	Good. The views of both sides have been given and we are moving forward. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing is part of a bar of new anti-population measures, and I would say with great offers for capital. The basis for these proposals is the restructuring which the various imperialist organisations, such as the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the European Union, consider necessary to open up the prospect of anemical capitalist development in our country. In this first line of effort there are the multiformal aid to domestic business groups following and in conjunction with the provisions of the new so-called development law, through which simple tax exemptions, state money and other facilities are shared in the prospect of attracting new profitable investments. At the same time, the next period will also run a number of other strict restructuring bills, which are deemed necessary for the recovery of capital gains and for the attraction of new investments. In other words, we are witnessing a multiformal state support for the development of capital profits. This bill is in principle linked to the prerequisites for the second evaluation of the third memorandum. It was written with the help of the OECD and the World Bank, and it is no coincidence that it is moving in the direction of the "business world", as you say, another important reformist effort by the government. It even moves in a positive direction, as the industrialists of northern Greece called yesterday in committee. In the same direction all the representatives of our country's bourgeoisie were moved to the same committee in the debate with the institutions, and the government is appalling about the good words and credits it takes from capital. It takes courage to continue offerings to the capital with a clearer issue the new blow, which prepares for work. All of this confirms that the attack on labour rights, like capitalist restructuring on the grounds of capital profitability, will continue in the next period. And, of course, the people will pay him again. And SYRIZA is fascinating, because the demands of BSE and other businessmen are rapidly being promoted, because, as the explanatory statement says, the bill puts new speeds on the business, because they create poles of attraction for new investment, the licenses of business, which are institutionalised outlets. After strengthening business groups in every way, it is now coming to make it easier for them to invest more quickly. They are furious, but the people have nothing to gain from. What awaits them is that they continue to be the permanent mortgages of the non-domestic exploitation, since all the anti-grass measures will be of a lasting and lasting nature, unless, of course, they take the case on them, they put their own seal on developments, claiming to cover their losses, satisfying all their needs against them, of course, in their capital, the European Union and their power. The promotional policy towards capital is supported in every way by the rest of the opposition parties. For example, all of them are in agreement with the substance and objective of this draft law, which we are discussing, and which is none other than the removal of all obstacles to the exercise of capital action. Of course, they also have differences between them. However, these focus on secondary and third issues, such as who is better to implement them, who will proceed with restructuring without delay, who will be more effective. That is why the New Democracy and the PASOK invoke the previous law, which, in their opinion, was innovative, as SYRIZA maintains for today's law. In practice, they fight with each other about who is a more authentic reformer, who did most of the reforms on behalf of business groups. But all together, they want the state to stand for private initiative. It was heard yesterday in committee, and this unimportant one, that this bill no longer gives the opportunity to harm the public and bad civil servants in the business world. Of course, the report on civil servants said they wanted to keep their possessions, not to lose their authority. It seems that in the context of the conflict, they have recently discovered that there is a exploitation in our country, except that this is carried out by workers - even bad workers, in their opinion - to entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the state is not neutral, is classic. Its character is to force the will of a few to many. When the business groups are to be strengthened, the State is present. When it's about to approve pensions, then it's been delayed three or more years. The state is merciful, but only for entrepreneurs, because it has always contributed and contributed to the development of business groups with subsidies of all kinds, with public investments in their benefit. The urban state also needs restructuring. It needs to be modernised so that it better meets the current needs of capital and supports its profitability. That's exactly what you're doing with the bill you're bringing up for discussion today. In other words, you are adapting their urban structures to the current needs of capital. We, of course, do not defend the current public sector, the current state. Not at all! What we want to do, however, is to defend dignity at work, as is the rights and obligations resulting from this dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is a signal to business groups and businesses around the formation of the right investment climate. This signal is sent to the domestic and foreign capital. According to the report, "the aim is to strengthen competitiveness and create a friendly climate for businesses, which will act as a key lever for growth, while focusing on creating high legal certainty for potential investors, which is necessary, especially in the cases of foreign direct investment", i.e. attracting significant foreign investments to the line recommended by the Greek Industrial Association itself. What are you actually doing to them? You are moving towards legislation that abolishes the authorisations and controls of companies, which lead them to full liberalisation. What's your logic? That preventive controls do not offer anything to protect public health, but are a burden, create obstacles to investment, so we do not need to abolish them. That's what you're doing. And what do you do to achieve this goal? Remove the precautionary principle in the sensitive food, fire protection and the environment. The State, in other words, is dismantling the responsibility for the protection of public health and leaving it in the hands of healthcare business, assuming that competition will eliminate the risks that are created. In fact, you are dealing with health and safety as a subordinate, as a secondary element in relation to the financial data of an undertaking, which you consider to be dominant. That's where we finally learned what that is that stops investment! According to the Government, what is to blame are health, veterinary, fire controls, health and other conditions and conditions that companies must meet. It also abolishes the obligation to submit a notification, as well as a responsible statement of the operator that he is aware of the conditions to be met and that he respects them. Even this statement is abolished! To create even the impression that things are not completely uncontrollable, you are establishing the inclusion of certain business activities in the notification or approval regime only when, as you say, a public interest risk arises. Now, what anyone means 'public interest' is a big issue. In Article 3, paragraph 5, what do you say? Even for the approval regime, the competent authorities have the right to carry out autopsies and checks. In other words, control, even in these cases, is not even compulsory for autopsy. Here, in Article 12, there is talk of the whole market being controlled and supervised by an organic unit, which will organise controls. And who's gonna do these checks? The department responsible will organise the checks. This is precisely the subject of the next article, Article 13. Competent authorities may use to carry out checks and assess the findings of cooperation between private operators. These private entities may be natural or legal persons. In other words, instead of being the sole responsibility of the State for carrying out any checks left, if you vote on this bill, it is transferred to the private companies. However, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot, because you have chosen this way within the European Union and the Eurozone, in any case to invoke the European acquis. Do you not know that all food scandals have started exactly from these European countries, which food business has this operating framework, which is sealed by the profitability of business and not by the guarantee of public health? Finally, and within the time that I have left, I would like to say a few issues about the next articles in the bill. In Articles 1 to 16, which are generally mentioned in the scope, with the general principles of the draft law, we fully disagree and vote against them. We disagree because you are making arrangements that abolish authorisations and controls on undertakings which lead them to full liberalisation, because instead of being the sole responsibility of the State to carry out any controls, you are transferring them to private companies. For Articles 17 to 26, which relate to the simplification of the framework for processing and related food and drink activities, we disagree on the same grounds, not to repeat them. We shall vote against it except for Article 22, which excludes products of animal origin. But what will be the case throughout the European Union will also be the case. Even if the Rules of Procedure change, it outweighs the right of the European Union. In this sense we shall vote 'at present'. The same is true in Article 25, because competition on the basis of which the capitalist economy operates leads to the closure of small processors and to the destruction of small and poor winegrowers, despite the partly positive provisions laid down for them in this article. For Articles 27 to 39, which relate to the operation of sanitary shops, theatres and cinemas, we are opposed to Articles 28 and 29, because small businesses are involved, which has so far created great problems for those who wanted to start operation. For Article 32 concerning theatres, due to the fact that unemployment has reached no further, especially at this time, many actors are creating small forms in order to appear on the market and to exist on the market. For these groups, smaller areas are an alternative, obviously and cheaper. Such spaces are mainly created by artists. The simplification of certain procedures for the start-up of these sites plays a role in these areas. And here we shall vote 'at present'. To conclude, by addressing the workers and the people, we say to them: The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and those who show such reforms, which are laid down in this bill and satisfy the interests of the capital, those who are calling for the rapid closure of the second assessment, are provokingly avoiding the people that all of this will be accompanied by severe anti-grassroots measures, measures which will remain, which will escalate even if some form of debt relief occurs. The people have an interest in opposing the lentils they set them, telling him that by developing the profits of capital they will benefit themselves. Against all this, workers must promote their own stature, claim increases in wages and pensions, abolishing all anti-territorial laws, rights based on their current needs. No worker under 751 euros. The strike we have in front of us on 8 December will have to get personal traits. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u29	The special speaker from the Potami, Mr George Amyras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law provides us with a good opportunity to reconcile ourselves with our evil self, so that we can get to know him better and change him. What do I mean? That this draft law brings some very positive regulations, in our view, which come, I would say, indirectly and immediately forced, as a prerequisite, for the country to continue to be on the channel of financing by creditors for things that are self-evident and we should have done so for decades. Anyone who moves, whether online or in a natural presence, in Europe, will see that there the system of licensing economic activities and businesses is much simpler, much more transparent and much more effective. And is it that you wonder, for so many years in Europe, why should we be under threat of stopping funding and the memoranda, to take some steps that the rest of Europe has taken for a long time? Yesterday we discussed another draft law - and this as a prerequisite - on the establishment and simplification of the procedures for the setting up of new businesses. It's self-evident. We should have conquered them a long time ago. But it is also an opportunity - and I shall say this provocatively - to reconcile with some aspects of the three Memorandums and, of course, the last Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, which is the toughest, it seems. For example, did we need to be forced by creditors with the memoranda to vote for Law 4024/2011? What did that law say in Article 35? That any legal persons of private or public law are financed by the general government, by the money of Greek taxpayers, should be censored, namely, to account for the money they receive, for the purpose they spend, so that the Greek state can know whether or not the money they give is a place. I inform you that even today, when we are five to six years later, not all legal persons under public or private law have been registered. I have tabled questions to the government through the Greek Parliament, of course. It appears from the replies that they remain without a census, without having given a hundred and seventy-eight players of the general government, despite the fact that the law says that if they are not census, the general government should suspend their funding. There is, for example, another law, which came as prerequisites for pressure, and should be the flag of every political party and every government. In other words, depopulation - so it is written in the memorandum, so the lenders have been kindly told, but we are being dismantled - the Greek state, No.4369/2016. The National Register of Officials of Public Administration was built so that we know who works where and how there are no links and indirect funding of party mechanisms. And where you say we won a small step, you read, based on the census, the evidence announced by the State General Accounting Office for posted officials of the present government. They've exceeded every record. The appointments of poster staff have exceeded two thousand, increasing the cost of paying these officials for 2015 by 2.1%, i.e. by EUR 146 million. Think about it. Now let's go to some of the elements of this draft law. The Greek licensing system for enterprises and economic activities, as it has so far been, has been a carabinatous example to avoid. He was giving room for corruption with bureaucracy, pluralism, anti-corruption. There was no supportive system. There were no online connections. There was a puncture of responsibilities. So corruption found ground to develop. A walk in our cities and our villages will convince us the truth. Everywhere noise pollution. All over the place. Everywhere, a distortion of the licenses received by various entrepreneurs. The day before yesterday, for example, I read on a news site that a small businessman was found in the center of Athens, in the touristic Athens, in Monastiraki, who had a license for drinks and had made a restaurant in the area, even rooms that he rented with "Airbnb", i.e., semi-unreasonably. That's the kind of immunity that was. Now, what's going on? We have a shift from ex ante control of permits and authorisations to the post-procedure. In other words, let's go to disclosure and the burden falls on the audit mechanism. There, then, is what I am saying that you must definitely give us information and convince us that the new system, which now precedes the priority of public administration, will succeed and we will not achieve the same results as the present situation, where the dog is simply chasing its tail and corruption is present and the deterioration of cities is present and, of course, unfair competition against those businessmen and businesses who go with the cross in their hands is heavy and at their expense. The bet, too, is how it will be kept and how it will find a balance between incompatible activities, developed in cities, and not just. The next step should be the collection of anti-corruption and codification of laws and regulations so that no one can escape the context and the right path of the way they are licensed or the way in which businesses and activities are controlled. Here, I have some evidence I'd like to bring back. Of course, we talked about it yesterday in committee in detail. However, I would ask for some clarification on the fire safety certificates that will now be required, with regard to tourist accommodation, from fifty-one beds and upwards, and until now they have been in the 20 beds. What's the point? What's changing? Are fire needs changed in smaller accommodations than in larger ones? Is it different and should the criteria for fire safety and the need to regulate these issues be more objective and not just in relation to the number of beds? We were also very concerned about Article 29 yesterday in committee and yesterday in committee, that is, the right to use music from shops. Here, the regulation and the draft law will in practice be judged. I reintroduce what I think to the committee. The Municipality of Athens could not control anything from noise pollution, because it had everything and everything, at least as long as I was a municipal councillor from 2010 to 2014, three decibelometers. Two machines were working, counting the sound. One didn't work. After a while, it didn't work the second one either. The whole of Athens was left with hundreds of thousands of businesses, with all this noise pollution with a decibelometer. Then he asked the Region for a loan, two other small machines. That's funny stuff. As far as Articles 41 and 46 are concerned, the notification that tourist units will now be obliged to do for bathing tanks, for their swimming pools, is quite a delicate matter. You'll remember, in 2004 just before the Olympic Games, a kid in Corfu, a tourist, had drowned in the pool, because the pool was not working properly and he had caught his foot in some movie hole. I remember the impact of this bad news internationally ahead of Greece's organization of the Olympic Games. So I would also like to insist and ask whether we can guarantee the possibility and control mechanism throughout the range, because tourism Greece is huge, swimming pools are too many and a blow like what I said before, in 2004, at the expense of tourism, will be really painful for the wider area where the accident occurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u31	First of all, for the child.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u32	I mentioned it to you for 2004. I'm telling you, we don't have any new accidents. Now where do we disagree? Open door to break? You don't have to. The door's open. Come on, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, In relation to the full implementation of the provisions of the draft law: 2018 to 2019 the full implementation is placed. I'd say time's slow. It needs to be speeded up and, in order to speed up this, it must be implemented more quickly, as we have heard from the rapporteur, the information system supporting the implementation of the new regulation, the so-called OPC. When will this platform be ready? And I come to a final part of the draft law on regulations on industrial activity. So here, Minister, I will tell you something I said to the Minister of the Ministry, Mr Papadimitriou, yesterday. It is good to discuss and regulate and decide how to unlock bureaucracy and strengthen business. But here there's a mammoth in the room that we don't see. What's that? The quarantine bill. The quarantine bill, Mr Minister, has been in the consultation for twelve years, ten years on the governments of the previous ones, New Democracy and PASOK, and two years on the governments of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is the quarantine sector a very powerful and export-oriented sector, which offers much to the Greek economy. It is not only that it employs a hundred and twenty thousand workers, directly employed. It's a lot of mines we have in Greece. Mines, mines and latomy are about a thousand five hundred. They participate annually with a 3% to 5% of GDP and 70% of their turnover comes from exports. It is a very important sector. Entrepreneurs, workers, residents and those who, of course, are interested in the environment where, under what conditions and how mining, latto and other activities are controlled. Here, therefore, because they are relevant to the draft law and to the change of philosophy that prior approval will no longer be necessary, but a notification of the start of some activity, we should stop granting extensions. Your Government has given you two extensions to the operation of quarries, mines and mines. We must go to firm points on which the state too can control and entrepreneurs to develop their business and, of course, workers to be quiet and feel that they will not depend on an extension of any government to have a job. And I end up with the Greek thing. On 14 November, we voted here for the Memorandum of Understanding on the Sales of shares in "ELLENIC SA" by investors, "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" and "ELLENIC GLOBAL S.A." In its full development, this investment will bring about 2% of GDP aid. In its full development, this investment will employ seventy thousand workers. In its full development this investment will bring additional tourism to Attica about a million people. And over a decade, the direct economic benefit to the national economy will be about EUR 10 billion. So these are important elements and we are already out on the Greek investment by two years. I am learning and repeating it again - and I said this once again by this Stepma, but more discreetly, I simply did not get any answers from the government, and that is why I repeat it - that there are correspondence between the investor and the Greek State, in which correspondence arises on some issues I would say unpleasantly about both sides. Please tell us whether the investment is progressing on the basis of the timetables, which we, too, voted here with the ratification of the memorandum of understanding between the two sides. Also, what will happen with forests and the proclamation of new forests and the proclamation of various buildings as traditional and preserved, which, as I learn, are now additional to the two declarations made by the Ministry of Culture and in 2004 and 2009. These are questions, therefore, which indicate that the government should work in both bets and velvets! In conclusion, Mr President, I tell you that we shall vote in favour of the draft law at first instance. Some articles want clarification and we will then be placed, of course, waiting for the Minister's replies. Otherwise, I think it is a step forward to free economic activity from suffocating control, but where corruption is often concealed by jurors, corrupt public administration officials at the expense of what they are trying to do in Greece in an environment that is suffocating and difficult. These delays and these perceptions are leading us to the fourth memorandum, which I hope we will avoid, because it will be the absolute collapse of Greek society and culturally and morally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u33	First of all, the Minister asked me to leave for two minutes for his personal need. That's why he's missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and five educational sessions from the General School of St. Stefanos Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister will be back soon, so don't interrupt. I invite Mr. Georgios Lazarides, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I too welcome the students and wish them good progress. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which we are discussing, sets new rules and creates a new framework for the creation of new businesses. So two questions are being raised: First, does change the rules need to be changed? Do we need to create a new framework or what is good? The second question mark is whether the bill is in the right direction. The first question was answered by the previous governments, the current opposition, when it accused - if you remember - the beginning of the Greek crisis and said that we are producing nothing in Greece, that we are counterproductive and importing everything. This means that no investments were made in the direction of production, in the productive sector. So we needed a new framework to stimulate the production sector. Is the bill in the right direction? We heard the institutions yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, and indeed, as one colleague said earlier, there were two points of view. Besides, the bodies were divided into two categories: one category was the bodies, which were directly or indirectly involved in the public sector, namely civil servants - those directly involved in the public sector - or who had a kind of dependence on the public sector and on the other was the business world. We have heard two different points of view. On the one hand, those who were directly or indirectly involved with the public sector stood up to this bill, because they are not affected by their interests, as the previous colleague said, but are affected by their privileges. Because it's a matter of privileges. Because everyone is directly or indirectly affected. I am telling you that as a engineer I have been directly involved with the public sector and I have been 'jointed' or, if you like, I have suffered what the public sector means, what bureaucracy means, what this diversity means with pluralism and everything else. So standing against the bill means that it is probably in the right direction because it removes them privileges. On the other hand, the commercial, business world - putting the BSE representative on the top of the pyramid - stood positively against the bill and were clear. The bill is in the right direction, it simplifies, it sets out the rules, the simple rules that entrepreneurs needed, so that they could make new investments, in any case - as a country - to stimulate entrepreneurship. That's what's missing. That is what we are trying, in order to change this whole situation, to create new jobs, to start GDP taking the rise, to go upwards. I did not want to go back to the past, but because I listened to a colleague yesterday who said that in 2014 the situation and so on, when we discussed yesterday's bill here in plenary, I wanted to mention to him some of the elements of ELSTAT. I read you from ELSTAT's data: 'It appears that in 2014' - I am self-conceiving you, ladies and gentlemen - 'it was the worst year of the decade, as the 'rules' reached a value of 1.8 billion euros. It is worth noting that the average of the assured liabilities for the period 2004-2014 - this period covers ELSTAT’s statistics - ‘it was EUR 470 million. The worst year was in 2014 and as far as the number of workers left to claim after bankruptcy is concerned.” And I continue: "The passive one of the 350 million euros in 2012 reached 699 million -700 million - in 2013 and..." - hang on! - "...in 2014..." - which they consider to be a good year - "...from 700 million in 2013 we go to 1.8 billion euros". Ladies and gentlemen, this was the good year of 2014! And as far as business is concerned - how many people are closing, how many are opening - I will read to you here by the Chamber of Commerce some figures: in 2010 the business balance, namely how many have been opened and how many have been closed, is negative, that is, the ones that have closed are more than those that have been opened. It is less than a thousand eight hundred fifteen, i.e. more than a thousand eight hundred fifteen of those opened. In 2011, this number becomes less than a thousand three hundred seventy-five. In 2012, the same, minus a thousand three hundred seventy-five. In 2013 there were too many businesses, there were few ones left open, we go to the minus a thousand eight hundred two. And in 2014 we go to the minus a thousand hundred forty. Therefore, it is good not to invoke false evidence that supposedly 2014 was a year in which the economy went to get started. Now let's say a few words about this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces the new institutional framework for the establishment and pursuit of economic activities. In other words, the licensing system is being restructured to stimulate the economic and business activity of investments and competitiveness. This effort is necessary, as so far in the system there has been no strategy, objectives, instruments and, in general, any attempts made, whether they have remained in the middle or have not started at all and have remained as thoughts or proposals. The philosophy of the existing licensing method was based on prior authorisation, without the system taking into account the need for growth or jobs. It did not calculate the potential risks, put bureaucratic procedures, often repeated and often meaningless. This has resulted in an uninvesting climate. The state from a single to the investor, which it should have been, was transformed into an obstacle to any attempt to invest. The consultative role of the State was not present. On the contrary, complex procedures, pluralism and corruption, in which most of the times Greek investors were victims to foreign investors, this phenomenon - a pathetic phenomenon - acted disastrously. The result was a lot of foreign investment taking place at the initial stage, i.e. in the licensing phase. The supervisory mechanisms, the intervention of which would be crucial and deterrent to such phenomena, were hypotonic to non-existent. The political authority is indifferent. The absence of investment and the lack of investment in areas where our country objectively has a comparative advantage, such as agricultural products, processing, processing, marketing and placing on the market is also a result of this indifference. So not only did we have no opening up of new businesses, but those who had stayed alive were closed down. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] The main aim, therefore, of this draft law is to substantially simplify or modernise the framework for economic activity, with a view to creating a friendly environment, attracting foreign investors and reindustrialising the country. Great emphasis is placed on the medium and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is the backbone of the Greek economy, which has been severely affected in recent years. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we also see the need for regulation that is no other than trying to establish a climate of trust between the private and public sectors, with the right use of resources and to minimise the risk of external intervention, as was the case until now. To this end, the following measures shall be taken immediately: Firstly, the abolition of the licensing requirements, which are borne by high administrative costs private and public. Secondly, the introduction of key tools to the simplification process and its acceleration, which are lacking in existing legislation. Thirdly, the modernisation of computer systems, with the aim of reducing administrative costs and the synchronisation of public services, which are responsible for monitoring. Fourthly, the creation of a simple, clear, stable and flexible regulatory environment, which will quickly incorporate any improvements and changes in the international environment. Two are the main pillars of the legislative framework: an assessment of the risks that may arise from a specific activity at the level of public interest, such as public health or the environment, and the introduction of a modern tool simplifying the known procedures of disclosure. The aim is to simplify the formalities for carrying out the activities to assess the risks mentioned above, using scientific evidence of experience from the international area, where necessary. This reform project starts with priority in three areas of country development, the food and beverage industry, health stores and tourism, while by the end of 2018 it will include all the authorisation of economic activities. This reform strategy was decided upon following an investigation which was divided into different stages. In the first phase the licences were collected and recorded in the sectors selected and analysed in depth, administrative departments, documents, licences, etc. In the second phase, a comparison was made with the best practices of the European Union. More specifically, the examination of licences has taken into account the following legality, necessity, business friendlyness, which is most important because if the licence meets the first two, then it should be considered whether it can be simplified even further. The existing system has been assessed and a comparison has been made with what is valid in the European Union. The findings have been evaluated and used to simplify procedures. EU law and European practices have been taken into account. For economic activities already regulated by European regulations it was considered that the risk assessment has been carried out and that the regulation and measures imposed by the European Union are sufficient. Where European experience does not help us, graduation and risk assessment were carried out in accordance with the following system of parameters. Health risks for consumers of products manufactured in establishments, risks to the health of workers, consumers and neighbors. Natural and cultural environmental risks in so far as they are not covered by other legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. The risk-based activities were divided into three categories: low risk, excluded from ex ante regulatory projects, medium risk subject to a simple notification at high risk, subject to prior authorisation. The last step is to find a framework covering both the case of notification and the case of approval. In addition to the type of tool chosen for each activity, an appropriate treatment for each hazard category shall be ensured on the basis of the lowest possible burden. It was considered necessary, firstly, to provide a clear framework which, by simply notifying an activity, would require a formal submission of information and, secondly, simplifying other types of authorisations. Finally, the training of staff and the introduction of a new information system will make a major contribution to the achievement of the objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, the confusion of roles between public administration and the private sector in the economy has resulted in malfunctions and delays in the licensing process, corruption phenomena, doubts and doubts in the application of law. The clear failure of the previous governments to exploit the development toolbox and the wrong policy led thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises to the paddock. This bill, like what we discussed yesterday, responds to the current challenges posed by the European and wider global environment. It reshapes our country's image inside and out. The Independent Greeks support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the Centroon Union, Mr Katsiantonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in these tragic conditions for the country, within the recession and social and economic turbulence, there is something oxidous. All these years, parties, which were supposed to be in favour of the market and of entrepreneurship, such as the New Democracy, maintained a persistent and time-consuming licensing system for companies that needed special permission. Now the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is ideologically opposed to capital and entrepreneurs, is forced to bring in measures facilitating the establishment and licensing of companies and shops. The government is forced by the European Union to go the right way. The assessment of our country's short-term lending must be completed. And the current bill is necessary. If, ladies and gentlemen of the government, they did not force it upon you, the situation in the process of setting up companies would be worse and slower, not better and faster. So there is a timeless reluctance to help someone easily and quickly make a business. And that is indicative of the people who see us as no longer the ideological differences in the distant past. Only one ideological direction is there in the parties that have ruled over all these years, the client-statement and drowning of the private trader, the private businessman. And people's Left and People's Right meet in the same ideological sign. They are considering how to tax the real economy to save money for the growth of the state, namely, for ruffles, appointments and opaque procedures. We, therefore, entered the House to bring something different, love for productive social classes, to those who work and offer to society. The current bill mentions processing and related food and beverage activities for sanitary shops as well as the operation of tourist accommodation. The authorisation procedure in force, which was also prerequisite for the commencement of the activity, is right. Notification is now required. In fact, Article 14 provides for the creation of an information system to assist with the relevant processes. The assistance of technology is very clearly and is essential in this new project. The more human being is cut off from this process, the less the possibility of corruption and violation of the law. This is a common place in several Western countries. The positive for the market that seems unbelievable is that the operation of an activity is now taking place as soon as it is notified. The businessman, in other words, will tell the Greek state that he wants to open a restaurant. He does the necessary accounting and legal actions and then, according to the risk assessment of each occasion, he will undergo the on-the-spot check, not before, but after the start of his work. Checking in advance the businessman in these cases is like saying he is guilty until he proves otherwise. The presumption of innocence does not exist for the Greek State. The private businessman is a criminal by definition and has to prove his innocence. The monitoring will now take place retrospectively, based on risk criteria and the specific characteristics of each industry. In addition, the checks will be sampled on the basis of a risk assessment of economic activity. The specificities of each sector and the criticalness of control in the first or second indent will be taken into account. Subsequent supervision is envisaged on the basis of on-the-spot autopsy, recommendation and provision of compliance guidelines. We do not disagree that these checks should be carried out. Checks like the notification procedure are necessary for the reasons you described and Article 5, but it was totally absurd to constitute an obstacle that would delay the start of the activity. But we here see a 'blue-blue-blue-blue'. In Article 7, for certain activities and under certain circumstances the Minister for Economy will be able to put in the standard approval procedure any current or future activity he wishes. I'm asking you. Do you vote for a law or do you not vote for it? What's that little window for? We're very afraid that the old approval regime will return from the back door. The Greek state has become accustomed to such unacceptable practices. The criteria listed in this Article, so that you can incorporate an activity into the old authorisation regime, are generally enough to be able to do so at any time and for any activity. In circumstances where a company needs to proceed with the process, we will still have a sixty-day deadline, we will still have long and opaque procedures. The Greek state has to have a say, have authority and credibility. It is not allowed to legislate and in an article to say that the Minister at will can abolish all the legislation at any time. Therefore, unnecessary action is now being taken and the time for launching becomes much shorter. There were cases where municipalities, for example, took months to carry out the necessary checks on a tavern or a tyropitad. Thus each operator paid rents, taxes and other expenses up to the control. You had created a system by which even the last state kept each entrepreneur in his hand and specifications were made for rapidity, hatred and other well-known neo-Greek habits. Look where we've become. There are several mayors who wish to maintain the previous opaque and unclear licensing regime, because the smooth coexistence of entrepreneurs and residents will be disturbed. These are empirically wild stories. If some in local government have learned to operate underground and blackmail people, they now have to understand that this is a past. It's a past, because it's just, gentlemen of the government, you've been forced out. I will urge the parties and their voters, if it comes to your understanding that a mayor is opposed to the current bill, not to have your confidence in the next election. To say it more popular, if you see a mayor standing in the way of today's legislation, denounce him and black him in the next election. They do not fit half of the accounts in this regard. Either we become a modern European country or we will continue to live in a regime of opacity, hatred and rhetoric. These basic things should have been done a long time ago. In other countries, in fact, they have been in place for decades, as these have been self-evident principles. We know that this criminal behaviour in the private sector keeps from the previous governments, but you, Mr SYRIZA - ANEL, do not prove to be much better. Nevertheless, we are seeing other delays, as the majority of economic activities will gradually join this new licensing regime by 2018. The oxymotor is that some of you expect growth rates for 2017. The Centro Association consistently supports the harmonisation of our country with European standards. It's incomprehensible in the era of technology and information, waiting months to get an investor's stamp. It is incomprehensible to expect investment in words and to prosecute investments with our actions and our omissions. It is time for all of us to throw black stone behind us, leave old-fashioned mentalities behind and see before a society that works, produces and rewards, in a state that will provide social benefits from production rather than loans. We support the bill in principle. The whole of the articles will be supported. We will see for the rest of the articles we will discuss with our parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u37	Minister, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u38	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Balomemakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. Good evening. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the details, there is also the visibility of the future of this legislation. It should also concern us, not in the form of prophecy, of course, but in the form of a realistic approach to certain possibilities. A few comments were made yesterday in committee, which I believe were well-off and which concerned the possibility of responding to specific deadlines set by the draft law, such as the deadline laid down in Article 16, which set a time limit of two years for the conformity of a service, to which the Archaeological Service, as we recall, reacted. There were some objections that had to do with the weakening of the receipt services, in relation to the inspection services, I mean numbers. I would therefore like to note that all these estimates - they can be said to be misguided - are based solely on the assessment of the current potential of the public administration. I think we will find it very difficult to disagree that the current state of public administration is not the best, despite the steps that are necessarily taken, despite the sometimes heroic efforts of some of its officials. Colleagues, the question is: 'If the administrative machine today is capable of burdening the burden of much more in number and in depth of complex controls', I think that it is not rhetoric, because one realizes that it will not only be sufficient for the Rusk analysis method - which we have heard here quite rightly, that it will be applied on its own - without requiring a well-established, coordinated and at any time ready to carry out supervisory supervision, i.e. public administration work. If we want to be honest - and at least we wish to be honest - and not to glean ears - the course of this government has shown that it does not want to be nice and well-meaning of the difficulties of the situation - we must respond that the transfer of considerable weight to the control area, as we have heard it say, ex post, that is to say, ex post, which introduce these two identical legislations in the last two days - the current and the legislation to simplify the procedures for setting up undertakings, that is to say - requires a different way of operating public administration. The new arrangements will ultimately be used and incorporated into the daily life of the Greek citizen, in the context of and thanks to the creation of this new model of public administration. The government has committed itself to an in-depth reform of public administration. It has already provided examples of writing with the strategic law on objective and non-party criteria and party parchmental expressions of government officials, but also with recent provisions that rationalize and make mobility processes more transparent and democratic. There are no illusions that the project for a new type of public administration will be easy or straightforward. As far as we can see, a significant number of subsequent legislative acts are already required. However, the draft law must be put forward in the future, not in the distant future, of course, but in order to use a expression of days, to say in the medium term, that is, when it will have begun to change the way of administration by using modern technological capabilities, by establishing interconnection, by completing digital operation, of course always in the context of decentralisation and decentralisation, which has recently been debated very well and science, from what we know, and more and more favourable to that. I am sure that a positive change in the way the administration is dealing with the governor will also bring about a change in the way the commander, the citizen, that is, all of us, will face his own obligations, make us more honest as taxpayers and as traders with the Greek State. In these contexts, ladies and gentlemen, we should also put these provisions into place, not to be limited, I would say to a sterile confrontation of what legislation is, if it were to be more effective or better, what has been or will not be implemented, in a usual practice of destruction, which, unfortunately, I do not see, is not going to disappear, but to understand all the political groups that it is one of the most important bets of today and we will all try together as far as possible to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to recognise to the Government that it has an interest in Parliament with changes. Yesterday we were talking urgently, today we are doing so urgently. I hope at least that the budget will be brought in by the normal procedure. However, I cannot accept, ladies and gentlemen, that you are slowly discovering that there is the private sector, and you are starting and legislating positive measures to facilitate business activity in Greece. Of course I have to admit that you are doing this with a little fear and that is why I see only six speakers from SYRIZA on the list. But perhaps you do it a little bit more and more necessary, because there must be the private sector, to pay taxes, to finance the recruitment we have denounced in the public sector. But this delay we all have to recognise that it was costing. The fact that the Greek economy returned to the recession in 2015, is marginally stable in 2016 and we already see growth forecasts falling for 2017 by international organisations, shows that the fact that we left the private sector, is something that the Greek people will pay with new, unbearable measures. It is clear what needs to be done in this country. All the recommendations from international organisations say so, the OECD says in its recent report that structural reforms are needed, the European Commission says that investment and improvements in the labour market need to strengthen growth. They all say so. But these reforms, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are being delayed and you do not believe them and you do not do so in the right way. When we say reforms, we do not mean that we change terminology, we abolish earlier provisions and, by miracle, we have moved the Greek economy forward. Let me remind you of real reforms of the previous government. We started by simplifying the licensing of large investments, with n.4146/2013, with revolutionary moves. We have created in the Ministry of Development the central licensing authority, which has the power to issue at one point all the licences required for the major strategic investments. This fact that co-legislative ministries transferred responsibilities to a Ministry for these major projects was, in common, a revolution of thought to the Greek public administration, instrumentally contributed to removing obstacles and counter-motors for large foreign investments. We have also created special tools, such as the presidential decrees of the ESKESE, to resolve the major issues that exist in the spatial imprint of large investments, a tool that is already being used in practice. I am pleased that this government continues, despite its negative criticism of the opposition, to use and implement this tool. I hope that the government - as I speak about this - will use the existing central licensing authority, because from what I understand the Greek office in the Ministry of Finance is completely subordinated and we will have at least one or two years' delay if you do not use this tool. Of course, the major reform took place with the law of Hatzidakis, with Law 4262/2014. I think, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, that you are due not only to an apology to Kostis Hatzidakis for the criticism you have made at the time, but also to an apology to Greek businesses that will be forced to wait until 2019 to see substantial improvements in the licensing process with today's bill, which is, however, in practice, missing from what was foreseen by No 4262/2014. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. In the present case no economic activity is carried out freely without having been subject to notification or approval and at the same time, at the same time, particularly important, the idea of standards and certification, which was then a real innovation in the way and procedures of control, is abandoned. Moreover, even positive points included in the bill, such as the Integrated Information System for Activity and Control are not ready and no one knows when it will be. Yesterday the bodies stressed the fact that the presidential decrees needed, the implementing decisions to be signed, are not ready. We all know that there will be a significant delay. If you fail to reopen the private sector, unfortunately, the Greek economy will remain in a recession for many years. A majority colleague spoke yesterday about development law, but we cannot recognise that we have had two lost years. In 2015, where there was no new application in the development law and in 2016 that we slowly legislated and legislated with a budget, Mr Deputy Minister, much less than required in this state of the Greek economy. Two years lost. In particular, as compared to the efforts of the period 2012-2014, the results were not slow to show. There was a real recovery in investment interest and from our country, from Greek companies that created the application record in 2014 to development law, as well as the large investment that came to our country. In particular, the study of the JEP in May 2014 mentions with a name of five hundred and seventy-four investment projects totalling EUR 37,6 billion, projects which many of them are now beginning to implement, such as the TAP, such as the Greek one. But there was an absolute apnea for new projects and I have asked, ladies and gentlemen, many times in this Chamber what the works of 2017, 2018, 2019, will be done by you in 2015 and 2016 and the answer is none. That is why, unfortunately, Greece is already discussing the fourth memorandum, rather than discussing solutions such as the ones proposed by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, to support healthy entrepreneurship, with a gradual reduction in tax rates, starting with the ENPI and the profits of businesses, with bold adoption of reforms in the state and the economy, so that the public can not stand in the way of business, make it easier for investment in practice and so that we can make use of our comparative advantages and, finally, strengthen the liquidity in the economy, so that this rocky one can leave free professionals and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, facilitating economic activity is a key component in attracting investment and infrequent development. This is not the case, however, when the government of the country brings law late in the House, just to put a check on the list of reforms that should be presented to the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. We move on to the next speaker, Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u44	Mr. President, when will the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u45	As soon as the legislation comes in, when it is completed, it will be announced, in other words after a while. I suppose after two - three speakers. Here you go, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. To speak, ladies and gentlemen, particularly on the part of the government to remove obstacles, combat bureaucracy and facilitate the exercise of business activity, it is like plunging open doors and often the government is doing so now that it has landed in reality. But in this period of time, until the government lands, you know very well that we have paid for it by losing more than 20 billion in GDP over the past two years. The fight to win this lost ground is too big and too difficult. I don't know what measures our lenders will require again. It is an open issue that we will see in the next few days. As far as the provisions of the bill themselves are concerned, to the extent that they come to continue with this effort that we started, we will not disagree. Our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, was also mentioned, and his joint ministerial decisions, which enabled hundreds of businesses to act with a simple notification to the region. We have, of course, expressed our objection to the extent to which all the information systems are being completed, the adoption of decisions will run so that we do not get to see each other again at point zero. The government has made commitments. I wish the Minister would be and implement them. But we're afraid it won't be. However, the proposals made by the Chambers to use GEMH, we have noted and supported them. We have also supported the demand for self-government to replace the funds lost. I have seen that there is an amendment to the SYRIZA Members. We should be told by the Minister if he will be able to accept it. We have also expressed our opposition to the removal of responsibility from municipal community councils to decide on sanitary shops, especially those that cause nuisance, namely music. This - beware - is making this a fact, which in her DNA has had the issues of popular participation and the intervention procedure, on issues relating to the institution of self-government. This is obviously a mutation, one of the too many we have seen. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since these issues have been dealt with by our rapporteur, I do not want to go any further. I will catch the thread from where Mr Constantinople left it, when he referred to the provision in Article 56 of the bill we are discussing, which extends the exemption from criminal liability to the members of the board of directors of the EMMDDA and to its subsidiaries, which we voted to apply from 1-10-2010, as special conditions were in place with sub-financing due to the memorandum of these mechanisms. It was then decided by the Scientific Committee of Parliament that under these circumstances they do not have criminal responsibility for those who have exercised the administration. What we have heard here, in this Chamber, when the relevant provision was voted, is not said. What we have heard about conflict, corruption, interference in justice! There are a number of colleagues here who remember them. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I do not want to offend any of you personally. Because if I wanted to offend you, I would now read the list of SYRIZA colleagues who signed the roll-call vote on this article. They are your surnames. Others are in the European Parliament, others are in ministerial seats and others are here to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u47	And Annell's.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u48	Yeah, and Annell's. I'd like to know, aren't they embarrassed? Don't they bear? Aren't they going to take the courage at some point to ask for an apology and say "we blamed you"? Ladies and gentlemen, I want you all to remember that on 29 March this year Mr Tsipras caused an out-of-date discussion at the level of political leaders on interventions in justice. This is where the Step forward was put forward by a dozen and more decisions by Parliament, the majority, namely, legal decisions, with which, in his opinion, we had intervened in justice and facilitated strife and corruption. Mrs Gennimatas replied to him at that time: "Mr. Tsipras, since you were unable to smash the memorandum with a law and an article, she abolished these scandalous provisions." Not only do you not abolish them, but you are strengthening them. Do you remember what you were telling us about the triangular transactions we gave you some billions? Do you remember them? No, you just didn't remove them, but you extended them. This regulation is therefore a typical case of what Mr Tsipras denounced and you are coming here today to legalise it and extend it. Does Mr. Tsipras really know about this, or do you take advantage of the fact that he is absent in Cuba, to pass this provision? In any case one thing is politically important, ladies and gentlemen, it is politically important that, with what you are doing, you will lose the advantage you have had last time to report to the next, when they do the same. Because for many things you have committed the country and the next government will also be forced to do much of what you are doing, because, I repeat, you have committed the country for many years. A hundred is the superstition. Is the political conclusion - and this is what I want to finish with - that SYRIZA as a leader, as a parliamentary group, as a form when he told the truth to the people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u49	Formation? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u50	Then when he blamed us for strife and corruption, Mrs. Vaki? You have these written in the “AUTH” in the Black Bible. But the most important thing Mr. Tsipras said from here. Or are you licking where you spit? That's the big deal for you. Because in politics matters are solved through democracy and democracy, so it says that you are a majority and you decide, say at least one apology now. Say an apology to those who despised you and thanks to the lies you were telling the Greek people, it made you a majority. Unless you vote in this arrangement, you don't recognize yourself. Someone else seems to have brought her and someone else will vote for her. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Mr. Papaliou has the floor. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur of the New Democracy and colleagues of the same party and of the PASOK have argued in favour of the bill and voted for it in the committee responsible, then contradicting it in general. That is why many colleagues are not concerned with the bill, but are general political positions, which have nothing to do with it. Of course, they refer to a situation in which they are known to be responsible themselves, which the Greek people have lived and have been judged by themselves. You see, many times opposition attitude prevails from reason. This draft law introduces a new institutional framework for simplifying and rationalising the authorisation of economic activities with a view to improving the business environment and increasing competitiveness. The country needs more than ever to invest and the existing institutional framework does not include a specific strategy. The legislative initiatives so far have resulted in failure, because they have been inappropriate administrative tools and have led to stiff bureaucratic movements, which have not ensured the public interest in health, safety and the environment. Imported arrangements seek to remove or mitigate chronic problems, such as unnecessary and time-consuming procedures, to overlap the responsibilities of involved actors that favour bureaucracy, corruption and complexity. At the same time, modern management tools are being exploited and automated processes are being developed, allowing transparency and greater speed in the conduct of economic activities, while establishing a climate of confidence between public administration and private initiative. Moreover, these specific regulations aim to strengthen entrepreneurship, emphasising the medium and medium-sized enterprises, which is the backbone of the Greek economy. The main lines of the draft law are the assessment of the risk, which can result from business activities in aspects of public interest, such as public health, safety and the environment. The examination of the licensing framework shall be based on three levels of risk. The risk to consumer health of products manufactured in a particular establishment, the risk to the health and safety of workers and residents within or near the establishment and the risk to the natural and cultural environment. Each activity shall be classified according to these levels of risk. The classification categorizes the activities at three levels. Low-risk activities exempted from the need for ex ante regulatory tool, medium-risk activities that are usually subject to simple disclosure, and high-risk activities that require prior approval. A notification shall be provided for the compulsory procedure whereby the person concerned informs the competent authority in advance of the commencement of the economic activity which he intends to carry out in a certain area or establishment without having to carry out an ex ante check. Includes only the minimum critical data required by the administration, such as name, address of the place of business, the type of economic activity to be carried out. Only where appropriate and strictly necessary, the notification may include additional information, such as information on the installation and the production processes followed, in order to facilitate the administrative mechanism in supervision and control. Following the submission of the notification, the person concerned may immediately commence the exercise of an economic activity. The notification shall be submitted electronically to the integrated information system for the conduct of activities and checks, and the notification shall be submitted to the competent authority by the beginning of the operation. It is noted that the omission of the notification is punishable under this provision by sanction. The purpose of the introduction of the notion of notification is to largely replace existing licensing procedures, in particular in cases where the level of risk is low intensity and extent. This substantially simplifys the start of economic activity. The immediate next central concept of the draft law after notification is the approval, which is a precondition for the start of an economic activity in a certain area, which may include ex ante control. It shall not constitute an authorisation within the meaning of this Legislation, the act, the authorisation, the condition and the procedure necessary for the access to and the pursuit of a profession by a natural person. The new licensing standard is based on checks which are now carried out after the start of operations and during their actual operation. The checks are designed to ensure the public interest and not to standardise the completeness of the supporting documents and the ineffective on-the-spot automation of the undertakings prior to their operation. In this way, the start-up time of economic activities will be considerably shortened and the audit procedures will be shifted at the stage after the operation begins. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek licensing system lacked an integrated strategic approach, as it was primarily based on prior authorisation with negative consequences for economic growth, competition, job creation and also, in general, on the effectiveness of the system itself. In the past, simplification efforts have been made either because of their fragmentation or because of the large number of inappropriate forecasts containing high administrative costs for businesses and public services. It is therefore clear that the implementation of institutional changes, the training of staff in them and the introduction of a new information system create a stable environment for Greek businesses, strengthen healthy competition and constitute an essential element for their further functioning. In conclusion, this draft law is added to it for the simplification of licensing procedures and is part of a broader institutional framework for strengthening entrepreneurship. This institutional framework must be linked - it is already being done by the Greek Government - to the reorganisation of public administration. It is understandable that it will be judged in its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Mr. Bassiakos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, following the forced expedition of his debate as an emergency, the draft law with the barbaric title is currently being discussed: 'The new institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity', which you say you are seeking to rationalise and reform the licensing system for enterprises. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Bakoyannis, spoke in detail about the problems created by the implementation of this bill that will become law and compared these provisions with the provisions of the existing Law 4262 of the Hatzidakis Act, which was a very positive law, a law - cut, I would say, which was passed in May 2014 and provided for the simplification of the authorisation of enterprises, a simple licensing system with a declaration of self-conformity, respecting standards and specifications per activity and carrying out audits in the operation of certified bodies. A central management or licensing system in many cases could be completed electronically and on the same day. Two ministerial decisions to simplify licensing to one hundred three activities and eight hundred ninety-seven professions were adopted in the intervening period. Since then, unfortunately, the current government has been running this whole thing around two years, and has not made any substantial decisions on this matter. The essential difference between Law 4262 and the Hatzidakis Act, in the current bill, is the different conception of the principle that Law 4262 accepted the full freedom to carry out economic activities, enabling the State to limit the activity through specific procedures and thereby ensure the public interest, while in this bill no economic activity can be carried out free of charge without having been subject to notification or approval. So reform of your bill is only about when the businessman suffers the suffering of bureaucracy, before or after the opening of his business. No standardization, no red tape. If you ask an entrepreneur, who is his greatest concern for starting to attempt in Greece, you will be answered: "The bureaucracy, the dashing legislation, the infinite ministerial decisions, the laws that change momentarily, the taxation and insurance procedures". Moreover, overtaxation, the increase in insurance contributions and energy costs and, of course, the lack of liquidity and the bad economic climate lead with certainty to tens of thousands of businesses. Instead of committing to complying with the standardised procedures currently in force, instead of issuing drivers for each activity, guides to record the necessary documents by specifying precisely what is needed and when for every activity, you tell the citizen: "Find and have exclusive responsibility" and you will be owed by the citizen and for that. In an event entitled "The Steps of Business" in September 2016, Mr. Stathakis, the Minister responsible at the time, said that an operation is simply authorized to inform the public and beyond. The company, of course, follows all the legal procedures it has to follow. That doesn't change at all. I'm asking. With the draft legislation under discussion, what does it change to simplify procedures? That's the problem, that doesn't change anything. At the same event, Secretary-General Zafiris said that we consider the businessman responsible and not controlled, that it is not checked in advance, that the documents are very simplified, that there is a special section in which all the simplified procedures are in place, and that an electronic platform is made for all the documents that are required. Read, however, Article 4 of the bill. There it says that everything remains both legislation and procedures and obliges the businessman to find them on his own. After all, if you had included provisions simplifying procedures, you could have put the title of your draft law in the same way'simplification of procedures', which I do not think you would have omitted. So I ask. Where's the simplification? Where is this famous electronic platform, which includes prerequisites and prerequisites? What's her e-mail address? Even this integrated information system provided for in Article 14 will operate in two years. You didn't even plan it to start it. You are, of course, asking for a paradox under Article 11, Article 18, Article 35 of the bill. I'm sorry, but that's not all serious. It is not a serious response to the situation that the country is experiencing. In November 2015, one year after the vote on n.4262, which was a legal cut as I said to you and as the rapporteur of the New Democracy has already described in detail, Ms. Bakoyannis, then the State Secretary at the time admits that this law has been left on paper only. In March 2016, it presented to the Governing Council of Economic Policy the adoption of the necessary secondary legislation in respect of June 2016. On July 4, 2016, in my question to the House on the subject, Ms.Jakris and the responsible Secretary-General of Industry answered me that the project management team is responsible for planning and promoting the necessary actions to implement the Hatzidakis Act to make this law more operational in its implementation, without altering its basic philosophy. While all this is said, what is happening and the Hatzidakis law changes? Let's get back to us. This law laid down the specific steps to codify and standardise procedures. That would provide security to the businessman. The three ministerial decisions have been adopted since 2013. Is it a coincidence that all three bear the signature of Mr. Mitsotakis? Since then, however, nothing has happened. You have voted against him then, you are revoking him and now, but without giving us an explanation why. On August 14, 2015, the same day that the SYRIZA ANLL was passed, an act of the Ministerial Council was adopted - the number 21 - to set up a working group consisting of fifteen Secretary-General of various ministries, to carry out the work to simplify the authorisation for economic activity, as I told you before. Almost a year and a half later, though, you don't say anything. It's not the law, it's not good, and you're abrogating it. You are proposing a law that you say will become operational in two years, that is, we have lost a total of four years, and that is very important time, for an economy that faces the very serious problems that we are experiencing today. So you do not care about the free economy with rules and transparency. You don't trust the businessman, you don't make it easier and you're firing out investment. Like, for example, investment in real estate, where a recent study showed that Athens is in the last place, that is, the 20th place in a total of thirty cities. That is why we must speed up political change with your departure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Bassiko. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Haritsis, for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me put forward some legislative improvements to the draft law, after the debate before us in the last few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, with the two bills of the Ministry of Economy and Development which are being discussed and voted on these days in the Greek Parliament, on the one hand, the reform of the loan system for enterprises and, on the other, the simplification of the procedures for setting up new businesses, we are moving towards a very important reform section, which for us for the Ministry of Economy, is very important. It is very important, because the main concern of our Ministry and the Government as a whole is to shape the economic environment in that country, which will favour the creation and development of dynamic enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, to strengthen the employment paid in the years of the crisis and to turn production into a model of fair and sustainable development. To achieve this, we are intervening on two very basic axes. On the one hand, we ensure modern financial instruments, to cover the financial gap of Greek businesses and, on the other, to intervene in the institutional field, so as to simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy. These interventions are currently being discussed in Parliament. These two bills are a unity, a single intervention. A new draft law will soon be tabled in the same direction, which will deal with market surveillance procedures and the specialisation of control procedures. All of these interventions - and this is very important to us, and if you want to do so - are part of the same uniform design and serve the same objectives. But let me refer very briefly to the interventions relating to the first axis, that is, the axis related to financial instruments, and say that here too, intervention is being made specifically in the area of entrepreneurship, both through the new NRP 2014-2020 and the new development law. Here you will allow me to say, because it has been said by one of the previous speakers, that the new development law, as you know very well, has come to heal many of the sins of the past, with many investment projects that had entered into the previous two development laws of 2004 and 2011, but without the necessary funding being guaranteed. So, on the one hand, this whole gap had to be covered and, of course, also to strengthen new investment projects. By the way, in these days that have opened up the first four regimes of the new development law, we already have more than a thousand manifestations of interest for this new law, indicative of the change in the economic climate in our country. So both with the ESRB and with the new development law and with the new economic tools that we are currently promoting, we put those priorities, which will support dynamic and innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, take advantage of and activate the basic competitive advantage that the Greek economy, in our view, has, as we see it, is the human potential and especially the young trained people, and will strengthen investment in the fields of research, innovation and technology. Within the days to speak and specifically about these initiatives, an agreement is signed with the European Investment Fund, EIF, on a new innovative equity fund platform, a fund of funds, from which Greek small and medium-sized enterprises can raise funds in the form of participation in their equity, more modern and efficient than classical subsidies, which have prevailed in the past. Together with two other important tools, which are also activated by the end of the year, which is the Entrepreneurship Fund 2 and the 'Security', they will invade the real economy a billion euros from public funds, plus another billion euros from private individuals' participation, i.e. the leverage of these resources. As I said, however, the ecosystem that we are trying to create means two things. On the one hand, the reversal of the climate of deinvestment which has prevailed in the Greek economy especially in recent years in the crisis and, on the other, a serious and planned rationalisation of the institutional framework for the establishment and licensing of businesses, while at the same time ensuring the substance and not the types, as has been the case many times, the public interest. I think most of them agree that business licensing procedures are still in Greece, and today they are time-consuming and costly and ineffective, that is to say, not ensuring the public interest. This bill that we are debating today, unlike previous legislative simplifications for the first time, introduces modern tools, in line with internationally established standards and responds to real problems. The spirit of the new bill is very clear. We move from a heavy and bureaucratic licensing procedure in advance, ex ante, to a simple notification procedure for the commencement of an economic activity, without unnecessary overlap between operators and services and a system of substantial ex post controls, ex post, during the actual operation of the business. On the one hand, the start of economic activity is considerably simplified and, on the other hand, the public interest is guaranteed by this new law, as the whole is substantially strengthened and protected by strengthening control procedures. Instead of formal checks of supporting and on-the-spot autopsies before the start of operation of an undertaking, i.e. before the normal operating conditions of the undertaking become established, we are stepping up controls at the stage of operation so that we know, in fact, the conditions of real activity. In addition, public administration workers who have until now been responsible for the task, which has often been very costly but also very boring, of the formal control of the mass of supporting documents, are released from these typical activities and can further strengthen the control mechanisms provided for in the next period. The checks are now systemed according to uniform criteria, of course taking into account the specificities of each activity. Consistent entrepreneurs have to take advantage of these simple and objective automatic procedures, while offenders will be identified and dealt with with the strict sanctions of the law. As I spoke about sanctions, you will allow me to say - and this is a point which should be clarified - that simplification relates to licensing procedures. The bill neither substitutes nor circumvents the current tax, labour, environmental and archaeological legislation. In this draft law, the activities are classified into three categories in relation to the conditions for their start-up. The free exercise, notification and prior approval. We are therefore introducing the modern tool of notification, in line with international standards, in which the operator informs the administration of the start-up of the business and - because this has been said, in order to avoid confusion - it is not the same as the procedure of notification provided for in Law 4262, which was, in fact, an ex ante authorisation with the presentation of supporting documents and a withdrawal of an administrative act. The supporting documents are no longer presented. The company keeps them in its file and is available to the audit authorities when they proceed to carry out the audit. The classification of the activities at the three levels of risk, low risk for the free conduct of the activity, medium risk for the notification and high risk for the ex ante approval, is now made on clear scientific criteria, moving on three axes. Firstly, with regard to the risk to consumer health, secondly, with regard to the risk to the health and safety of workers and residents and thirdly, with regard to the risk to the natural and cultural environment, in so far as this is not covered by other existing legislation. Furthermore, an integrated strategy for the whole licensing chain is introduced for the first time. At this stage, the relevant procedures are simplified, their objective and technical nature is determined, and the risk of external intervention is minimised. This will make a decisive contribution to the creation of the new integrated information system. I'll say a few words below and that's why. In relation to previous attempts - and I do not want to work evenly in relation to these efforts - it cannot in any case be said that this bill is a step backwards in relation to Law 4262. Law 4262, which attempted, attempted, simplified the licensing procedures of undertakings, was a non-functional law and I will mention a characteristic example, the first CSM, which was issued to implement this law, in which the unclear new term of the general operating conditions was not even used, but was essentially the concept of operating licence with all supporting documents. The implementation of the law also provided for the integration of a hundred and three activities of total nature, without taking into account particular criteria for the integration of these activities. So we had activities that covered a very wide range of, very heirs among themselves, joining the same logic through the CYA. So today's law wants and will have a potential, in that it is not a law, which we are voting on once and then we leave it to his fate, nor is it a general framework law. It already looks at the application of the provisions of this law to three sectors, which are of great importance for the country's GDP: they are the food and beverage industries, health stores and tourist accommodation. This capacity of the law, which I mentioned before, is related to the fact that gradually - that is also a response to criticism that has been made and is completely unfounded - will allow me to say, in relation to when the law will be enacted - new activities will also be integrated. The process of mining activities has already begun, and one of the rapporteurs for counter-population has already been said. It will therefore be clear that the licensing framework for all these activities and the logistics of the transit centres by March 2017. So gradually, by the end of 2018, we aspire, through this law, to incorporate all productive economic activities. The main provision of the law is the OPS, the Integrated Information System, for the exercise of activities and controls, which will be subject to the General Secretariat for Industry. Here, we told the committee yesterday, to repeat this in relation to the timetable, which is rightly raised by the representatives of the opposition, we are very clear from the outset: the OPC is following the process of implementing the law. In the next six months, therefore, the applications, related to notification and approval for the first three activities, which are part of the law and then, as a result of the implementation of a system with activities, will include the applications, which will also relate to subsequent activities, which will be incorporated into the law. We believe that the introduction of this information system will decisively reduce the administrative burden, will make control very effective, as the system will also create an integrated register with information for each company, and its interoperability, i.e. its ability to communicate with other very important public administration information systems such as GEMH and 'TAXIS', will enable better coordination, better communication among all players in public administration. I would also like to respond to this in relation to a consideration put forward for the OPC - a transitional stage is explicitly foreseen in the law, so that implementation of the law is progressed very quickly and in a transitional phase, therefore, by depositing the notification to the competent authority provided for in the ministerial decisions, which will be signed in the next fortnight. To sum up, the bill attempts a comprehensive intervention with clearer steps to implement the reform. I have already referred to how the timetables for the inclusion of new activities in this law will go ahead. Along with the law that we voted on yesterday on the simplification of business creation and the bill that comes the next time, in relation to market surveillance, a new integrated institutional framework is absolutely necessary, so that Greek, small and medium-sized enterprises can be founded and developed, but we can also attract serious foreign investment. In conjunction with the other pillar of the interventions, which I mentioned on financial instruments, we set the prerequisites for improving the macroeconomic policies of the Greek economy to have an impact on the real economy and boosting employment. It is very important for us, of course, not only to vote on the law, which is the first if you want a step, but also the law and its function and whether it will really be able to fulfil and what is envisaged in it will be tested in the field of application, especially when we talk about a law, which has this capacity, to which I have referred before. And so that the law can have the best possible results - which we all want - in order to help all the actors involved, civil society and self-government. I would also like to say a word about this because the Otta was also raised. And with the legislative improvements that we are tabling, it is clear that, for the OTAs, there is not just a reduction in revenue, but an increase in revenue through forecasts, which are there for the performance of part of the infringements in OTAs, and of course the responsibilities which they have had up to now, through a simplification and a change in licensing, remain with the bodies of local government. There are, of course, other issues openly. We are here to look at them and discuss them and then, in the application of the law. Thank you for the three-day debate, which enabled us to incorporate many of the comments in the final text of the bill. I am sure that the next time, when this is being implemented, we will have the opportunity to move forward with new improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u59	Minister, will you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u60	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after participating in the educational program "KappostyRIA" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Grade of Painter. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the inability of the government to deal with the big issues of the country and the present, as I will have the opportunity to say shortly... [[Noise from the ministerial benches]] Mr President, I do not continue. I'm addressing the Minister, but the Minister doesn't listen to the speakers, he does other things. If you want to collaborate, work outside the hall. I'm addressing the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u63	We were talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u64	I don't care what you say, Mr. Comrade. I address this House and the government. Something is supposed to come out of the parliamentary procedure. You're supposed to. I started my speech, saying something more generally. It's not about the Minister and he might be wrong because he's a young man and I wish he could succeed. But, after two years' experience, one can say, without being stated, that incompetence and lack of skills and line and design on the part of the government has complicated the country, has caused problems within and outside its citizens, as naturally it is - and as we have learned in recent days - and unfortunately, abroad. It is such inability that we can now speak openly about the damage that the country suffers both internally and externally. And yesterday's statements of Erdogan, as well as Rama, would anyone say in tune? - it is the event of those that our neighbours, with these traits for decades, want to say against Greece, but they never dared to say it publicly. Now they are put together publicly and almost every day. They find and do, ladies and gentlemen, with a leadership that brought Greece out of every European and international relation. Greece is alone. Apart from the alliances in which it is integrated into associations, supranational and other, Greece is not in any special connection. And a country which is not part of European or international relations, it is doomed to have too many problems abroad. You isolated the country, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and every day you discredit it. We are talking as a Democratic Incorporation, which we had since the beginning of 2012, highlights the principle of national understanding, and which, after you refused it many times, since your people gave you the power of Officerial Response and then, although you discredited us, even though you did what you did and as a government, we did not abandon the principle of national understanding. On both foreign and defence issues, our behaviour in our communications, the National Council for Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, even when the reason was taken by the Minister for Defence, who is his main political motto, is the defamation and conclusion of our own political area. But you are not entitled to any other policy of understanding in our national and external matters. You're not entitled! Because this attitude seems to make you think that you are making it easier not to exist, that you are making it easier to play with the interests of the country, that you are making it easier to do what you do in the field of foreign policy, and that others understand as much as society, the citizens, for some time - not anymore - have fallen into some kind of misery, because your many promises have made it to society. You are not worth the support, and you will not have it from here either on these issues, for which you have been awkward, inadequate and dangerous. In this context, in order to turn a little further into our internal affairs, you do not have what Mr Constantinople said, with the specific regulation of Rule 56, which cannot even remember in reasonable terms what you were saying when we said that those who manage critical issues do not have the immunitys that a Member or a Minister has. They put a signature, because that's how it's to be done in this slow-motored administrative machine. Do not trouble themselves and their families for decades. Colleagues, I remember the Prime Minister - and he said it as Prime Minister - saying: “What will happen to them? To go to criminal law, to go to courts like other citizens'. In other words, to end the matter of their personal dignity, to be dispersed and to end, by paying their head's hair, after a few years. Now, you are bringing a provision to extend these arrangements with the proposals you have made for roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u65	It's pulled out! Didn't you read the legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u66	You're pulling it out? It's a problem. Who put it? You're bringing it? It's a consistent problem. Forward cliff and back stream! A small trap, proving the total trap in which you have fallen, but also the total trap of the country by you. Before I go to economic matters and to the specific issues of the draft law, I would like to make a comment on the external issues, but it also relates to the relations between immigration and refugee and the internal issues of the country. May I remind you that you were calling the Amygdaleza 'Dahau detention centre', while in your hands we had the events in Moya and that we had a minister and a majority MEP saying that this could happen in any house? "Dachau" you said the detention centres and now you make them a norm, with facts within these centres that had never existed in the past. The penny's manslaughters! People and parties for many words, but for acts dangerous and problematic. Now let's go see the development issues. As regards the overall approach, the Prime Minister from this Step by calling for a vote of confidence in February 2015 did not say a word about growth. A word! I asked Mr Hatzinikolau after hearing his speech and said that he was the Prime Minister of the recession and they told me that he was exaggerating. I wasn't exaggerating at all. Maybe a politician, who has a little experience to understand what he's talking about. And we understood what the Prime Minister said and these predictions were verified by the end of the development process, which was beginning to carve in 2014 and which you admitted. You admitted it! In the 2014 financial report you admitted it, and then you said they were statistical alchemys. Well, first of all, that. You've reinstated the recession. You replaced the path of growth with a recession. I have seen a recession in the past and it seems, unfortunately, to be a recession and a future! Secondly, ever since you appeared to be elected, November - December 2014 and so far, you are creating a risk for the country of political instability. You succeeded in political instability, unconstitutionally throwing the government in 2014-2015 and then we had elections, you re-electioned in September and the referendum broke through. And the Prime Minister, who says until 2019, is the country on a regular basis and threatens elections in his speech to you, colleagues of the majority of SYRIZA, speaking - about possible elections. And the Minister for Finance is coming, please - not the Minister for a smaller issue, the Minister for Finance! - a few hours ago and it talks about a repetition of the risks of June 2015. That's where we are. What will the investor think - which you, in your small experience, too, will require political stability to invest - when he hears you say that, that the Minister of Finance reminds us in the few days before the capital controls? What's he gonna think? She will think that this country is going well, the Prime Minister is talking about elections, the main pillars of economic policy are talking about elections and we are going to invest. You are entitled to the first condition of the investment climate, which is political stability. As far as the Greek is concerned, Mr Constantinople said so yesterday. Seventy thousand integer, that is, full-time. He'd be in a bulldozer! Now we're going back. And how far back are we going? We do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Yesterday Mr Stakoras also mentioned, if I remember and tabled a specific statistical table - I call on him, I do not care what party he belongs to - for six thousand businesses that overthrow logic until this year. A little, ladies and gentlemen, more businesses have been opened up than those closed down. The closure has now exceeded six thousand cases the opening up of new businesses. One more small example. I am, for a year and something, in conversation with the Ministry of National Defence for the NSA, who, with so much effort, has kept our military industry upright. A few days ago they confiscated their money and brought the Ministry of Defense, which assured us that everything was going well and that apart from the work of the ministers, the defence ministers have also become managers, he brought an amendment to transfer the staff of the NSAs to the public sector, namely the confession that the operation is closing. More and more. I would like to have time to make a special reference to the development prospects of waste management. You, with the pearls of ecology, are in a much more unfavourable situation than things were before, for a real lung, if we look at it properly and quickly, the economy. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to change licensing legislation is being lost. You want to say "the chance to fill"? I'll take it. That's not what I'm interested in. A very big opportunity is missing. It would be right if the bill were true. The person who intends to do something here tells us his intention with the title and deceives us with the contents. It recognises the problem of bureaucracy in the meeting of the economy and state and local government, but instead of resolving it, it claims to solve it, and possibly make it difficult. Businesses, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and the young people who want to work do not have time to play with prosperousness. They are business units or future business units, which are currently burning, seeking to carry out an activity and are not licensed. And so far, you are also making this statement, but you do not care about the practical consequences of what you have brought us here today in order for the House to legislate. I'll go to articles 5 and 7 now. Minister, if you're kind, give me the timelines for implementation. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the Presidential Decree is signed by the relevant Minister and co-legislator - that is, there is no involvement in the arrangement of who is signing and who is planning - and then the Ministerial Decisions are, you understand - who knows how much time a decree takes, especially when the signatures are vague - that eight months, ten months, twelve months, and more than that is a reasonable time, which can be lost, after the Council of State is intervening and all the procedures known and then the ministerial decisions are. It ends in 2016, we enter 2017 and while the economy is on fire, we see Articles 5 and 7. Why do notification procedures, ladies and gentlemen, need a regulatory framework? Disclosure is: 'I tell you I am working'. Why do the complex regulatory framework which the specific regulations of Article 5(3) need to regulate? Why do we need that? However, this will be a further source of delay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need a little time to complete and I will not go into it. Go to the approvals provided for in Article 8. So we need approval. The approvals are for sixty days. First comment: Now will you learn from us that the time limits set by the legislator are judged by the courts as indicative? The administration will tell you "I haven't had time". And the judge who checks, he will say, 'he has not made it before'. And the 'no' of the administration is a rule. And that is not enough, you say here about a presidential decree that can increase deadlines. We're not doing well! The space of the economy doesn't have time. And you seem to have plenty of time, too much time. You think you've got it, but underneath the economy, it's just society. And, ladies and gentlemen, when this is implemented - which is not to be implemented - one can be self-empted, that is to say, control through these fraudulent rallys is not an ante. I was very pleased to see the majority Members in their Latin terms, who articulate them, but what ex ante means and ex post do not know. I'll tell you what ex post check is. You open up the business and check it out - you've worked and spent it - and it tracks you five fewer points - the known ones, you're now imprisoning Jerusalem in your own space. And it's closing. You - says the legislator, who comes here seriously - you have the legislative procedures to address, that is, five years and seven years, instead of regulating for ex post a special procedure and the administration for the objection and for what is known as the control - no one here is entitled to say that he does not know what local government and public administration are - ladies and gentlemen. Instead of telling him that you have a special channel to act objecting to justice and administration, he says, "I refer you to classic procedures." See Article 12 and tell me if you are making a difference to the specificity of this arrangement. It refers to the generally applicable and the ideas reports. These are the problems, ladies and gentlemen. These are the problems, which relate almost all of the Greek economy. This is a station. Do you have a picture of what we'll discuss next week on the state budget? How many, ladies and gentlemen, are state expenditure on salaries and pensions? How much are the operating expenses? There's nothing from there to cut off, especially with the personal difference that springs as a spoil of the Minister of Social Security. What remains to be thought of even today's Criminal Opposition, which says correctly to reduce taxes? Where? Nowhere. Whoever says'reduction of taxes' means cutting pensions and wages if he does not say how he will do growth here and now. Can I say it again? Anyone who says'reduction of taxes and contributions', without saying where he will find it, without explaining the rapid development process, a large part of which is today's draft law - unfortunately, the legislator is not serious - means wages and pensions, wages and pensions after which personal differences are reduced, namely Bulgaria's pensions, to communicate. Ladies and gentlemen, or taxes, contributions and cuts or growth. We choose the second. But we know very well what we mean, we know very well what we mean. And, ladies and gentlemen, I said it yesterday and I want to say it again, because it did not even come out of an unrecognised politician to be released in the House and in the media: We are in 2016, which ends, and starts in 2017. Let me remind you that in 2019 we also have European elections and regional and municipal elections. I would remind you that the country is in danger of going into a new adventure of political insecurity for three or four years, that is, it is doomed. We are talking, however, with the citizens, but we are meeting, protesting to us, or cheering us if we have done something good. The Greeks and Greeks do not raise a new failure. And there is no politician who can stand up if things go on like this. Unfortunately, we are in a universal trap. Unfortunately, it is very unpleasant for a Vice-President of the Opposition to address a new Minister, who has shown something in his area, but he has so much appreciated what he has shown, which the government has taken care of him and his responsibilities, it is unpleasant for me to address Mr Haritsis and say to him that incompetence, lack of plan, lack of skill, and even a lack of consciousness about what you bring with a successful title, but with bad content, are predestined, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the worst of the economy. And those who are today opposed must, with thought, think about changing the relationships between us and not moving, some from the opposition, against the Democratic Association scripts that are not there for meetings of non-existent ones, for divisions that will never take place, in order for others to benefit. We are clear and unequivocal: We have a high sense of responsibility, we have a great deal of experience and on us games no one will play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of Democratic Association, PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr Pappa, I have told you before, there is an agreement between the parties that a parliamentary representative and three Members should speak. I ask you, why would anyone who wants to make use of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u68	No, normally the MPs. I didn't ask for anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the need to simplify the procedures for the establishment and licensing of businesses has been repeated many times in this Chamber, but also in the public debate. In particular, however, this debate has been intensified within the crisis. It is easy to understand why, at a time when things were moving at a growth rate of 4% and 5%, the period when businesses worked and turnovers were at a high level, there were no such issues. But there's always been. In the need to protect the environment, to protect the cultural capital of the country, to protect the safety of workers, to protect public health, to protect consumers' lives, to lay down conditions, rules and provisions, many times were not preconditions for the establishment, but stumbling blocks for the establishment and pursuit of an activity. We need to see this, that there has indeed been, in terms of Union legal order, such an over-reacting effort, which has caused enormous problems for entrepreneurship. I would remind you that, to a large extent, the simplification of the environmental licensing procedure with a number of legislative initiatives, which PASOK has introduced since 2011 and then not only in the field of environmental licensing. There was, therefore, a great deal of innovation in changing the method of authorizing construction work, in building permits, which you will remember were during the periods of great building activity, with towns being on the front line of corruption. The great change that has been made with the permit to build and to effectively issue the building licence by the civil engineer himself, this huge change has really changed things. And all that electronic. This concept must be extended to all areas. Already in 2006, when Mr Soufas, as Minister of Development, had brought in a bill to simplify procedures, I had tabled a number of proposals and amendments to simplify procedures and to certify even private bodies, self-government bodies, chambers mainly and private bodies certified, which could be licensed and approved for the start-up and continuation of business. So all this is through a need, which is exacerbating, because of the crisis, because of the need to support entrepreneurship and, of course, to create new jobs. It is invoked by the bill that it is based on the three axes which have to do with the protection of public health, the environment, culture and, of course, consumers and workers. These are basic principles which must indeed be respected. We must build up up there, so we must move on. It's a continuance step. That's how I see it. If one were to hear the Minister, who was here today alone, without knowing what government he is or anything else, he would listen to a liberal minister of a European Union country who is trying to take a step in one direction. This is very good, in that it tries, in a context on which we must press. Of course, as I said, no discounts should be made. In other words, what was said yesterday in the debate on another bill, that the activities which may bring about irreversible changes in the environment or people's culture or health should not be subject to the 'autonomous' procedure, yes, it is very right and we must observe it. I come to the subject of the general economic recovery. I would like to say that what is missing from the country today is the strategy on how to move forward. There are three - four tools, which we need to use and we can use, but there is no plan that we will work on. In my opinion, there is the engine that can work, but there is no steering system, a driving system in short, even though there are many drivers. We must say that in the ESDP, even now, despite the warnings we have made, we have recently had a lost semester. All the regional leaders of the country are protesting. No 4412 was passed and neither the transitional provisions nor the Presidential Decrees and Ministerial Decisions for its implementation are applicable. An extra lost semester! Development law. Just two years have passed since Mr Stathakis had heavy expressions here on the recovery - it was also on the doors - but two years have passed and we have seen nothing. Now, of course, when he went to the other ministry, I think some procedures are unblocked, because some people say it was his fault that he was not acting in that direction. What's wrong with the Yunker package? Another tool. Credit system, banks. Can they provide liquidity to implement ESRB projects to implement development law projects? Recently, after a lot of pressure, the program 'I'm saving by house' was reopened. The banks, because they can't borrow, what do they say? They take off negatively, and so this programme will brake, even though it is part of the funding from the NSRF and even if the Ministry proceeded with it. What about the banking system? Look: Last year, when you provoked with what you did the need to recapitalise the banks, then you humiliated yourself. You've taken a moment's step. In fact, you said that you also saved resources because the resources for the recapitalisation were not needed. No, gentlemen. A aggressive recapitalisation of the banks had to be carried out last year, so that they could deal with their inherent problems due to red loans and be able to finance, regardless of the course of the negotiations on the fate of red loans. You took the step forward, you say instead of 25 billion, only five were needed. You only put five of them, badly. Because the need for the banking system is not to have some officials or banks with labels, but to fund entrepreneurship in these programmes, produce new jobs and get people to work. And you didn't. I come now - and I close with them - on the question of how to legislate. Yesterday we had the fake incident. The Minister says he's pulling it off. Today we had the episode and the article with criminal responsibilities. The Minister says he's pulling it off. What's he gonna say about withdrawing it? It was right and it entered regardless of the disputes of counterpopulation, or was it invaded, because some people who were able to write it, wrote it in, and that's why it was withdrawn? You need to make it clear. If there is the possibility for some to pass such provisions, which are then judged by the minority that they have been poorly passed and withdrawn, you should see the system how it works. But if they are correct, you should support them. Didn't you tell us, is it right or wrong? When my colleagues signed here, led by Mr Voutsi, welcoming the President - for the roll-call vote relating to the criminal responsibilities of the EMEA, they did not hear the arguments which both the Scientific Committee and the government at the time. I do not want to read the names, colleagues and absentees are here. They've left us, because they've gone outside the House, in the People's Unity. But in charge is Nikos Voutsis. Can an amendment not come and, after the first protest, say 'a, what is that'? It's probably got to be done. I don't know. You can tell us, you can support it, you can analyse it to us. In this way, however, we cannot go any further. That is why we insist that, for the big issue of the country, where the country goes, there should be a framework of national consultation on the country's roadmap, including the development and production plan and the initiatives that we need to take, and of course, we should look at the issues that have to do with our work here in Parliament, so that we have a necessary legislative work, which supports such a perspective for the country. Today, while the country has covered the huge deficits it had in the past in the budgetary field, in the current account balance, in the trade balance, it has a huge political deficit. And the Greek people must understand that the measures, taxes, overtaxes and cuts that are being made are being made because of the political deficit, which the government has and lack of strategy, because the other deficits have succeeded with its sacrifices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Mr. Ursuzides has the floor for seven minutes. And keep the time, so all colleagues can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the bill, which concerns the fight against bureaucracy - it could be called that - and the removal of all kinds of obstacles, of chronic obstacles, which are invading the work of the people who are trying. After yesterday's procedure in the Committee on Production and Trade it was understood that the majority of the bodies, as expressed, are probably in agreement with the bill, with some reservations on individual issues. The same is evident from the parties, which have participated in the committee, but also here today. Therefore, one would say that it is a bill, which receives the broadest acceptance, but which creates feelings of over-estimation, I would say, because it is not enough for a bill, which facilitates or encourages some to attempt, but the real conditions that exist on the market today. This is not solved by a piece of legislation, even the best it was, but it is a matter of interventions, which must be done in matters, which the free traders feel are unfavourable. So, without triumphing, I would like to say that it is the Treaty that is necessary to invest in the country in an easier way, but it is not the right one, which will create those conditions, so that hopeful growth can come. The question, therefore, raised by many who came yesterday - and I am focusing on the representatives of the Archaeological Service - is whether there is a question on the protection of antiquities, this huge cultural reserve available to the country, which really needs to be protected, and whether this bill raises issues relating to the protection of antiquities. My view is that with the article on the new way in which to deal with the issues relating to archaeology, that is to say, when the Archaeological Service can react and protect the places it considers to be protected, demarcating whole areas, characterizing them as protected and establishing, at the same time, the way in which they should be protected, that is to say, monuments with the subject in an absolute way, as is the case today, and those which have a person in these monuments, should benefit from the approval of Archaeology and the rest of the area, which will exercise control over the control of excavations, as is the case today throughout the whole territory. I therefore think that Law 3028/2002 is not affected by this bill, simply calling for the speeding up of certain procedures and for the clarification of matters relating to protection and the authorisation procedure. I shall therefore read what exactly the article at issue provides for and how the legislator explains it in the explanatory statement. With a view to homogenising the treatment of this area of archaeological interest, it is planned to adopt regulatory joint decisions of the Ministers for the Interior, Development, Culture and Sport to identify the areas of archaeological interest in which the activities of this chapter can be carried out - and the activities are specific, three, not to mention them, because they have been said, especially those of health interest shops. The purpose of the arrangement is to record the archaeological points in advance in order to make it known - and this should be - where an activity can be installed and to avoid delays on a case-by-case basis when an archaeology approval is being considered. The proposed regulation, after the adoption of the regulatory decisions, is expected to speed up the opening of shops set up in areas of archaeological interest. In other words, the aim of the legislature is to help entrepreneurs, to direct themselves to the fact that, if they choose to engage in activities in specific areas, they know that in advance, so that they can also bear the cost of investment and risk. It is well known that the areas that are now protected, as is the case here in the capital city, Athens or other cities, which have a real and similar history, such as Thessaloniki and Veroia, are more attracted to young people and there are activities that concern health stores. This does not affect these areas, regardless of the fact that they are being circumvented, but this is not about the protection regime. And today they are protected and I would say in an even more strict manner. However, the result that the world experiences is that young people come close to the original, old, genuine - and this is very positive - but, on the other hand, people living in these areas suffer noise pollution, which, in any case, exists, either with this legislation or with the previous one. Consequently, all that we have experienced with previous activities and the unfamiliar environmental impact studies, which were essentially about the desire of each investor to justify the investment, often unjustified - that is the reality - will be able to be cured by the checks, which must be substantial and carried out, in such a way as to assess the degree of risk caused by this activity. So, basically, the legislation will help and encourage a lot of people, but it is not necessary and capable of developing. That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Aylonitou, who is third in a row, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years ago I had taken this step in the debate on the bill: "Simplification of the authorisation for the exercise of economic activity" of the then co-chairing of the New Democracy and PASOK, which was passed and made the law of the state. It is Law 4262/2014, which we are replacing today. Because the rapporteur of the New Democracy has become confused with today's law, which the government brings, and he wonders why we are changing a law - cut-off, as the previous government described as the law, I will therefore unblock you by explaining and clarifying some things. At that time, I pointed out that the main problem of this bill was that it gave the Minister overpowered him, simplifying his control, abolishing his opacity and secrecy, opening up a lateral process of approval by delay, and finally completely ignored the ban on changing the Presidential Decree for five years, as if the Minister had signed it would freeze every technological development. It is therefore of particular interest to compare how the current government is dealing with the same issues in the bill: 'New institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions', which we have before us. What remains to be done is to remove obstacles to economic activity. It is a long tradition, ladies and gentlemen, in our country, to deal with all the problems through prohibitions and authorisations, as if what is not explicitly allowed is forbidden. These permits are supposed to be carried out after checks of things that exist and do not exist, things that are important and insignificant, things that need control, but also things that have no reason to check. After a while, the relevant bureaucratic mechanisms created to control an object, acquire autonomy in this object, giganticize and drown the object. We're getting to the end. There is the document required by law to be politically served or motivated by corruption. But there is the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, of a different approach. Today's bill distinguishes that some economic activities do not need any control, others only need notification, to be able to control their operation and some need approval after they have been checked before they start. But there, where control is needed, today's bill is not looking for how to cancel it side by side. The general spirit of the bill is the control of the operation of the company. This is really important, since you can create a virtual reality with papers, meet bureaucratic requirements, and then do other things. The current legislation on each activity continues to apply and applies with controls. In cases where there is a need for control and authorisation before a business starts up, the unsuccessful provisions of Law 4262/2014, which the rapporteur of New Democracy, is questioning, are being changed. In particular, the planned automatic approval after 50 days of any unanswered request, which was equivalent to all the activities concerned with regard to the need for control, is now determined by a Presidential Decree. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we do this? It is not the same thing to approve a refinery and to approve a quarry. They have different requirements, as you understand. Secondly, the absolute secrecy that reached the establishment - listen, listen - of a confidential public consultation under New Democracy - PASOK's law 4262/2014 is limited to confidentiality of the business's secrets. Thirdly, the absurd prediction that the President-in-Office's decrees cannot change for the entire five years is abolished, since technology is evolving at its own pace and does not ask the Minister. Fourthly, as regards the curious provision of Law 4262/2014 limiting the number of operating authorisations for an economic activity, the provision is amended and clarified by the current bill that it refers to the exploitation of a particular natural rare public resource and aims to protect that resource, thereby removing the possibility of misusing the provision for the creation of artificial monopolies. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So, where there is a need for control, there will be an audit, while, where necessary, people will not be troubled without reason by endless bureaucratic procedures. Not to forget, however, they are leaving and what was provided for by Law 4262/2014 for the rating, compliance bodies, i.e. the private companies that took over the control and certification of the compliance of each company with specific standards. Now, competent authorities are the legislation under way, and the role of private operators is limited to cases where they have a certain specialisation that the public needs. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you want to privatise even state bureaucracy. On the contrary, we simply want to abolish it. I am therefore voting on the principle and on the articles of the bill under discussion, whose only fault is that it may be too late to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u75	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor. Three speakers will be followed and then a parliamentary representative will be given the floor again. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u76	And today the Prime Minister is absent and, in view of the crisis, as is said by the Communism, but also by the opposition, Eurogroup on Monday. Really, how's the Prime Minister? Is he fulfilling his grave - as the African-American President Obama did - with his insistence on visiting the Sacred Rock - visiting Cuba? Is the Prime Minister on a winter holiday? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And holidays and tama and early communist years. Mr. Tsipras speaks eulogy of his idol, the communist dictator Fidel Castle. "HASE" is coming out today: "Hasta la Victoria siempre". "Always to victory," he says. Mr. Tsipras should normally say something else. Mr. Tsipras should say something else! He should say: Hasta la silla siempre. In other words, "always loyal to my chair". After we said the Tsipras, which is not worth more, take the history of the future "AYIOS". There's always the sense of humor. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned newspaper, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to refer to a spokesman for a party, which is shown by six liars and liars and slander against the nationalist movement. I shall therefore accuse him of this, who is discrediting our movement, is not at this moment in the Chamber, if he is watching the Minutes himself will understand who I am speaking about and who he is. He said, therefore, that the Golden Dawn in plenary, but also in committees, mentioned nothing about Article 15 of yesterday's bill on the fight against the smuggling of fuel. In essence, it is not the fight, it is the liberalisation of the fuel trade. Golden Dawn, of course, voted against and denounced Article 15. He has reported, not only in this Chamber, but also with questions that have been asked in parliamentary scrutiny, many times, the great interests of the fuel traders, which many of these smugglers have had, the big bourgeois, to be also friends of political leaders, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and the meaning of it. So let this party stop slandering and dealing with the house, which houses falsifying, devastated, lost, and as they say, seeks to change VAT in order to avoid its debts. On the substance and continuing, I would like to stress again today, as in yesterday's speech, that Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is in great danger. The detainees, Prime Minister, Ministers, President of the Civilian opposition, President of the Republic shelled the island and are in a state of total paralysis. NATO and the American fleet, whose presence in the Aegean Sea will increase, perpetuates. Obama himself, in the television address to the Presidential Palace, thanked Mr. Pavlopoulou, referring to the crisis in the Middle East, for the Greek offer and the facilities he provides to the naval and American ships. When you themselves rulers and the Minister of National Defense, Mr. Kammenos, tried to convince us that you brought NATO to the Aegean Sea - he stepped on the Aegean on the left government - for the good of Greece, Obama himself gives thanks for the facilities for the good of Natali and American interests. When did the Greek politicians stand up, at least during the period of the Transition, for it to stand up and now? When did national interests really defend themselves? From July 15, 1974 until the proclamation of the pseudo-crats, until the casus belli in Turkey, until the Imia and the deepening of the Aegean, until today, with the question of the Treaty of Losan, that is, the entire post-government period, Greece also retreates, and the Greek rulers, loyal to foreign interests, are retreating away at all times saying: "Yes men. Yes boss.’ Turkey for both the New Democracy and PASOK Government and SYRIZA - ANEL is considered an allied country - and in theory it is an ally, since it is also in NATO - and all these governments are implementing the policy of resentment and are in endless discussions about confidence-building measures with it, when we are weakening and dismantling the Armed Forces. The responsible leaders in this area of the Armed Forces, Ministers, and even military personnel, show with satisfaction the cuts made for the National Defence and the cuts to be made in the budget that will be voted on next week. Only EUR 14 million are provided for each House separately, namely for Army, Navy and Air Force, in the 2017 budget! You leave the country naked and unprotected, without Armed Forces, while the Turk is equipped. It orders planes of the last generation, F-15, orders aircraft carriers, which will also be stricken in the Aegean, and in Cyprus, and in the Aylon. It creates the Islamic and Turkish maximum against Greece. Of course, someone will wonder, what can we do? He will rightly ask, but the nationalists will answer. Much can be done, provided there is will and political will. In order to survive as a people and as a nation, we must ensure our land and sea borders, we must again become a country with self-sufficiency, a country that will flee from the size of the lenders and a people that will give birth to Greeks and Greeks. In other words, what the Golden Dawn says must be done in a firm manner: the complaint of the memorandum, the refusal of the burden of debt, the auditing of accounts and the general accounting assessment of what has been done since 1980 with the European Community at the time and the current European Union. So how much does this European Union owe us, which has broken up Greek primary production? Above all, they need powerful Armed Forces - I would say this above all - so they can take us seriously enemies and friends. So there must be a turn to national production, the creation of a people's and national state, with social welfare and merit, with social justice and humanism, the closure of borders, literally sealing land and sea. We must neutralise the bomb that is currently in our country, which will, as a matter of course, be unsafe, with terrible and chaotic consequences, that is, the Islamic bomb. The Aegean and Thrace are in danger, and the Greek itself is in danger. His existence is at stake, not only by possessing a foreign force, but also by starvation, with all these commemorative measures that you all take together, hand - hand. And, let these opposition crowns of the New Democracy cease now because they are for the eyes of the world. You're the same! You're voting together! And because the world that sees us understands that you are the same, SYRIZA and New Democracy, how timely are these words of the great Marcus Tillius Cicero, the Roman philosopher, political and orator? Cicero says: "A nation can survive the fools and even its ambitious ones. But he cannot survive treason within him. An enemy before the gates is less dreadful because he is known and keeps his flag raised, but the traitor moves between those who are in the gates freely, his subtle whispers are smiling in all the courtyards, they are heard to the chambers of the government itself. Because the traitor doesn't look at all as a traitor. He speaks with an accent known to his victims, and wears their faces and garments, addressed to the micropsy that is deep in the souls of all people. He rotates a nation's soul, works secretly and secretly at night to undermine the city's penis, pollutes the political body so that it can no longer resist. The killer must be less afraid of him. The traitor is the scourge." A better mirror than the Greek political scene could not exist thousands of years ago. I've been teaching for our country the Memorandum Governments of the last seven years. And because I have referred to the newspaper 'AUGIA' - I am tabling it in the Minutes - I shall refer to another newspaper, which has a different title. It is not "AGE" because the dawn can also be clouded, it can be black and spooky, such as the years we spend with SYRIZA. But there is also the Golden Dawn, the Greek dawn. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned newspaper, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Title of the newspaper: 'Black December'. We are entering December, and in recent years the attacks of the so-called 'anti-detectoral arc', in this area which enjoys the privilege of immunity, both by the state and the media, as they are said. We had the recent example of the invasion of the group "Ruviconas" in the Athens Court of Appeal with the case of Sakka - Sejcidis. However, in addition to this, these punks arrived in Maroussi and murdered a Member of the Greek Parliament, George Germenis, the MP of the Golden Dawn, and none of you had the courage to denounce, condemn this attack. The elementary parliamentarian!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u77	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u78	When did this happen? You're a nice congressman to be watching the news! Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u79	We convicted it, you're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u80	You convicted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u81	All right, don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Pappa, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u82	You convicted? Your party leader didn't make a word, 'kitch' didn't say. If it were for the symbiosis pact, it would do whole theories.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u83	Of course, we convicted it. You're not up to date. Written announcement we made "we condemn the attack". Let us know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u84	Anyway, I'll see you then, if you want. The point is that this is a platoon in front of all the things you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u85	What you're saying is untrue. Let us know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u86	And what was in the announcement? I read it and had in it "other words to be loved."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u87	He said 'we condemn the attack'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u88	In any case, I would like to say that a black December is coming. There's a geerale rehearsal right now. They are protected by these punks, because in government objectives there are various companions. Do not forget your phenomena in 2008, when Athens burned and said "do not do anything". It was the government of the New Democracy, Minister himself, the President of the New Democracy now, Prime Minister, your tired man. And not only did Athens burn down, half of Greece burned. And what did you do? You ran your own executives who really said that we were in danger, that we were faced with an asymmetrical threat. They were. And you went through them, you fooled them. We'll have big facts. We have this information. I would finally like to prosecute not the political leadership of the now-known Ministry of Civil Protection - God must protect the citizen - that is, the Ministry of Public Order, but the military, the police leadership. Mr. Crystals of ELAS, generals of ELAS, if you have the guts, if some people don't let you do your job properly, go out and report it! So heavy are the stars on the shoulder? Is that sweet? Because it sounds like there is political intervention in the physical leadership of ELAS not to do its job properly. I close, ladies and gentlemen, not to you, but to the Greek people who see us, to those who see us as Greeks and Greeks at the moment, and I say: My dear patriots, Greeks and Greeks, it is well known that our country is at great risk. In the days in which we live, not only will the tomorrow of our children and generations come, but the nation and race itself be established. The problems and the war that have been declared to us by the international leaders of globalisation cannot be managed by their local subordinates. The Memorandum on the Right and the Memorandum on the Left are the fifth column and the two sides of this coin. Apart from the Left and the Right, there is Greece in which we believe, in her and only in her, which is the mother of all of us and stands above all of us. Give the battle with us to get our homeland back for national independence and social justice, with Golden Dawn for a new, free Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr Constantine Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time there was an irreversible, neoliberal and triumphant government in this place, which had taken various destructive initiatives, including the radical simplification of the licensing of businesses. He had brought a framework law in May 2014 4262. It was a law agreed by the government at the time with the World Bank. It was a law that he hailed the whole business community. It was a law that followed the best international practices for rapid business licensing, even on the same day in some cases. It was a law that had started to apply, that is to say, two ministerial decisions had already been made to simplify licensing to a hundred and eight hundred ninety-seven different occupations. This law provided that from 1-1-2015, to stop the kitten among the ministers, the Minister of Development on his own could continue these ministerial decisions and go to a completely different setting for the licensing of businesses in Greece. That's what happened with the previous three-faced government! The government came to bring growth to the place. What did that government do? With the previous Minister - who left SYRIZA in the summer of 2015 - he naturally saw it completely negative. However, the new mandate and the new government came from September 2015 onwards, and the new government shape decided to simply put this law in the fridge. Now she comes and brings her own radical, supposedly intervention. The previous law was of course not the plates of Moses. We don't come in this mood here. I want, however, honestly, ladies and gentlemen, to put to you and to the Greek citizens, in simple terms, a few questions for us all to understand what is going on today with this bill. First, it was considered by the previous law that the business was free, except in cases where, for environmental reasons, the State could impose restrictions on archaeology. You're making the way back today. Everything is forbidden, except in cases where the wise government and the wise ministry allow us to have some business. Secondly, you limit the scope. Previous intervention was a horizontal intervention. To you, this horizontal intervention has dropped a great deal and you have decided to have only three areas of activity. All right, all right, all Thank you for not limiting it to two or even one! Thirdly, the possibility of awarding certification for the authorisation to private operators is annulled. We predicted that this can be done at the KTEOs, that is instead of the state itself controlling every car, controlling the KTEOs. This thing is cancelled and allowed only exceptionally. Fourthly - and I would like you to think about this and tell me what this is all about - we predicted that in order for the business to be organised, in the case of business parks it was enough to license the park. You cancel this article and return us to the old regime that needs and authorisation of the park and authorisation of the business. That's how you expect investment in Greece to come. Fifthly, the draft law provides for paradoxicality for all categories of economic activity, not only for those under authorisation, that is to say, increasing the misconduct. Now watch the political schizophrenia! Yesterday you were right to come and abolished, you limited the money needed for the legal formation of companies. Today, one day later, you, the same government, come and increase the paradox needed for licensing. When did you do the right thing, yesterday or today? Tell me to understand too, to know if I have to support the SYRIZA of yesterday or the SYRIZA of today, because I can't support both of them. Then you come with the known tendency to present the black white in Article 14 and enter the complete information system for exercising activities and controls. Except that this system is nothing but the central portal of economic activity under Article 25 of the previous law. You're baptizing. You didn't like the previous name and you replace it with it. That's a big structural change! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say clearly that I regret to say that the creditors, who had agreed and welcomed the previous arrangement, are coming and agreeing with yours. This is indicative of both the government and creditors. I'm clearly reappearing without unnecessary diplomatic fluorescents. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this: this bill shows that this government at the same time undermines itself and also the prospects of the economy. Why? Her self because she once again confirms her favorite practice to remove her from the world and from her former fans, to baptize fish meat, cuts in increases, social policy taxes and backward progress. But it also harms the country, because it is clear that it does not believe in the reforms it needs, which it simply swallows as a bitter pill. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, a European government, which, alone in Europe, is present at the ceremonies for Castle, at the same time having the illusion, yet another delusion that this will gain market confidence. The markets and investors, well or bad, we need them. But to invest in Greece, to enter the house and open new jobs, a government that really needs entrepreneurship friendly. A government that just ruins and previous right measures is not going to win the game. That is why, and I regret to say this, whether or not the case goes well - and we hope - and not with the debt settlement, you will in the end not avoid the elections, because you are a government which is self-sufficient, which cannot in any way win the bet on the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, fifty students and students and five trainers from the High School of Tropical Arcadia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Evangelia Karakosta has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u92	I should like to say good evening to my colleagues and colleagues who are here. And let me begin by raising this issue, and in my opinion it is worth it, with the visit of our Prime Minister to Cuba. It is really worthy of congratulations today, in these difficult times for our country, to visit and evaluate a leader who has abolished the dictatorship in his country and has brought dignity and fairness to people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u93	We had an election, Mrs. Caracosta, in Cuba?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u94	I'd visited Cuba during the Castro season. And I want to testify to this as a witness. I asked a girl in a coffee: "What do you have to say about Castle?" The answer was: 'Consciousness'. I was not told either about their poverty or anything else, but about dignity. And this last testimony, I don't testify at random. I would like to present it because, from this point of dignity, I want to start talking about this bill that we are bringing today, given that the technical aspects have been mentioned by many colleagues. With such a bill, what do we want to show? That we trust the citizen - free trade really to enter the labour market on his own responsibility. What do we want to achieve? The free professional feels he needs to change his country and his mentality. In other words, it must not try to resort to all the difficulties that a state presents to it, but it must really assume the responsibility of building a proper and legitimate undertaking. And on the basis of the laws of the state that lives, it should work on it. It is, in my opinion, very important. I am also referring to the rapporteur on the JRC. I am particularly interested in understanding that change in the world is not without a change in people's attitudes. In other words, the citizen must feel what his responsibility is, what his values are, build these values and feel that he must live in a rule of law. So that is how we really need to move on to the legislation we are doing. Of course, we must safeguard and not leave the unfair businessman unavoidable. This is where the checks laid down in the draft law come in. It is therefore very important, firstly, that we give the legitimate citizen, who, in my opinion, is the majority in Greece today and, secondly, through strict controls, find this citizen who is lawless, stays in the unavoidable and finds ways of escape. Yesterday in committee, there were two categories of posts and it was no accident. One charge was from the representatives of the professions, and the other category was from the public administration. I was very impressed by the fear expressed by the civil servants in the freedom that this law gives me - and I have the feeling that this is what they must see, because the arguments they have put forward were not really, they were arguments that were made in control and we must stand by it - and not licensing. Because licensing has not yet established us in the law and proper functioning. Of course, they were willing to take the leave and then do the wrongful deeds at whatever level, whoever did them. So let's go to control. The state must have control. And how can we guarantee this? Two points. Firstly, the fact that these licences come out of the information system, and therefore the neighbour, the resident, the citizen, the mayor, can check what it is all about, make his objection or whatever the second one - and what I mentioned earlier - is public service controls, on the basis of the legislation that exists. To achieve this, it is clear that we must extend to all areas the digital state. We must move on from the government as soon as possible. It is clear, but you cannot have at this level the enormous anxiety Mr Loverdos expressed here and described us as dangerous for the time when this digital track was implemented for this law, given that they had the power as government several years before doing so and did not. It is important to say that even in the economic sector, New Democracy really blames us that we are now discovering the private sector. I would like to answer this question: there has always been a private sector and there will always be a private sector. However, no private businessman can move out of law and out of control of the state. So we want to bring a new picture to entrepreneurship, which will really be covered by fair entrepreneurship. It is a phrase that we use, we want to preserve and we want the private businessman to inspire, so that we can change Greece's image. It is true that a spokesman of the New Democracy has promised too much on the basis of what Mr Mitsotakis said in his various speeches about what he will do. I have to advise him that, because he will be too late, he may promise much, because he may think that the Greek people will forget it and so he may pass. But the result of this government, given the laws that we are now voting on, I think it will soon appear. The Greek people have already understood what was happening before and what we are going to do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is at least anger to talk about the need to improve the business climate and about restoring competitiveness, the government that pursued and pursues healthy entrepreneurship, hard taxed it, provoked it to the altar of its ideological obsessions and all sacrifices to preserve the sacred cow, the party of the state. Your sacred cow, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because for your day the increase in the cost of public wages - due to the recruitment of days, of course - reaches 146 million euros a year, while the private sector, employees and pensioners are evacuated. It really needs a great deal of courage from your Government to be able to support seriously that the bill you bring to Parliament for the exercise of economic activity is a new institutional framework, necessary to simplify the Greek licensing system, which was supposedly deprived of an integrated strategic approach. Who claims that? A government which, through Mr Stathakis, stated that the New Democracy law, which for the first time introduced these simplifications, would be the basis for the new legislative framework. You were the government that showed no interest in implementing this law. You have frozen him for two years, and when you have given you a slow and relaxed way to deal with the issue, you have brought the House a draft law, a mischief of our own legislation, and in the form of urgency, when you had the consultation on 13 August. Since then, of course, it has been three and a half months since you come to the House and tell us that we have to vote in two days and while you are in a hurry to vote for it, at the same time as you are destroying every sense of parliamentary procedure - I remind you of what Illegally happened in the Committee on Production and Trade, in order to find a quorum - the Members of the committee adjourned for no reason, in order to defend the urgency with the necessary majority, Mr President - at the same time you are introducing a absurd transitional period, which starts on 1 January 2019. Two years the law in the fridge and two years in the transition stage, a total of four years until the implementation of the new regulations, with which you want to, you are supposed to facilitate the business environment. But even so, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with these things back in your bill, I fear that it creates more problems than it is supposed to solve, because at a time when the economic strengths of all citizens are being tested, you, even here, are being governed by the logic of taxation. And what are you doing? You are even engraving at the start of the economic activity, with the obligation to pay a relevant infringement, when in the previous law, Law No 4262/2014, a paradox was foreseen only for business operators under the operating authorisation regime. And while, of course, in the previous law all of these funds coming from these paradoxes go to the revenues of the municipalities, you come and transfer 20% of these offenders to the state budget, depriving of the necessary financial resources from the already poor local government funds. This draft law, therefore, if we are counting on the lengthening of the time you bring to appeals and the hereditary and procrastination status that you are fatally bringing to the entrepreneur, it is obvious that it is an example of a allegedly reformist policy, as in the end all the policies and announcements of SYRIZA and your Government are supposed to be. I would now like, ladies and gentlemen, to come to the provisions on accommodation. Allow me to say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the policies to facilitate tourist entrepreneurship are not implemented by means of provisions that call into question the safety, quality and reliability of our tourism product. You are indeed the last, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who can talk about policies to strengthen the tourist product. Because you are the ones who, for your day, Greek tourism has unfortunately recorded a record drop in tourist revenues in the most popular month of August. We are talking about a decade-old record drop, of 9.2%, in a otherwise favourite geopolitical context, which we will not have the opportunity to have forever, and with a acquired dynamic that our government has given you, for record profits this year and consistently over the next few years. Why are you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who over-taxed the industry with the increase in VAT in the accommodation area, from 6.5% to 13%, with the increase in VAT in the focus from 13% to 24%, with a tsunami of indirect taxes - in coffee, alcoholic drinks, heating, pay TV, internet - making the tourist basket more expensive and the Greek tourism product uncompetitive than its international competitors. I imagine that Mr. Haritsis does not care about a record drop in revenues in tourism, as does Mrs. Karakosta. Why are you, Minister, who prevented the conquest of Greek islands by abolishing the reduced rate of VAT on seventeen Aegean islands, as in another fifty-four, when our international competitors maintain in their areas the zero or reduced rate of VAT. I ask you, Minister, directly, as well as the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Finance: will you exclude from the increase in VAT the islands affected by the refugee - immigration as a minimum sign of support for the local economies and societies that are evacuated? Because you are the ones who, with the tragic management of the refugee - immigration - grasped the image of the country as safe and harmless tourist destinations, undermining one of the most important diverse advantages of the Greek tourist product. For you are the one who left indisposed Community funds of millions of euros, with your carelessness and your improperness, to reverse this gray image, which cost the affected islands and will cost the Greek cruise a million passengers in 2017, hundred and seventy confirmed cancellations of approaches of international companies to the Greek ports. The most important thing is that the cart that draws the Greek economy, our tourism, undermined it, pursued it, sedated it. Minor, then, management policies do not save the great picture. And with your tolerance, Mr President, I am closing down with a political comment on what is happening in the last few hours with the Prime Minister's attitude in Cuba. Mr. Tsipras, who is ready to regain invisible red lines on the negotiation issue, went to rediscover his left in the square of the revolution in Havana, comparing the Greek Revolution of 1921 with the occupation of power by Castle and at the same time attacking neoliberalism and the inhuman logic of the market laws, that market that would hit the duoul and would dance at its pace. If things were not so critical on all the fronts of the country, we could really deal with the Prime Minister, who went to do his children's and adolescent dreams, bad on neoliberalism and markets in Latin America and Cuba, good at neoliberalism and markets in America, Germany and Brussels and within the country, depending on the audience, depending on his face and rhetoric, at the rate of chameleon. The problem with the Prime Minister is, of course, that he has lost the political compass. Instead of being in Athens and vigilant about the Turkish challenges, Albanian ruthlessness and the constant pressures of lenders for new measures, he is chasing the windmills of neoliberalism in distant Cuba and imagining himself as a communist. I hope he wakes up quickly from childhood dreams before the country relives new nightmares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u98	Before giving the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, I will give the floor to the Minister to place himself on his amendments. These are three amendments, Minister. And I would remind you that you said in your speech that you intend to testify to a minister or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u99	For the three amendments, I should like to say that the number 779 and 780 is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u100	Let me put it another way: should we expect a ministerial amendment as it has been said or not? If you intend to table a ministerial amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u101	We'll file it as soon as the signatures are collected by the co-legal ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u102	Yes, would you like to put yourself on this amendment, or what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u103	To place the Minister on the whole of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u104	Then, when it's filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u105	I'm saying it's for his convenience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u106	It must first be tabled, Mr Kefaliannis, after the Minister has completed his cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u107	As soon as he's submitted, I'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u108	All right, I'd ask you to keep this House informed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u109	Can I talk about the parliamentary amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u110	Sure. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u111	I repeat that the parliamentary amendments under number 779 and 780 are accepted and the amendment under number 781 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u112	Good. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, just a minute, if I may, I would like to make a comment on what has been heard by the last speaker. I would not have taken the floor simply because the issue of islandity has been mentioned, which concerns us very much, and for us it is of great importance, you will allow me to say that especially on these issues, and especially at the current juncture, we should all be a little more careful. And be more careful and check our evidence before we talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u114	What evidence, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u115	Let me finish my position. I listened with caution, I have not interrupted you, and please do not interrupt me too. The information that has to do with the management of Community funds. All the resources - and I say this very clearly and fully aware of what I am saying - which were available for the two regions of North and South Aegean since the previous NRP programming period were fully absorbed. And also, because it is not a matter of Community funds, of course, but of national funding and that through national funding we are trying to strengthen precisely those regions which are under the pressure that we all know, you should already know that from the previous government, in 2014, from the National Public Investment Programme, a million and a half had been given for each of the two regions. Our Government, one of the first acts it has done since 2015 and in an environment, as you can see very restrictive, increased these resources, restored this injustice that had been done for these two regions and reached 6.5 million for each of the two regions of the North and South Aegean. Accordingly, we did so in 2016. In fact, because we are also at the end of 2016 to say - and we have already announced it as a government - that by the end of 2016 - this is, of course, due to a further initiative by the Government which had to do with increasing the resources of the National Public Investment Programme - we are moving towards the activation of a special development plan both for the South and for the North Aegean, so that, together with the self-government authorities and the productive bodies of the two regions, we can in no way implement projects which could be implemented by the co-financed programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, it says inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u117	What do you want, Mrs. Arabaji?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u118	The reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u119	No, you don't have the floor. There's no question of personnel. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u120	Isn't it personal when he says inaccurate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u121	It's not a question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and four teachers from the 1st High Leivadas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u122	...the public statements you've seen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u123	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with a comment. I would not start this way, but I heard my dear and sympathetic colleague, on the part of SYRIZA, Mr Karakosta, referring to Cuba and Mr Tsipras' journey to Cuba and talking about dignity. I would like to answer not personally but politically, that dignity is not living with an average monthly salary of $21. It is decency not to be in the sixty - sixty - one of the eighth countries for freedom of the press. Of course, it is not a dignity that you live in a regime where for sixty years there have been no democratic elections. At least in our view, and I think in the view of all parties who are calling themselves democratic arch parties, a regime that has not been holding elections for sixty years cannot be understood as a democracy. Of course, the presence of the Prime Minister at the funeral of the leader of this regime is only honoured in our country. Of course we express our condolences to the man Castle. We hope, however, that humanity will not relive such regimes, which only had black pages in the political history of their peoples. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Oscar Wilde had said that there are two tragedies in life: One is when our wishes are not met and the second is when they are fulfilled. In this awkward situation, the government has been finding itself in the last few days. Where it seems that there may be a debt reference or that it might get something about the debt, the additional commitments that are being asked of it are such that it might think it was better not to have asked for it ever. A scenario that the government has been shaking in the last days, the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, begins to appear in front of it as a realistic nightmare. In other words, agree on Europe, the European creditors and the International Monetary Fund, on the objectives of the programme, which, yes, include a reference or even a minimum regulation on debt, but also includes many new additional measures. Suddenly, the problem has not been assessed for the second time, with regard to labour or energy, the problem is the new agreement over the next three years, which should be submitted as a medium-term programme by the Government at the beginning of 2017. In the medium term we will see whether it will also develop into a fourth memorandum, i.e. whether it will also be accompanied by a new loan contract. The problem for the Greek society, which is also suffering the consequences of this programme, is that the discomfort that the government has made in the face of this possibility is constantly leading to a schizophrenic political behaviour. We've seen this project before. No one, for example, knows exactly what Mr Tsipras thinks, the Prime Minister of the country for the International Monetary Fund, or rather has a kind of visa card. On the one hand, the International Monetary Fund sees it as a valuable ally in terms of debt settlement, but on the other, it blames him for analgesic work and obsessed with reform issues. On the one hand, the Prime Minister as Doctor Jekyll is addressed to his parliamentary group and analyses with impressive clarity and clarity that derailing the programme will be the perfect disaster for the economy, leading to a new memorandum, on the other hand as a mister Hyde, he remembers his glorious left past, travels to Cuba to give the necessary symbolism and threatens elections that he will not accept new, irrational requirements to describe new measures for 2018. Unfortunately, however, for the Greek society it has been a long time since it has ceased to be a comedian for the government to say that it will be a political negotiation and then some time later to say that it will be a disaster if the programme is not implemented. I personally have no doubt that the government is prepared to give all of it to creditors and to get as little as possible on the debt issue. And she will do this and many more, of course, because what she cares is her political survival, her stay in power, the stay in the chairs. And let us not be surprised by many of our colleagues here, if, in a few days' time, they have provisions which will reduce duty to EUR 5,000, the model of personal differences in pensions will probably be abolished, or - yet - a form of subsidized wage to EUR 527 will appear for workers. Unfortunately, the government is prepared to mortgage the country's future, accepting a primary surplus of 3.5% and for years beyond 2018. In fact, Mr Janakopoulos' attitude to this matter is revealing. In the morning it states that such measures are not acceptable, while shortly afterwards, in the same afternoon, it says that even if such a surplus is anticipated for 2019, it can change. And I ask: How does that work? Assuming again, Mr Minister and colleagues of the Co-Chairmanship, that it will be renegotiated by political negotiation? I too can accept that it could indeed. However, this presupposes a different mix of economic policy, which I think you cannot and do not want to apply. And what would that mixture be? Let's say, for starters, fewer taxes on private individuals and businesses. Do you want it? The answer is, no. While Mr Tsakalots talks about this necessity, the financial staff, in the budget which will be voted on in the next few days for 2017, imposes 2.5 billion new taxes. It has just come out on the news that taxation in Greece now refers to 34% of GDP, which is, unfortunately, a 50-year record. And this, of course, is an achievement of the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. One will tell me that he is, possibly, doing it to catch up with the primary surplus targets. It is still a negative answer. Unfortunately, it does so to magnify an unnecessarily partisan state. It increases, for example, the number of posters in the ministries, even failing the most recent government commitments. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, since December 2012, the number of posters in the Ministries has exceeded two thousand. And this increase in retired persons results in an extra budget expenditure of EUR 146 million. What the government could also do in a different policy mix is to implement a resource-saving programme through cuts in government expenditure. And to be clear, I'm not talking about dismissals of civil servants. I have here an OSCE graph, which shows the expected GDP growth, since government spending is reduced. I think it is easy to guess who the country will be on the planet, which will benefit most from the adoption of some advice. Of course it's Greece. And today, after the opening of the office of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, his vacation trip for internal consumption with the money of the Greek people in Cuba for the ever-lasting victory of the people, I don't think there is any need for further evidence. I put it in the Minutes that there is no doubt about it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A third thing that the government could do is build an effective state that would encourage and not discourage healthy entrepreneurship. The question is how easy it is for Greece to open up a business to come to the bill too. Unfortunately, the answer is that it is not easy at all. Our country is in the sixty - ninety - ninety - nineteen first place since last year’s fifty - eighth place, according to the World Bank’s ranking, as to its convenience. And the worst thing is that with the exception of Turkey, all the neighbouring countries are in a much higher position than our country, namely Albania and Bulgaria and Italy, and even Skopje. In particular, Bulgaria is in the thirty-nineth place, Italy in the fiftieth, Albania in the fifty-eighth and Skopje in the tenth place. So, what is the basic principle that is trying to keep any country that wishes to facilitate entrepreneurship and, in particular, healthy entrepreneurship? That the State only allows the economic activity to be limited to the extent necessary to prevent the risk to the public interest rather than to the greater. On this liberal admission, the introduction of the simple licensing system was based on a responsible statement of the businesses of L. 4262/2014, which, I would remind you, follows consistently the case law of the Council of State. But there is also a second assumption of this bill. The horizontal treatment of the licensing of undertakings. Mr Hatzidakis mentioned this. The logic was to lay down clear rules that abolish the case-by-case treatment of investors' requests and introduce general operating conditions, standards and specifications for each activity. In these standards, he should adapt, who is interested in engaging in business, without derogations, but also with no possibility of misinterpretation on the part of the administration. And of course, the benefit is clear. It was the use of these standards, to improve the speed of licensing and, above all, to help the transparency of controls. Checks, which - I remind you - were transferred from the licensing stage to the operating stage. Thus, the investor or businessman was not troubled by a number of endless and theoretical checks in advance, often on the basis of possibly public administration speculation and with delays that we have seen many times even in the courts. The same logic was hidden behind the idea of certification, an idea which should also, Minister, be explained to us why it is abolished. So what did Mr.4262 do? First, it enabled the businessman to choose whether he wants to be licensed either by the public or by a private body. This alternative, of course, was given, after the State had overseeed any private body. And of course, this patent wasn't a patent of the New Democracy and PASOK government, nor any of our inventions. It was a practice used worldwide. And I ask you: Beyond the idea that the private sector cannot carry out control tasks, do you, Minister, have any negative experience you can invoke to justify abandoning this mechanism? You'll also allow me a special reference to the articles in the bill. First of all, I welcome the withdrawal from Mr. Minister's point of view of Article 56, because I imagine he understood the mistake that this eliminates the criminal offence of a number of offences for those who carried out directors, presidents or board members of ECOMMEX SA's subsidiaries, even - look - before 1 January 2010. However, the problem still remains - and it is important for the Minister to reply in his dentistry, if he wants to take the floor - why this provision has been in place from the outset. Who put her in for what? I think that there was no reason why you submitted to us. We'd like you to explain where the mistake was. At the beginning or right now? Article 50, paragraphs 11 and 12: In accordance with Article 50, paragraph 2 of Article 13 of Law No 4202/2014 is amended and the authorisation may be granted even without the imposition of a fine. We are afraid, Minister, that this will legitimise an unspecified number of storage and distribution centres, without paying a fine, even if this has been imposed. And under paragraph 12 of that article, with regard to horizontal conditions for the construction of business logistics parks, a Presidential Decree is no longer required. In this way, Minister, construction conditions are laid down which will not pass through the control of the Council of State. That is something that concerns us and raises us reasonable questions. We hope you do not call specific, through these two provisions. However, if you do not understand that, in the way that has been done for both paragraphs, you are going through the image of opaqueness and, if necessary, the coverage of personal interests. I hope that's not the intention in terms of the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy has lost two precious years waiting for SYRIZA, among other things, to present its own way to simplify the licensing of businesses. After freezing the process of implementing Law 4262 for two years, it is putting a legislative initiative to facilitate the operation of the House, in accordance with the urgency procedure. And obviously, this is not the urgent need of the Greek society and the economy. Because if you were interested you would not let the country lose immediate wealth in 2015-2016, around 21 billion and indirectly another 60 billion, as all our European partners have said. That is why no matter how good the interlocutor is, he cannot observe that the two more years the government gives itself in order to make today's draft law operational is absurd, it is too long. We are talking about a total loss of four years, where the Greek economy, in the state it is, simply cannot withstand. You, of course, have a different view of the development of 2017 and, indeed, you also call for information from the Commission. It would, however, be more politically honest not to invoke it when it suits you, namely not to make an invoicing card for the European Commission. Because if you remember, Minister, in 2014 the Commission predicted a growth of 2.9% in 2015 and instead we had a recession. The same is true, of course, for 2016 too. Unfortunately, then, to paraphrase the great Greek Prime Minister Charilaos Trikoupis, "our blooming SYRIZA". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of the entrepreneurial environment and the recovery of competitiveness, I think, should be the centre of any institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity. This has also been a central idea of the New Democracy framework law, L 4262/2014. As Mr Hatzidakis said a moment ago, until December 2014 with two ministerial decisions, the procedures had been simplified to a hundred three activities and eight hundred ninety-seven professions. Then came SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras, a government that unfortunately frozen the whole process for two years. Today it comes and presents us with a clipboard, it is the truth, as our rapporteur, Mrs Bakoyannis, said, is a bill. It's to wonder. Is that how the long-term investment is going to come to our country? It's a bill that doesn't stand on whatever positive New Democracy's previous law, but it wants to build something from the start. You will allow me to say that this is the first problem that we find in this bill, as in other government bills, how the present government understands the logic of continuity. In a modern European state, as we want to believe that we are, the concept of continuity is an essential component of all serious public administration, but unfortunately this is the path of the Greek political system, each new government depreciating and canceling all the legislative efforts of the previous governments. This ideological refusal must admit that it is only damage at the end of the day. It is good to build the successful one on something, especially on the specific bill, because the objective I believe is one, to attract foreign and domestic investment. A characteristic of this is Article 14 for the creation and operation of an integrated information system for the exercise of activities and controls. What's the government doing here? He chooses to create a bureaucratic, a dazzling new information system instead of building on GEMI's successful model. But that is not the only problem in the bill. The second has to do with the overall problem of the government. The essential difference of the law we are discussing today with the law of Kostis Hatzidakis is the way in which economic activity is perceived. On the one hand, we have the Law 4262 which accepted, in practice, the freedom to carry out economic activities, a law limiting the functioning of the State. On the other hand, we have your own draft law, the basic principle of which is that no economic activity can be carried out free of charge without being subject to an authorisation regime. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our basic ideological difference. You are going to build a framework, but unfortunately your ideological strangles do not allow you to take the next step. Finally, I would like to refer to Rule 50, because this article makes an effort by the Government to regulate logistics, namely the operation of storage and distribution centres. We all know that logistics and combined transport are a sector, as the Minister yesterday admitted to the committee, which is of great importance and perspective. That is why the "COSCO" came in 2008 to the port of Piraeus. That is why we also see that the privatisation of the 'TRAINOSE' has gone ahead. However, under the provision of paragraph 12, Mr Minister, you define construction conditions and a Presidential Decree is not required. We note that if this Presidential Decree has not been issued, obviously there is no possibility of issuing such licences. Therefore, the adoption of this draft law will begin to grant outstanding permits. However, with this indirect, but entirely - you will allow me to say - photographically, you are ultimately legalising storage and distribution centres without paying the fines, if any, if they have been imposed on them. Mr President, we have said this and will not be tired of repeating it: the government is running a two-year delay. It takes her two years to do what we consider to be self-evident. And. Unfortunately, he comes in and does so in a lack of and in a way that is wrong. After all, we have seen it in other legislative initiatives too, and we have seen it last week with the office bill, unfortunately, today. The Greek people, however, do not have the luxury of losing any more time. We've already lost two years with your backing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, George Stylus, from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the neoliberal government yesterday brought in the House a number of provisions to remove regulatory barriers to competition, the OECD toolbox, in short the rope to hang ourselves. Today, the neoliberal government, under the pressure of lenders, unable to resist their appetites, brings the bill for economic activity to a vote without substantial consultation and dialogue with society and productive institutions. This, ladies and gentlemen, was the opposition speech, the wording of the SYRIZA - ANEL during the opposition. Today, they come to support and vote for what they denounced yesterday. You defend them as government. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the New Democracy voted for n.4262, which had the seal of the World Bank that has done corresponding jobs in several other countries. He also had the seal of the European Commission, which he considered to be an innovative approach, had the seal and confidence of almost all of our home business community. Law 4262/2014 did not become improvising, but based on best international practices. Practices of countries such as Austria, France, Great Britain, Denmark, Poland, Australia and a number of other countries have been developed. So the question arises: Why should we every time rediscover the wheel? Can we not use the best practices in other countries, amend them and implement them in our country? So that law, passed by the New Democracy Government - Law 4262/2014 - was a horizontal intervention that laid the foundations for a large-scale reform. It covered almost all economic activity. On the other hand, with today's bill, the scope is limited to certain activities. By the 2014 Act, the checks had been postponed from the licensing stage to the operating stage, on the basis of specific standards, which were then established in advance so that everyone knew what the rules of the game are. In this bill we are discussing, the idea of entrusting the certification to private entities certified by the ESRB is abandoned, and only the optional assistance of private bodies for the audit procedure is provided. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately after the 2015 elections the SYRIZA - ANEL Government did not proceed with the implementation of Law 4262/2014, nor further simplification of licensing procedures. He made announcements that he'd bring something innovative, something essential. And two years have passed by with impediments, delays and this bill has come which, in our opinion, is unclear and has many problems. With today's bill you are renamed the information system, which was also provided for in that law, and we are going to go to a new information system where business permits will be granted, which - deserves observation and labelling - is not yet ready to work. So we only do one rename without having made any real implementation. The transitional phase of the law is set until 31-12-2018. In other words, we have a total loss of four years until the simplification, licensing procedures are implemented, when the main problems affecting the country are bureaucracy and unemployment. At a time when we should run, we let time flow as if we had that margin. Ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, Article 4(2) states: ‘The placing on the market and operation of certain economic activities under the scheme of this law shall not relieve the person concerned of the obligation to comply with the applicable provisions governing the activity’. This wording leads to the interpretation that the procedures for simplifying the authorisation are not introduced. On the contrary, another further procedure is being introduced. And all this at a time when we have to send a message that Greece must become an open country to entrepreneurship, investment-friendly, which is a precondition for recovery that will come from specific policies. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is trying to implement a policy which does not believe it, and from its guilt it ends up doing nothing at all. The country is dragging, we lose valuable national and political capital in meaningless battles of a communication nature. The economy is falling, the money in the chest is ending, the taxes are increasing, our competitiveness is falling on the international scale and citizens are becoming poorer and waiting for the worst. Day after day the deadlocks are multiplying. It's just a matter of time. The moment will come when the New Democracy will be called to collect the debris with wisdom, measure and responsibility. You know that, as the Greek people know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Koukodemos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u130	My colleague was yelling, Mr. Stylus, and he woke us up. Be well. We're up. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another bill with the urgency procedure, another bill that has to go through in summary procedures as the evaluation must be closed. In the light of the explanatory statement, we must make some points, because the Ministry is trying to convince that, for the first time, legislative intervention is being attempted to simplify procedures and facilitate businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 with L.4262, New Democracy brought the law for the first time on simplifying the process of licensing companies with specific categories of economic activity. The application of this law has never been done. On the contrary, it has been frozen for two whole years, to come today, under the well-known urgency procedure, to vote on a rough bill one day. Most of the points in the bill have been analysed, and I don't want to tire with repetitions. However, I must make a few specific references to the issue of tourist accommodation. The Government shall abolish the special operating mark of the tourist accommodation. We recall that L.4276/2014 simplified the procedure for granting a special operating brand for tourist accommodation, but at the same time also placed safeguards to protect legitimate businessmen from illegal tourist accommodation. In this bill, there is no such protection framework. Ladies and gentlemen, in my constituency we have a very large number of small tourist accommodations, small hotels and businesses, rented rooms and apartments. The real anxiety for small tourist enterprises is another is whether they will respond to the increased demands of the state that indicated its hardness, moving towards an increase in VAT, but also to the imposition of an overnight fee. Furthermore, the rooms were found against HICP since the Government abolished the provisions for their inclusion in the special buildings and at the reduced rate of taxation for HICP. Let me also mention that the vast majority of these enterprises, small and medium-sized tourist enterprises, from the ESDP programme to modernise and upgrade their services, has been excluded, since the conditions laid down in practice have closed the door to integration. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is not a reform, it is a desperate attempt by the government to close another open front to the negotiation. It is planned and on many points it has considerable ambiguity, as in Article 12 where there are general references to control and supervision, for example in the process of autopsy. One last point I want to stand down, is in Chapter G, Article 33. The archaeologists' association, on the bill being passed, hits the alarm. There is a letter to the Members of Parliament with many points and necessary, in their view, legislative improvements. I would like to mention just one point and raise the concern it raises. It writes, among other things, the letter: "As unheard of and unthinkable as it may be, the hard to understand how it is, the provisions of the law under discussion make Greece an uncontrolled field in terms of archaeological control and protection of cultural heritage". He writes: "If its provisions were already applied, many of the monuments that the intensive archaeological research of the last decades in Macedonia would not decorate our museums or be objects of dissertation and scientific writings. They would have been destroyed in secret, and some of them would have been illegally moved to private elections." In fact, we are asked to feel the historical and the importance of our choice to prevent the ending, in essence, of the protection of cultural heritage on Greek territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end with this point. We must not be forced by the urgent procedure to pass laws, with consequences that we are not in a position to assess today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u131	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Fotini Vakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which introduces an important reform in the context of the exercise of economic activity, and we should first of all recognise that this intervention can improve the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important to stress that the new institutional framework introduced, in particular through the notification practice for the start-up of businesses, significantly reduce administrative burdens and bureaucracy, which in most cases made it impossible to carry out economic activity, particularly for small and very small economic players. The change in the administrative philosophy introduced by this bill favours freedom of economic activity, opens the market to many players and restricts certain established restrictive practices, which in many sectors had led to the creation of closed oligopolises, thus affecting the backbone of the country's economy, namely, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This bill makes it possible to create a business even by e-mail. This section is of particular importance to small businesses, to micro-enterprises, which will not be able to bear the huge administrative burdens of today's licensing, nor would they, of course, have the means and resources to respond to the multi-level administrative obstacles that exist in many sectors today. So, in this logic, this bill is a progressive bill, which favours very small, small economic players and lays the foundations for what we are all talking about, namely the reconstruction of the real economy. With the full implementation of this draft law, administrative practice is radically changing and a vital place is left for the implementation of new ideas, new practices for the promotion of new services in a market, which today is suffocating from the strangles and rigidities of the existing institutional framework. The main element of this draft law therefore relates to the procedure for notification. This procedure, which is no other than the obligation to simply notify the competent authority of the commencement of a given economic activity, replaces the multi-fashioned administrative authorisation procedures, as we have known until now. The natural person or company wishing to carry out an economic activity may notify it by an e-mail and then proceed without any additional administrative burden in the exercise of that activity. The implementation of this administrative practice can improve the position of small enterprises in a competitive economic environment. Nonetheless, the question arises from some is reasonable: can this notification procedure lead to a loss of public control of the market and to a guarantee of the protection of citizens or consumers? Can the new framework lead to a deterioration in the quality of services or products offered? The answer I think is clear and gives it the institutional framework we are discussing today. No check-out. Security controls are not abolished in relation to the protection of the public interest. What is really happening is to define a stable framework within which a person can operate business, that is to say, to shift the peak of control from the pre-control of the business activity to the control during the business activity. In other words, the audit practice and the audit of countless supporting documents and at the outset the audit will concern the actual operation of the company in progress. The real economy can benefit substantially from the implementation of this framework. I could refer to many examples of activity, as described in the bill. To shorten the procedures for the licensing of tourist enterprises, for example, the substantial reduction in bureaucracy for the establishment of health stores, the simplification of procedures for licensing activities in many sectors of primary production are key arrangements for the reconstruction of these economic sectors, but also for the practical support of the real economy and small and medium-sized enterprises. It should also be stressed that, in addition to the time, this framework reduces and the financial burdens, the costs for natural or legal persons wishing to pursue an economic activity. This reduction in the cost of licensing, which is achieved by simplifying procedures, encourages the creation of small enterprises. In the fight against suffocation in the real economy, but also unemployment, this framework can indeed be an important development tool. With this draft law, it is attempting to give a new impetus to entrepreneurship, which will help revitalise the real economy. It is essentially a draft law that can work forwardly and secure jobs, contributing to the strengthening of the strategic advantages of the Greek economy. It leaves room for innovation, for exploiting what we all invoke, the quality of the human capital of this country. Obviously this bill does not solve all the problems of the economy by magic, but it is an important variable in the development equation. The successful and rapid implementation of this framework can make a significant contribution to improving the growth rate of the economy and reducing unemployment. And these objectives are vital to the real economy and we should support them with all our means. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to some of the current developments, which we have also heard from some opposition colleagues. As far as the course of discussions on the Greek economy is concerned, our aim is clear. It is clear about the immediate completion of the assessment and the positive conclusion of the debt debate. The government has defined the framework within which it is moving and that is now clear to everyone. No divergence from the European acquis on labour matters and no debate on new measures. We are seeking as much a solution as possible to the debt issue as possible and a clear corridor to get out of the market. At the same time, we also want to strengthen the growth potential of the Greek economy and to stabilise the positive performance of the last space in a sustainable way. The debates, therefore, in relation to the progress of the economy, should focus on these issues and not, colleagues, on extreme objections or catastrophic considerations. Any attempt to implement policies that deviate from the European acquis or from extreme austerity measures cannot be accepted. But in all this negotiation process, in which almost all the parties involved have submitted their views internationally, we have not been sufficiently aware of the positions of certain parties, and particularly of the Civilian Opposition, on critical questions. Does it, for example, agree with the abolition of all forms of institutional labour protection? Does he agree with the release of team redundancies? Does he agree with the abolition of even their minimum control by any authority? We have heard your views on the collective negotiations, ladies and gentlemen. Clear and clear the target. It's their complete abolition, isn't it? We have also heard your views on how you understand the exercise of the employer's right, on the occasion of the debate on the undoubted redundancies of private teachers. The ideological framework and the political proposition of Officerial Opposition fits perfectly with their most neoliberal practices and enthusiasts worldwide. These are the reforms that they promise within and outside the country, a neoliberal agenda, which is known to everyone and which, when applied here a few years ago, led to thousands of collective redundancies both from the private and public sectors. We will continue to fight to overthrow these extreme neoliberal policies both within the country and at the level of the European Union itself. The recipes you propose lead to deregulation of work, deregulation, elasticisation of labour relations and ultimately unemployment at 28%, which you delivered to us in 2015. The extreme premium for the management right you are supporting, the promise of tax evasion only for the rich and your commitment to dismantle the social state, obviously making you privileged interlocutors of those who wish never to finish the memorials in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, because there has been a lot of talk - although I did not intend to talk about it - let me close my speech today with a reference to a historical personality of the international movement, Fidel Castro, who have smuggled you as a dictator and a populist. For, of course, it is a populist to you that anyone who puts a stop to the exploitation of human beings and anyone who puts impoverishment on what benefits human dignity, defending education, health and the social state, trying to salvage what is left. Fidel Castro, but anti-populist Fignon, with whom you declare allies claiming the dismissal of half a million civil servants, is asking for allowances cuts, Fignon who creeps around multiculturality and wants a pure French nation of French Catholics. Fidel Castro will remain in history forever a great visionary and revolutionary, proud of an entire people, a people who may have been poor, but who has made him rich in values: in education, in health, in visions. Castro's struggle for the emancipation of Latin America and the Third world from political and economic oppression will forever remain engraved, not only in the history of the world movement, but also in our hearts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Theocharis, an independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed this week and we are still discussing two draft laws, which did not come under normal procedures as usual. You have introduced them in urgent and urgent procedures to close the evaluation. At the same time you let it be understood that you will lead the country to elections, because you are not finding it with the partners. It's a lie and an insanity. I understand that you are doing so to give your Members an alibi to vote. But you don't have to. They'll vote for it. You were once against the system that bankrupt us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u135	What did you say we were going to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u136	You, Mr. Papadopoulos, will vote with two hands. Now you are serving this system. Your Members do the same. So don't be afraid. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Whatever they ask you to do in the workplace, in the insurance, in the extra measures of the International Monetary Fund, your Members will vote on them. In fact, you are now completing your mutation. You started it last year, when you became the "yes", at the same time as in the squares you were propagandaing for "no". You are the party of 'yes'. This year you became his institution "vote whatever it is". Whatever it is! Rating at all costs! You are his party "vote whatever it is". We read it in Maximo's papers: "The New Democracy wants elections and will be catastrophic and will lead to a fourth memorandum". So? The elections must therefore be avoided at all costs. So we'll agree at all costs. So you'll vote for what you're asked for. Because you want this deal at all costs. It is, of course, a shift in realism, a shift in responsibility. The problem, however, is that this turn is wrong, because you serve a system that went bankrupt. The offices in Thessaloniki and the salary of EUR 2,500, the recruitment of the next, the arrangements, with the last of Mr Milios, the posters, the new recruitments that lead to increases in public wages, the compromise with corruption, the creation of new jacks through the Bank of Attica, the attempt - and half-successful - to manipulate SMEs, is not the break with the old one you are evangelizing. It's his last retardation and support battle. He promised us yesterday, in fact, Mr Tsakalotos and a reduction in taxes since 2018. The crowns for the redistribution have been forgotten for the rich who should support the weak. Soon you will also cost us a priced proposal to reduce HISBIA by 30%. There is already ready for the New Democracy. Why don't you take her? Take the proposal to reduce HPAI 30% - costed - and implement it. bankruptcy leads mathematically to destruction. You only earn time by confiscations to serve this distorting system. Every day twenty thousand of our fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, see money seized from their tax bills. The money in the mattresses is repaid to make up for the gap. So the 20 billion we had in the mattresses in 2015 became 15 billion this year. When we get to 5 billion, the economy will dry and that will be a catalyst for the political system. Then you'll pay the cost. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill highlighting our decline. I wonder why we want a memorandum and an assessment to reduce bureaucracy in permits. I wonder why the jobs in the country of one million unemployed are not enough motivation. I wonder why the lack of staff in the services they do not have time to grant permissions is not capable of bringing us this bill alone. I wonder why we do not decide that the municipal councils should not set each leave for each restaurant, but that they should make general rules and services do so. It's not a political question to open a restaurant. Do you know what irony is, ladies and gentlemen? The irony is that this bill we are discussing today is more important than the debt, which you have raised as the number one issue for investment. As is most important how you treat investors from Qatar, at 'SOCAR', with which we will see what happens today - tomorrow and if this investment goes away. So it's more important that this bill, the coward, the late, the clipboard, the confused one. This bill is more important to investment. Why, what investors want, we know. What they always want is firstly political stability. We don't have it, ladies and gentlemen. They want, secondly, rapid and effective administration of justice, as well as impartial. We don't have it, ladies and gentlemen. They want, thirdly, stable legal and regulatory environments. We don't have it, ladies and gentlemen. They want, fourthly, reduced bureaucracy. Today we are only discussing some cowardly steps. They want, fifthly, a lack of corruption. We don't have it, ladies and gentlemen. They want, sixth, reduced taxes and costs. We are moving in the reverse direction, ladies and gentlemen. They want, seventh, a lack of economic surprises. And the high debt, indeed, can lead to such surprises, Grexit or bankruptcy of the country. Only concern yourself with this because that is what concerns you politically and mainly communications. The previous six are none of your business. Today, however, we are talking about something more important than debt. But why are we talking about only three branches instead of all? Why do you institutionalize a new information system instead of using GAM? Why are you establishing new systems in the hope of fully operating in two years, while we need the results immediately? Why are we creating new legal problems in relation to the statements and the appeal procedure? Why so sloppy, especially on the subject of acoustic nuisance? Take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the question of controls, because shortcomings in the staffing of the control mechanisms make this a difficult task. On the issue of noise nuisance, we must finally introduce some objective criteria, the measurement of decibels against the shop after hours, and we must go very quickly and to ban the operation of the shop, fine, and close for some days and then lift the license. Finally understand that operational implementation shows challenges that are never reflected in the paper. And unfortunately your performance in this area cannot be reassuring for the success of the operation presented to us by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I have begun to fail to see what you differ from New Democracy and the PASOK. The same promises, the same goes for you. The Greek people see the same way. You accepted the role of servant of a system that brought us here. You pay the price, for other things you said as opposition and others do as government. Unfortunately this price is paid by the country and it is very expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I fear that the SYRIZA Government has acquired the habit of bringing very important legislation that is of interest to the market and the real economy. After this has become a custom, it once again brings a bill without suspensions, and so this habit tends to become an anti-parliamentary behaviour, a rule that is inconsistent with the parliamentary history of this Chamber. You know, I'm saying this because you knew the prerequisites, Minister. You, however, are now literally running to nothing but five to bring two very important bills, to discuss the National Representation, to table proposals, to submit objections, to put forward ideas that you might not have made through your improvisation. Is the only thing you're interested in is your stay in the government, in the government's thugs, and nothing else? It seems that you have neglected your ideology, you have forgotten it, and you have acquired an arrogant behavior with the sole purpose of staying as much time as possible in power. And don't remember what you were saying about the OECD toolbox when New Democracy was talking about and trying to find a common channel of communication with you. You remember them, Mrs Bakoyannis mentioned them in her initial suggestion. And in order not to forget, part of this toolbox was voted yesterday. There has also been a debate in the committee and here. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to actually land and leave Cuba - which many colleagues from the government majority have discussed here - the Greek reality is unrelenting in terms of 'conflicts' from the SYRIZA - ANEL policy. It is inconsistent because it did not adopt important legislation of the New Democracy when the framework law to simplify the process of economic activity was established in 2014, No 4262/2014. By December 2014 ministerial decisions were issued by the Minister of Development, which simplified procedures for the authorisation of three activities and eight hundred ninety-seven professions. Since then what have you done, Minister, gentlemen of the government? An absolute nothing. You have not made any progress, although there was an institutional framework. And that's why? Why do you not believe in strengthening entrepreneurship and you are committed to a concept that belongs to the past. You have tabled a bill restricting the simplification of authorisation procedures for economic activity and limited to food, health stores and tourist accommodation. And the SYRIZA Government - ANEL all he knows to do is prevent and hinder reforms. Nothing else. That's what we saw today. And you know why? You have claimed, Minister, in your suggestion that the bill you bring simplifies the process of economic activity. In reality, however, it imposes new restrictions because it is not possible to carry out an economic activity if it is not part of a notification or approval regime. On the contrary, the bill brought in 2014 by the New Democracy - and it did not, in the final analysis, have been implemented in its full order - ensured full freedom of economic activity, contrary to the bill you tabled, which, even if it was voted on today, will be inactive. And you know - as all my fellow Members know - why it will be inactive. Why, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, the electronic system is not ready through which business will be authorised. And also, secondly, to enable it, it is necessary to adopt ministerial decisions, presidential decrees, regulations, for the adoption of which there is a great deal of time for the adoption by 31 December 2018. Until then what's going to happen? Let us assume that we agree to abolish the specific operating mark of tourist accommodation. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not have a single framework for the outcome of checks on illegal tourist accommodation, and there are still no infrastructure to operate the Integrated Information System for Authorisation and Control. The checks, you tell us, will be sampling on the basis of a risk assessment of economic activity. In Article 12, however, there is a general reference to supervisory and control procedures without a clear framework. If you really would like to take a substantial step forward, you could institutionalise the possibility of a sample check by private accredited bodies, in accordance with international standards and European standards, in order to remove the administrative burden from public services, as our own law had foreseen. The Government, however, has natural or legal persons to assist in the inspection procedures, which will only be certified by a decision of the Minister for Development. If that's possible! Why don't you give specific bodies such as the SETE or other private bodies that have international standards? We have European standards. On the subject of simplification of environmental licensing procedures, we have a few comments to make. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you for one more minute's understanding. What are the improvements you make to the bill and in this context? The only substantial improvement sought today and to be pursued by all the corners of the National Representation is the reduction of licensing time, because also the adoption of environmental conditions create problems and delays in the exercise of economic and investment activity and tourism in particular. The bill brought by the government promises to start an operation within 30 days, but this cannot be done for large tourist investments - you know that, Minister - for which environmental category A1 and A2 conditions are needed. This is still a time-consuming process. It is estimated that the average environmental approval of category A1 for a large tourist investment is 12 to eighteen months, while for category A2 it takes 10 months. How important it is for environmental conditions to be adopted, we do not need to point out anything else. The first of the approvals and authorisations required to issue the remaining ones is necessary. And yet, this bill does not deal with this pathogen. The paradox is that the wrapping with which the government accompanied the provisions it brought about in the tourist accommodation is based on the account that it supports small family enterprises in the tourism sector on the one hand, and on the other, that it facilitates economic activity. The second is that this is not the case. I mentioned it in my position too, and other colleagues have mentioned it in other ways. As far as the first - and it is worth pointing out - is concerned, Minister, on the occasion of your reference and of the fact that all the NRP's money has been assimilated to the South and North Aegean regions, I would remind you that you have moved on to an increase in VAT, but also to the imposition of the night's fee. In addition, Minister, you have abolished the provisions for the inclusion of room rentals in special buildings and the reduced rate of taxation for HICP, burdening tourist enterprises too much. At the same time, you excluded with "photographic" provisions 80% of the rented rooms and apartments from the NSRF funding programme to assist tourist-media enterprises in modernising and upgrading services. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you do not believe either in facilitating economic and business activity or in changes and reforms. Two years ago perhaps some of the government majority could mislead some of our fellow citizens, but today you cannot mislead anyone. What the country needs is a reboot at all levels and I think that there is a need for political change. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three teachers from the Gymnasium Vlachoti Laconia. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a new institutional framework for economic activity and other provisions. This is the draft law we are debating today and that deals with a new institutional framework for economic activities, aimed at simplifying procedures. He aspires to face one of the leading business blocking factors in our country. But is that right? Is that so if we look at the big picture? Because in the big picture the legislator should always include those for whom he legislates. The legislator must go beyond the theoretical objective and answer how, at what time and at what cost. In other words, the question is: Whether a new law will be practically practicable and effective? But good intentions are no longer enough on their own. The country's economic environment requires tangible results and concrete solutions. Therefore, in this draft law, which publishes the simplification of procedures for the exercise of economic activity, we should also consider to what extent it achieves it, but also within what time. Let us, for example, take paragraph 2 of Article 4 and give it the basis. I read: ‘The placing on the market and operation of a certain economic activity under this Law shall not exempt the person concerned from the obligation to comply with the applicable provisions governing other activities. In the event of infringement of those provisions, the penalties provided for in the relevant provisions shall be imposed.’; Let us focus on two key phrases: 'The person concerned must comply with the provisions in force'. Who are these? Also, what are ‘the penalties provided for in the relevant provisions in the event of infringement’? In this wording, the citizen, the entrepreneur concerned, who wants to engage in economic activity inevitably feels himself trapped in a world of existing and relevant provisions without a name, without a start, without end. The result? The involuntary or voluntary violation of him. The fragmentation in the formulation of the device and the concealed plurality create a caffician environment. Unfortunately, we are seeing dozens of similar references to laws, regulations, previous decisions, which are either amended or repealed. In addition, this draft law provides for and refers to some twenty-fifths of ministerial decisions or regulations for its implementation. I should like to point out here that it is unacceptable that there should be no clear and comprehensive text in our hands so that there is a direct comparison with the new text in the standards, for example, of the European Parliament. Good practices should be adopted, so that we can move away from the range of polynomialism and the 'European legislature'. It's about time, we can do it. It is not simple, but it will also help and simplify our lives and the rightness of choices during the production of legislation, but above all it will facilitate the lives of Greek citizens. Our proposal for a final text, which will incorporate all the necessary regulations, so that the citizen concerned knows what to do, so that he does not sell into endless texts that one refers to another, we think it is a top project and it would be good to adopt it all. It is an opportunity in your government, Minister, to begin this vision of the eunuch. The codification of legislation is now as necessary as ever, because today the bill we are discussing, if it is not codified, is not read by the citizen and in the circumstances in which we are a dysfunctional and anachronistic public, in conjunction with a poorly formulated legislation, constitute an explosive mixture. We should be careful. The new structures of e-government, when they are free to prepare or overlap with other, pre-existing, electronic structures, are not panacea for all issues, but instead create a new originality, electronic bureaucracy. Article 14, which establishes the Integrated Information System for Activity and Control, at a time when the General Commercial Register, GEMI, is already in place, creates this very problem. The main issue is interoperability. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is, unfortunately, one of the highest positions in the world in matters of pluralism. This is a legislative jungle literally, a genuinely huge legislative production in the last few decades which ultimately has a dissolutionary effect on society, public administration and, of course, on the functioning of democracy. Judicial power itself fails to manage, let alone apply the thousands of provisions that apply simultaneously to an issue. On the other hand, everyone knows that thousands of laws in force do not apply. It must be understood that pluralism leads to maliciousness and that it in turn leads to lawlessness. It is worth mentioning, for example, the tax legislation of two republics, the American and Greek. In the United States since 1766, which has been declared American independence, until now, they have been voted and applied - take note - only ten tax laws in the centuries. On the contrary, in our country from 1975 to today at least two hundred and fifty tax legislation were passed with infinite amendments scattered in various other laws, which I imagine are in no position today to collect all of this. The overproduction of laws, most of which also include photo-type devices - ruffles - is a norm for almost all issues to be regulated. Altogether, nearly four and a half thousand laws have been adopted, that is, over a hundred per year. So a law, every three to four days. In this context, if so-called secondary law is calculated, i.e. ministerial decisions, presidential decrees, etc., then the number is being launched at an undetermined level. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, a large number of laws are a monument of curiosity. In addition, most have a large number of camera-type devices as a result of opaque procedures and transactions between civil servants and specific, where appropriate, guilds, influence groups and even individuals. And this is a timeless, unfortunately, passionate place and it is a common place that this situation is an ideal ground for endemic corruption and arbitraryness. However, this is how basic rules which characterise favoured states, but also the rule of law, are being dismantled. Ladies and gentlemen, in the practice of the birth of the modern Greek state, unfortunately, the creation of the state machine was mainly intended to be a tool for client relations with the executive, despite what it should be, that is, the mechanism for serving the citizens. So we have come to have an administration that does what it can to sustain itself, losing its aim of serving the citizen. Such legislation, such as today, is an opportunity to redefinite the relationship between the political system and a state and a citizen. Even if this bill is a prerequisite for evaluation and not a product of our own will, let us be aware of the absolute priority of redefining these relations, namely, relations between the political system and a state - and above all, executive power and state - and a state and citizen. Without this redefinition, we cannot seriously discuss the existence of conditions, among other things, of growth, of real interest in business activities, which will lead - and it is the only condition to lead - to the production of national wealth and jobs, which more than anything else currently needs the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to start with something seemingly irrelevant to today's bill, but it is of great importance, because I have heard you trying to convince us that you have protected islandity with the absorption rate of 100% of the NRP in the regions of North and South Aegean, and you have also identified the amount of EUR 6 million for each region. Of course, the financial tools are good, and the programmes are good, Minister, but you know that islands have been affected by the abolition of the low VAT rate on the Greek islands. Whether this increase in VAT is absorbed by companies, which will mean a large reduction in their profits, or consumption, which will mean lowering their competitiveness, when VAT on the opposite coast is at 10%. With 24% VAT on our islands, no island status has been protected and I must remind you that it was a'red' line, it was one of the promises through which you deceived the electorate in January 2015. From there on, Minister, you are conflicting with reality today. While the SYRIZA - ANEL Government votes yesterday to facilitate the setting-up of businesses, and today it votes for the World Bank's advice to facilitate economic activity, the Prime Minister sells leftlessness from far-off Cuba, and just before, as we read, from Plaza de la Revolucion, he said, it is an example of Castro. What example? As an economic model? Example of human rights? For what exactly, we cannot understand, we cannot understand. In this conflict with reality, you will be defeated. You will be defeated politically, you will be defeated ideologically and you will also be defeated electorally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. To discuss in the Greek Parliament the new institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity, while the SYRIZA Government is oriented firmly and fanatically on Latin American models, it sounds like political irony, I would say. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms have one feature: in order to render them you must believe them, they must not be forced. If the state does not believe in the reforms it brings to Parliament, they will never pay off. When the environment in civilian staff and in the economy is backward, any reform is literally drowning. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, Minister, has shown in the past two years that it is a regression force. Can I tell you a current statistic? Today the bill, which is supposed to bring changes and facilitate economic activity, Minister, all six SYRIZA Members came to support it from the hundreds of forty-five, while the registered MPs from New Democracy are twelve to seventy-five. You don't believe in reforms. You are a deregulation force and not a reform! As for the rapporteur's excuse, the excellent excuse that creditors, the institutions, did not allow the bill to come, to convince anyone, and above all proves that the SYRIZA Government is a government that has ceased to govern and simply execute orders, because it is impossible for creditors to refuse either elements of the OECD toolbox or advice from the World Bank. So you do nothing more in this bill, Minister, than you did in all the previous ones. You are constantly trying to avoid them, to postpone them, but at the end you are voting on them with a puffed head. It is impossible for the government to understand the need for legislation and by extension of the administrative consistency. Mr. Hatzidakis' Law 4262/2014 was welcomed by the market for prosperous and positive comments. For two years, the SYRIZA Government has not adopted a ministerial decision to build on the existing law, improve it and extend it. Administrative continuity, Minister, in particular for economies in crisis and societies in crisis, is a prerequisite for the smooth development of things. You are the uncontinuation and the sloppy legacy. We cannot expect economic activity to be facilitated, when there is uninterrupted, uninterrupted legislation, in the sense that you do not bring the bill here today to facilitate the exercise of economic activity, but simply to close the prerequisites. It is impossible, Minister, to understand what everyone understands. Time is money. Two years lost and two more years lost, because today's bill will be implemented from 1-1-2019. Four years lost to facilitate growth in economic activity. Don't you think that's a lot for a time like this? The positive elements are not going to be rejected by the New Democracy. We are not a power of denial. We are not the power "in everything, not all", as SYRIZA was in the glorious days of his Vice-Policy. We adopt the positive ones. We're highlighting the curiosity. Any facilities relating to either sanitary stores or to tourist accommodation are definitely in agreement with us. From there on, the bill has huge weaknesses. However, whatever facilitation we are voting on today, Minister, any simplification of a company, and if we voted yesterday in this House, all this will be drowned in the wider environment of overtaxation. I told you about the islands before. You have raised the tax rates. You've increased contributions. There's investment apnea in the country. Did you see today what happened in the islands, Mr. Minister, in Mytilini, in Lemnos, in Chios, in Samos? Why are business communities on these islands protesting? Because you abandoned the red line for reduced VAT on the islands, so did the rest of Greece. I can tell you about the islands, because my compatriots tell me how much it hurts their competitiveness both in Skiathos and in Skopelos and in Alonissos what you took back and which you said you would defend. The reduction in exports, the capital controls, the Yunker package, for which we are not listening, and the investment apnea, which I have told you before, is an environment that no matter what you vote on will not pay off. Finally, you appear to be the greatest force to deregulation the real economy. How can you not be a deregulation force, Minister, when you believe in economic models of the Cuban type? These models have no place and space in today's Europe and in the modern world. You're fanatically attached to such models. You will fail, but I am very afraid that with you the Greek economy and the Greek society fails. The only useful service you have to offer is to appeal to the people's verdict and decide on their fate and future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. My colleague, Mrs Panayota Brandza, from SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate my speech on the two most important, in my opinion, of the public administration: bureaucracy and corruption. These are two pathogens, which this draft law is trying to overcome and fight. The red tape is one of the biggest problems for the economic development of our country over time. It is a problem for citizens, businesses, society, and the economy. This is a real obstacle to healthy entrepreneurship, to the development of extroversion and the transparency of the economy, but also to the daily lives of the citizen. As the existing institutional framework for the establishment and operation of Greek enterprises is structured, the issue of a simple licence or certificate is equivalent to mental and physical suffering, with a loss of valuable time and a serious administrative cost for both the private economy, for the private and public services. On the other hand, bureaucracy, which is completely intertwined with the malfunctioning of the state mechanism, maintains and is maintained by corruption, which is, in turn, an insurmountable obstacle to the recovery of the economy and to return to growth. The small and medium-sized Greek enterprises are therefore faced with a great deal of management costs and with a permanent and sometimes catastrophic delay contributing to job losses, the recession in the economy and the further reduction in the standard of living of the citizens. In the difficult economic period that we are experiencing the effort to restore and develop the Greek economy, it requires useful practical and clear interventions to remove bureaucratic obstacles and restore transparency between the public and private sectors. Of course, here I must say that, in both previous legislation and previous governments, efforts were made to simplify the start of businesses, but they were fruitless, either because they had a fragmentary character or because they contained several inappropriate provisions. In this context, the draft law under discussion, which deals with the reform of the framework for economic activities, as well as the draft law adopted yesterday in Parliament, which deals with the "one-stop-stop-stop-stop-shop" as regards the setting-up of enterprises, is a decisive step towards the effective simplification of the procedures required for the exercise of economic activity. It is more than a prerequisite in the second assessment, as contradictory and hypocritical is heard by the headquarters of Anti-Population. It is essentially a prerequisite for the elimination of bureaucracy by simplifying the relevant procedures. It is prerequisite for the elimination of corruption and the ineffectiveness of the institutional framework governing the authorisation of enterprises. It is prerequisite for the recovery and development of the Greek economy itself. It is ultimately a prerequisite for us finally to use common sense in this country. This is a real legislative reform. I would like to say, however, that any piece of legislation of this kind will have a significant obstacle to its implementation pending an integrated spatial planning for the country. This draft law, firstly, covers the processing and related activities of food and beverage, sanitary shops and the operation of tourist accommodation. Other commercial activities will follow after 2018. An activity will take place immediately after it has been notified. The administration will first be required to examine the relevant request for the authorisation within 60 days of the appropriate imposition of the supporting documents by the person concerned. The system is therefore simplified as unnecessary actions are eliminated and the time for the start of a certain economic activity is minimised. A climate of trust and cooperation between the private and public sectors, that is, between the citizen and the state, is therefore established. That is why most of the bodies invited to the committee yesterday saw this legislative initiative as a positive step. What constitutes innovation in the draft law we are discussing today is that it stipulates that someone who starts his operation, informing the relevant body electronically - establishes the integrated information system - can do so by means of the name, address, the type of economic activity and the documents required and the necessary control will be carried out in the process. Here, he needs attention. The required audit shall neither cease nor cease, merely in time shall be carried over, with a view to flexibility and automation of the relevant procedures and to the possibility of submitting an electronic request for the promptest possible and uninterrupted start of the business. On the substance, what we are abolishing is the hostage stage for small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly which often requires litres. However, the beginning will be followed by a certain control, which will, first, be based on the public interest, secondly, on specific risk criteria relating to public health, the environment and the safety of workers and thirdly, on the basis of the specific characteristics of each industry. Sampling will also take place in the context of on-the-spot autopsy with recommendations, as well as in the provision of compliance guidelines for the assessment of the risk of economic activity. Therefore, the necessary supervisory role of the state that we are determined to do and to maintain, and in no case strengthen, is weakened. What is weakened by this draft law is bureaucracy, corruption and inefficiency of outdated procedures and administrative practices. On the contrary, we are strengthening transparency, time and resources savings and the possibility of developing the small and medium-sized Greek business. We are strengthening the development of the national economy and restoring business in our country. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Nikos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. As a JRC, we are not going to accuse the government of fragmentation. Besides, we agree with the Minister's assessment that it is an important bill entered into the broader government planning, a government planning that therefore serves the strategic pursuit of the bourgeois order in our country. Who's that? That is, in every way, to facilitate the activities of capitalist business groups. Facilitating the activities of capitalist business groups means shielding their competitiveness, creating an even more favourable business environment so that through government intervention not only can it be supported, but much more to strengthen capitalist profitability. From this point of view, simplifying the procedures for the exercise of economic capitalist activity is one of the prerequisites for the creation of a more favourable business environment, because it facilitates these groups' action and goes beyond any duplication of control that has existed so far on the part of the urban state. Thus, under this draft law, the audit is carried out in retrospective terms as long as the operation of the operation has begun. It's a potential check. It can be done, it may never happen. It is a sample check, which can be given the exercise of this control by private operators, so there is therefore a privatization of control. So, basically, what does the government accept and could not do differently? It accepts the ex ante reliability of the operator and its investment projects. From this point of view, therefore, there is no need for the huge risks to emerge through this bill, the very important risks to health and safety at the workplace. The incidents are too many in our country, which confirm that the hygiene and protection measures at work are not being complied with, even though the previous regime was in place, and much more today, at the good, discreet mood of the capitalist to apply them at risk to public health, with risks further for the protection of the environment, for the protection of our cultural and architectural heritage. So this data is coming to implement this bill. Of course they are complementary. It is a complement to yesterday's bill, a law now incorporated by the OECD toolbox to facilitate business licensing. In this sense, in other words, the logic of providing all kinds of land and water to facilitate the activities of business interests was yesterday's amendment, the first amendment in the context of the negotiation of the second assessment of labour, which essentially liberalises the activities of private trade unions in general and facilitates this action. In this respect, therefore, this bill, as the Minister himself said, is one of the prerequisites for the second assessment. What will this evaluation result in, Ministers? Mr Tsakalotos said so clearly: 'Our aim is by completing the second assessment to reduce the primary surpluses'. The same purpose has been set by the Governor of the Bank of Greece. What, really, will these primary surpluses be reduced from 2018 onwards to 3.5% or 2%? Mr. Chakalotos was revealing. They will not go what we will save from the reduction of primary surpluses in relief, even those we have condemned in our policy of poverty and impoverishment, but will go to support the same business groups, those who, even at the time of crisis, but much more in the time of recovery, will continue to gain. Those that have not been affected by the crisis, the business groups, through the reduction of their tax rates. Today the OECD report on tax data at the OECD member countries' level on taxation, which was revealing. Two percentage points of the ADP increased the tax burden in 2015 and this increase comes through an increase in indirect taxes and an increase in the taxation of natural persons. On the other hand, legal persons remained at the same rate of charge, which is about 6% of the total tax revenue. That's what legal persons give. Despite this very poor 6%, you are telling them that you will further reduce the tax burden in the context of tax competition. Thus, the result is that even any facility facilitating the management and repayment of the State debt, not only will relieve the people, but is a prerequisite for facilitating the management of the state debt, for the new attack, for the escalation of the anti-Fraud and, at the same time, for this reduction to be even more likely for the State to support through the reduction of taxation or the increase in State expenditure on business groups. So what emerges once again as a result is that the completion of the second assessment will mark an escalation in the anti-Fraud attack, an attack which has no expiry date. It is precisely because the logic of the armoring of competitiveness and capitalist profitability is a time-consuming effort and from this point of view the people and the working class will continue to bleed to maintain capitalist profit and increase it. From this point of view, the second point of view which I would like to note through this debate and the procedure is the controversy that we have seen today between the government and the opposition parties, but which are loyal to the implementation of policies that serve the needs of capital. This controversy, in particular between New Democracy and SYRIZA, is about who will be a better manager of the interests of big capital. In other words, SYRIZA and New Democracy are giving daily examinations to the bourgeoisie and lenders of who can best achieve it in the implementation of anti-popular and anti-government policy. Just because SYRIZA with his policy has proved to be the best learner in implementing this policy, accepting the same strategy as New Democracy, to overcome this impasse New Democracy is taking advantage of any opportunity given to it. You take every opportunity to reflect on this precisely in your strategies, namely, to serve the needs of capital, the implementation of the Euro-mono street, the implementation of imperialist designs. The new chance you were given was Castro's death. This is where the New Democracy was particularly revealing. Some speakers, from the Parliamentary spokesman, started up in anti-communism even the fascists of the Golden Dawn. Primary anti-communism! Besides, something we have to tell them is that they are clean. What attracts them was Cuba's earlier regime, which was the prostitution and the Caribbean casino. That image attracts them. They have the courage to talk about freedom for those who defend the freedom of exploiters to steal the wealth of the people, to steal the wealth of the working class. They have the courage to speak of freedom for those who, in their policy, serve the interests of capital, which leads to poverty and impoverishment of hundreds of millions of people, young children. It has the courage to speak and defend freedom, which defends imperialist interventions and imperialist wars. Of course, slander reaches supremely. What are they slandering about? They slander the conquests of all those who are trying to build another way, the conquests in education, the conquests in health. Really, don't you make a comparison of child mortality in Cuba and child mortality in the United States and tell us the results? They are conquests that have been achieved under conditions of economic exclusion. To slander international solidarity! But, of course, a very big question arises here: what does the SYRIZA Government have to do with all that has happened in Cuba? No relation at all! Just what is confirmed is that SYRIZA is the best follower of the New Democracy and PASOK policy. It is the one who implements all of what the previous parties have not dared to do in demolition of the workers' insurance and social rights, in total liberalisation of the labour market. They are the ones whose government brought NATO to our court in the Aegean Sea. They are the ones who treat workers and retired people with MATs, violence and chemicals. It is this government today who is persecuting Kilkis, because it was - it says - out of the schools, using a post-mortem legislative framework. From this point of view, therefore, the agony and the government, as well as the other parties which serve, are supporting the capitalist exploitation system. You want to slander any attempt of the people, the peoples, to build socialism. You want to slander socialism, the only real hope that today exists for the peoples of all the earth and for the Greek people. However, whatever you do, you will not stop the course of social development, the course of humanity for the avenues of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Rapt, from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment. We amazedly heard Mrs Vakis knit the voyage of Castro and bewilder all those who called him a dictator. How can anyone call a man who has not allowed a free election to take place in his home country near sixty years? Do you like this democracy without elections? Of course, history will judge him. Now we're going to the bill. Reading the first page of the explanatory memorandum of the bill under discussion, one can read the long adventure of entrepreneurship in Greece and the very simple explanation why investors do not stop in this country and prefer other destinations that offer better investment environment and stable conditions for the development of their business plans. It also explains to a large extent the deficit of the competitiveness of the Greek economy, which is wrongly moving towards an international competition of attracting businesses, which, as you know, have no emotions, but an economic rationale for choosing the seat of their activities. What do we want over time to avoid Greece? Corruption, complexity, bureaucracy, overlap with the responsibilities of licensed operators, dependence on mechanisms and procedures that maintain an unjust service system. These are deeply rooted phenomena that find a way to survive in all systems, because, curiously, they have the potential to transform and exploit any new context. One of my reservations is whether the proposed bundle of provisions is solid enough to prevent it from being breached in the same way. What do we want in time to achieve in Greece? Modern management tools, automated processes, speed, transparency, confidence in private and public synergy. ‘Simplification’ means the magical word missing from the application of any development effort that is being legislated. It is necessary not to favour - we regulate everything, not to control it administratively in an excessive way, not to introduce the obligation of many signatures, of many responsibilities, causing confusion, overlapping and delays. What's the target? We must finally create a favourable investment environment. To choose Greece as a destination with economic interest and investment friendly. To stop the disinvestment and reindustrialize the country. Strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. What is a basic condition for this? A good law and good application. To abolish bureaucratic procedures that create high administrative costs. To make access and licensing systems more practical and faster, by simplifying and supplementing existing legislation. Codify and automate the audit procedures. It is important that we can see to what extent the economic activity affects the public interest so that each public authorisation process is proportionate. To simplify the terms of the law. To see when there is a need for authorisation. It is important to provide a mere investment environment. Where license is required, make it simpler. But where we do not need to abolish it. However, there is another big, almost permanent issue which is the thought of all the legislations: the application not so much of the letter, but of the spirit of the law. The administration which will be called upon to implement the new framework must act with a different perception. Regulatory acts and arrangements must be of a similar nature and content. It makes no sense to legislate on policies which are undone by the day-to-day act of the administration, on the contrary, by voids of interpretation, by complex ministerial decisions, by clarifying circulars, which substantially irritate the will of the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to say any more about this. These need a modern investment environment. It is not a matter of reading self-evidents. The bill under discussion includes, if not all, most. The question is how an old management mentality can implement a new law in a mentality, how quickly can the public authority adapt and execute, how could the provisions of the bill guarantee that their content is compatible with the day-to-day practice of administration, how quickly can it be changed, how quickly can it be adapted to the new data of competitiveness and the need for investment. It is optimistic - although this is the case with a great ideological delay - that the development perspective goes through reforms of this nature. The political consensus in a bill of this kind can only exist on our part where this perspective is provided and not where we see the risk of slipping into a situation close to the existing one. The bill has problems on many points and it is probably a lost opportunity to change something. Let us not forget that we are legislating texts and policies that all investors, Greeks and foreigners read and are criteria for their behaviour and investment moves. Only with their own confidence can growth return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Megalomoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to start my speech, but I shall refer in turn to the subject of Fidel Castro. I think I am obliged to be a representative of my party. How much the Greek people care if Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister of Greece, has gone to Cuba to honor Fidel Castro. In fact, that is not the problem that should concern us. Our view, of course, is that we cannot praise ourselves here in the temple of democracy, a politician who has fifty years to make normal elections in his own country, because that is not a democracy. Now we're going to today's bill. It is positive and a little paradoxical to come second in a series of legislation that has a positive sign. It's paradoxical for SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. This really gives us pleasure, although we have some objections to this, as in the previous bill, which I shall mention next. Speaking in yesterday's bill, on the basis of the statements by your rapporteur to a committee, I said that you have lost national sovereignty. I finally don't think you've lost dominance. I understood that from the behaviour and the reasons of the MPs, both SYRIZA and ANEL. My view is that you really brought the bills because the lenders just pushed you, because that's what you have to do. I really don't think that's what you want. I hope that this law will be implemented immediately because it will help the Greek economy. From now on, we find Article 14 very positive, which refers to the integrated system of activities and controls, which you must apply immediately. We hope that this will happen, which is very difficult, because your policy has so far shown us that you are blocking features. I hope you're going according to the schedule and applying to 100% by 2019. I have heard the speakers of the Democratic Alliance and of the New Democracy - many of them with courage indeed - talk about delays in SYRIZA. Yeah, SYRIZA's late. When you want to bring growth, such bills have to come from the beginning in the House, we have to discuss them to give real solutions and help the common goal, which is the country's exit from the crisis. They also talked about a barbaric policy of the current government, which puts taxes on all branches, on all citizens. What did they do? We should just think before we say things and think about what we did, and if not us, our predecessors, because many of those who spoke are new MPs. I shall refer to a number of articles in the bill. I will begin with Article 43, where you tell us that all the hotel units where they have fifty beds and below are not obliged to establish a fire safety system. These units constitute 45% of the hotel's potential. I don't understand why this is happening. First of all, we must consider the security of our citizens. When 45% of citizens going to hotels will not be covered in this matter, I don't really know what might happen. For me there is absolutely no sense in what you want to bring. I will give you some other examples of two-speed citizens and businessmen, which no one mentioned and about the present licensing scheme, which is very different for existing and new businesses. I will give you some examples. For example, in the case of catering shops, there are shops that have licenses for bank seats and operate with their old permits. But if a young man wants to open a similar store right next door, they don't give him a license for tables, because the street is classed commercial. So, one of them can't have one? Is that considered healthy competition? I'll tell you about the livestock units. There are livestock units in residential areas, which do not comply with any hygiene rule at all. A young man comes in and opens up a livestock business and is forced to comply with all the rules and hygiene conditions. This definitely raises its cost. When he invoices his product, he must consider how much he has spent. It has not done the same cost to a person who has received an extension and does not comply with all the rules. It makes sense to say what I'm telling you. The worst thing for me - which I know very well - is the licenses at the kindergartens. Children's stations which existed before the new laws have the right to have children in smaller spaces and with fewer benefits. There are children’s stations with old permits that have no room for the sick children to stay until their parents get them, do not have sleeping rooms and have much less squares. If the license is renewed at an old-payed nursery, which fits twenty-five children, 12 children will not be able to enter. These are issues which we need to consider. There cannot really be citizens and businessmen from two speeds or two when we are in a democratic state that we all want to be equal. I hope - in order to return to the bill - these laws and provisions, which you bring, will reduce the services a little, so that there can be substantial checks. It is not possible in August, with more tourists, to have less revenue. This is because, mainly because of your tax policy, most shopkeepers tried to avoid tax. They did it. We cannot have less revenue, with greater taxes and greater entry of people. It doesn't make sense. We must look into the essential roots of evil. This is what you have to do, get out into society, see how the real economy works and find real solutions. That's enough with the wishes. The other negative I have identified in this bill, as in most of which you enter, are ministerial decisions. You want to regulate matters through Ministers. Why not regulate and solve everything through the law? This concerns Articles 5, 7, 11 and 13. Do you want to have a party check? What do you want to have? Do you think that a lifetime will be in the government and will you control things or expect that when the new government comes, will it change them as it suits it? That's not the way you should rule. I would like to refer now to Article 29, which deals with licensed music. It's a matter that hurts all professionals of the kind. We are not against this article. We'll just be there to check on how the situation is going. I would also like to talk about Article 7 concerning the shops and the permits to be granted to the archaeological sites, for which you have brought legal improvements, but which does not clearly define and, as the Constitution imposes on us, the protection of both the environment and our culture. Greece is the country that gave birth to culture. That's what we have to have. This bill alone is not even a single one in a million to bring about the much-conscious development. At the moment, for the new year, we are in the 81st position, according to the World Economic Forum, on issues of competitiveness. Someone gets the list and sees: Where am I going to invest? Certainly not in Greece, which is together with Ukraine and Algeria. Ukraine has war, and the Algerian regime is all aware of it. I shall, in fact, submit this table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The most worrying, in fact, is the 131 position we have on the macro-economic scale. What investor is coming to us? The reasons we have these positions are, firstly, political instability - as I said yesterday, the Prime Minister is talking about elections every time they come to the table - they are tax burdens - so we have to look at these issues immediately - the inefficiency of public administration - which we hope will be cured by these bills - is the inability of access to finance - do not forget that you brought the capital controls together with the previous memoranda, you have destroyed the banking system - and the government instability, which in this case is obvious, since we have seen your colleague veto many times on many issues and have conflict of opinion. I see similar data from previous times, for example, which was the period of the Olympics, the fat cows, in which we had the best place in competitiveness, the 31st place. Again in the climate for the macro-economy we had 71st place. What does that mean? How there will be no major investor who wants to invest in Greece and make stable investments and not unscrupulous jobs, to create permanent jobs to combat the terrible unemployment rate we have in Greece, the largest in Europe and one of the largest in the world. So our policy must be stable in this country. Every minister can't come and want to go through his own. Unfortunately, however, this is done. Since I remember myself, that's exactly what I see. We must finally all sit together on a table and decide on the country's common good. All we need to keep an eye on is this. Really, people are tired. I don't know how long it'll last. I hope - and I say this again, I hope - that this and the previous bill will also be implemented immediately so that we can see a radius of salvation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st General School of Sparta. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, a ministerial amendment has been tabled to the draft law and I would ask the Minister to present it. Mr. Kefaliannis, would you like to take the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u152	No, Mr President, if the Minister speaks then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u153	All right, after the Minister. Minister, has the amendment been distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u154	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u155	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment, which we are tabling, mainly includes amendments to N.4314/2014 for the NRP programmes. The provisions - this is a general comment - which we are going through today help to ensure the smooth completion of programmes and to simplify payment procedures, which are, as you know very well, administratively very heavy at the moment in the ESDP and the Public Investment Programme. I'll speak more specifically: The first provision, which is the addition of the new Article 27A, simplifys the process of signing payments by reducing the number of signatures required for the Public Investment Programme. The process is also homogenised, following the new role and functioning of the Ministry's Directorates-General for Economic Affairs. The very important thing, in our view, is that the rehabilitation of the administrative function is achieved by the need to pay low levels of involvement of the political leadership. In other words, it will be possible for the administration to proceed immediately, quickly, when we talk about small amounts, without the political leadership being required. The second provision is to regulate the payment of evaluators - evaluators present in the registers of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology - for innovation projects managed by the GSP. It is also a provision concerning the smooth payment of innovation projects managed by the Ministry of Education. In the third provision - and this is also related to a reference I made in my report, in relation to the conclusion of agreements with international financial institutions for the creation of new financial instruments - it is clear that something was not entirely clear about the previous regime, that is, the role of the Ministry of Economy, precisely in relation to the process of concluding contracts with international houses, so that we can implement the financial instruments, to which I have referred earlier. The fourth provision concerns the fact that once the new Ministry of Digital Policy was established, the law stipulates that the final structure, which existed in the Ministry of Infrastructure, should be transferred to the newly established Ministry. For reasons of time, however, the administrative procedures that have to do with imposing on the European Commission the closure report of the NRP for the 2007-2013 programming period - which, I would remind you, must be submitted by 31 March 2017 - through this provision, we are moving this staff structure to the Ministry of Economy by 30-3-2017 and then to its final transfer to the Ministry of Digital Policy. The fifth provision - which is an autonomous provision - gives the opportunity to complete projects in which implementing entities are municipal water and sewerage companies, which were responded by the previous NSRP. They had already endured since 2014. These works have remained orphans. So that these projects can be completed, then, we are increasing the possibility of the law to date providing for financing them by the National Public Investment Programme. To date, we have had the opportunity to finance these projects up to 35%. We are now increasing this to 100% so that these projects can be implemented and completed. The latter provision concerns an amendment to Law 3419/2005. It also concerns the liquidation of State registers, on the basis of the actual time-outs of business, so that GFCF can also proceed to deletion proceedings on the basis of facts relevant to the resolution of undertakings, rather than data which are often delayed by the administration. These are the provisions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Konstantinopoulos have been asked for the floor. Mr. Kefaliannis, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u159	I need two minutes. I won't need any more. I shall be speaking on the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u160	I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u161	I would say that it is a shame on our parliamentary procedure that an amendment should be tabled - which may be in the right direction, we do not actually go into this at the moment - which has not been discussed in this House, there has not been a debate in this House. I am sure that the Members of the Co-Population, the Government majority, do not even know the content of the amendment. As far as I can see, it was tabled at 16.20 p.m., we were distributed a quarter ago and we are called upon to decide and vote on an amendment that no one is currently aware of the content of. The Minister may have analysed it, it may have every good, good intention, but it is in no way in line with a good piece of legislation. For this reason, because we cannot go into the substance of this amendment, we are voting against it and condemning the way in which this legislation takes place. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] But you will allow me, Mr President, to make a reference to both of the other amendments accepted by the Minister, Nos 779 and 780. These two amendments refer to Articles 11 and 15 of this draft law. In fact, it raises us a very long question, because, although it is provided for in Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure that amendments can be tabled even on a draft law, which has certainly not been passed and is not a law, it is very surprising that it has not been tabled as a legislative improvement. I would therefore also like the Minister to give us an explanation - to be recorded in the Minutes - why these two amendments were not tabled as a legislative improvement, but through the Members of the Co-Population they were tabled as amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u164	Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, for the last three days in this House, the Democratic Integration has really tried with all the information it had to support, say its views, to propose. Today, the government brings us a new bill. If the government does not get it back and if it does not bring it tomorrow, we will rethink what we will vote on. Toys, Minister, - and I am not speaking personally - five minutes and ten minutes before the process is over, because all the speakers have finished, bring something and say to us'read it and vote', we do not accept it. Either the government gets it back or if it does not get it back, we will reassess our position on the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u167	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u168	Here, Mr. Loverde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u169	I invoke what Mr Constantinople said. And I want to describe them in my own way and with my own parliamentary experience. Mr President, we have had a draft law as a matter of urgency yesterday and a today's one which we have done our best to understand what it says, to make an assessment of each Member of Parliament, every political party to make its criticisms. The process is not worthy of the needs of the country. It has much more needs and many things depend on the course of the draft laws, yesterday's and today's. I want to ask you directly, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u170	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u171	I'm not one of the NSRF experts to be able to see it and say an opinion. We have not been mobilised as a parliamentary group for anything in this regard. Mr. Constantinople tells you that even though we declare our good will in relation to the titles of your draft law, you are now coming and bringing almost a draft law. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u172	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u173	Answer me, why are you doing this, so we can tell you what we think. Why are you doing this? So if you submit it today, to be voted on next week or Friday, what will you lose?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u175	Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. In yesterday’s bill, the super-experience we had, Article 19 was withdrawn and had to do with the NRP, for anyone who knew what Article 19 was about. Suddenly, Mr Minister, you bring to ninety-one one, with the end, at the time we start voting on the principle and on the articles, an amendment which is, in itself, a bill which has to do with the NRP. Do you want us to believe that he has nothing to do with it indirectly or directly? Unless you don't know that either, Minister. In yesterday's bill, Article 19 withdrew had to do with an NSRC and a specific hotelier. Do you want to say more details? What else can we tell you? Shame on you! New Democracy and PASOK didn't do that either when they were in their heels!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u177	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's a great disappointment. This 30-page amendment is the sudden death of the consensus we were trying to build, but based on some principles of good legislation. Yesterday's urgent procedure in the draft law on economic activity. Today under the urgency procedure, and now five minutes before the end of the sitting, ladies and gentlemen, after the end of the sitting, you are bringing us an amendment dealing with financing issues. A little while I've counted it has amendments to four different fundamental laws. I am now addressing SYRIZA's good colleagues, and I would like to say that because you are honest people - so I would like to believe - tell me if you read these thirty pages, the body of the amendment, the explanatory statement, and the documents, and you are supposed to tell me if you make any sense. The vote, the positive or the negative, will I tell you, will it be well reasoned within you? I don't think so. We are told that there is no way we can vote in favour of it. I suggest you, Minister, withdraw it and bring it to a subsequent draft law. Tomorrow is the Conference of Presidents. Well, unless you're telling us that's the prerequisite. Bring it, but give us a day - if possible - to study it. As an act we show you, let's say, tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u179	Mrs. Jackrey, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u180	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u181	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u182	I understand the concerns raised in relation to the time of tabling. But we need to understand and I would expect, in particular, from officials and MPs who have nursed and from governmental thugs, to have an image of how sometimes there are provisions which must be voted on so that the procedures that are necessary can go ahead. For example, Mr. Constantinople knows that very well since he has nursed in this ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u183	Bring it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u184	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u185	Yesterday you didn't know? Let's bring it back from yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u186	You know that there is a procedure, because there are also the co-legislative ministers who must see the provision and they must sign it. You know that this process has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u187	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Constantinople, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Constantinople, you know, we talked about it. This process has started since yesterday. I told you yesterday in committee. This process has begun. I will speak with specific example, so that shadows are not created. There is a provision, for example, concerning what I mentioned before - and you will allow me, please, in the contract that we wish to sign, the funding agreement which has to do with the EAF, with the European Investment Fund, for this new Participation Fund, which will enable small and medium-sized enterprises to finance in the sense of equality funding. This should be closed in the next few days. In order to close this agreement, in order to be able to sign it, this provision must pass. We cannot, in other words, refer this back to the future. And our logic was to table this regulation in this bill, because it is a bill of the particular Ministry, that is to say, it is up to our Ministry, so that we do not enter a process of depositing a bill of another Ministry, as it would be tomorrow, which would create another type of problem. That's the logic. There is no mood or any sense, for example, of bypassing a procedure. If you want to discuss the substance of the provisions as well, but that is not the logic. What if it is to go through the provisions relating to the NRP - Mr Constantinople, you know this very well - so that we can move forward with the closure of the period and submit the closure report to the European Commission and conclude the agreement, which is very important - I think has been recognised by many of you too - with the European Investment Fund in order to be able to proceed with the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, which must be closed in the next few days. That is why we are going through these provisions today and in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, the Minister has unintentionally offended us. In other words, he said the man that the co-legislative ministers had to see it in order to sign it. The Members responsible, who are responsible for legislating, should not see it? Is it possible for such serious issues, as Minister, to be activated at the last minute? If these are so serious issues, you know them for weeks or months. You didn't find out yesterday. So why are you doing this? The answer is still pending. And who tells us that within these settings, which we will not have time to see, is not something that if we were to vote for by listening to you, based on your good intentions, could we not then appear in the world? Because something might be hiding here. Who's telling us? It is only the committee's control, on the part of parliamentary groups, which needs a little time to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u192	Good, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u193	Take her back. You have a draft law tomorrow, too. Put it as a ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u194	Are we going to testify it to another ministry's draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u195	Other Ministry. That's not paradoxical. It's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u196	Is that a good practice, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u197	Yeah, well, is this the first time it's done? It's a constant practice. But at least, the House will have won the fact that it will know what it votes for. He's got time to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u198	Wait a minute. Minister, are you in line with this proposal? They won't react anyway if you bring it to another bill, as they say. What's the answer, so we can move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u199	We, Mr President, have a tolerance to come tomorrow. It is not possible with such a practice to degrade Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u200	It became clear what you're saying. Minister, please have the last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u201	To repeat the logic, because Mr. Loverdos asked if we knew it beforehand. We knew, Mr. Loverdo, that this week a bill will come from our Ministry. So these provisions are now being tabled as an amendment to this draft law. It is not easy - you know it very well from your experience - the provisions are always ready when we want them to be ready. You know that from your experience. I think that you, too, understand the urgency of this, in that these provisions will facilitate the absorption of resources, the conclusion of important agreements. I, for my part, understand what is being put forward by the opposition, namely that there is not enough time to consider this amendment. So we should withdraw it now and testify tomorrow. But with the agreement that this will be the case tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u202	Minister, we will not discuss this. We're honestly telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u203	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u204	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u205	Allow me, Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u206	There was a gentlemen's deal. Gentlemen's agreement, as you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u207	Look, it's not about crossing my order. We are talking here about provisions which facilitate the financing of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u208	Let the Parliamentary Representatives state this. Make a commitment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u209	Good. There was a commitment from the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u210	I have pointed out to you before the urgency of the matter, with regard to the agreements in question, which we have to move forward in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u211	Good, it's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u212	Since it is understood by you and we can have a understanding that tomorrow this amendment will pass, we withdraw it and re-assign it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u213	It's all right, it's all right! The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is closed: 'New institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u222	The draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘New institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions’ was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u231	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u240	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u249	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u258	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u267	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u276	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u285	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u294	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u303	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u312	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u321	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being by a majority, which would include the amendment under a general number 780 and a special 3. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u330	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u339	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, in Article 14, because it was one of the issues we had raised as a Democratic Integration on the integrated information system, we said 'yes' and we agree with the government and the Minister's commitment that this system will, as promised, be completed within six months. Yeah, well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u348	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u357	Article 15 has therefore been accepted as being by a majority, which will include the amendment under a general number 779 and a special 2. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u366	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u375	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u384	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u393	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u402	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u411	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u420	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u429	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u438	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u447	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u456	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u465	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u474	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u483	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u492	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u501	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u510	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u519	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u528	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u537	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u546	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u555	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u564	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u573	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u582	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u591	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u600	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u609	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u618	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u622	Here you go. We have raised several issues with the Minister, who has not yet included them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u627	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u636	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u645	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u654	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u663	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u672	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u681	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u690	Article 52 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u699	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u708	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u717	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 56 shall be withdrawn and the other Articles shall be renumbered. Does the House accept the new Rule 56, old 57, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u726	The new Article 56-old 57- has therefore been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 779 and a special number 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u735	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 779 and a special 2 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 15 of the draft law. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 780 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u744	The amendment, by a general number 780 and a special 3, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 11 of the draft law. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u753	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘New institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions’ was therefore accepted in principle and under the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u762	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘New institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles, amendments and all of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u763	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u764	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 6 October 2016, Monday 17 October 2016, Tuesday 18 October 2016 and Wednesday 19 October 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u765	The minutes of Thursday 6 October 2016, Monday 17 October 2016, Tuesday 18 October 2016 and Wednesday 19 October 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-30-S1-commons.u766	With the agreement of the House at 17.36 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, December 1, 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) legislative work: according to the agenda and the special agenda that have been distributed.
