ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Monday 21 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 212/15-11-2016 by MP Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the use of the Olympic Sniper at Markopoulou Attica. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 207/14-11-2016, a topical question by MP II, New Democracy, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the completion of the upgrading of Higher Educational Institutes (E.T.I.). 3. The 195/11-11-2016 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the removal of obstacles to the exploitation of the former Greek airport. 4. The Question No 220/15-11-2016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the recovery of the associated aid to root producers in the region in Antheli of the Prefecture of Fthiotis. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 213/15-11-2016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Maria Triantafylou to the Minister of Tourism concerning the completion of the work of the Marina Meslogoi. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 208/14-11-2016 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Finance about the award of wage promotions, ratings, executives of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies. 3. The 198/11-11-2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarana of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the insurance facilities of business, employers or insured municipalities of the Holy City of Messina and Napatia due to natural disasters on 21 and 22-10-2016. 4. The current question by MP Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Economics, concerning delays in the payment to former contractors of the ERT. 5. The 180/7-11-2016 topical question of the Deputy Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Styriou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the blockades in the start of the work of restoring the old Judge of the Congregation of the Great Artas. 6. The 182/7-11-2016 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance on the management of the red loans of the former "ATE BANK", in an unfair manner for its debtors. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 164/1-11-2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Ministers for Home and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Prefecture of Iotolokarnania. 8. The question by No 127/18-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, concerning the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. 9. The Question No 62/10-10-2016 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from nursery stations. 10. The 173/3-11-2016 topical question by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). 11. The question by number 199/14-11-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the need for specific measures for coastal fisheries. 12. The Question No 202/14-11-2016 by F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the disasters in agricultural production caused by rainfall, hails, floods in Law Trikalos. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 192/10-11-2016 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Health, on the inclusion of the Meningitis B vaccine in the national vaccination programme. 14. Observed. The 194/11-11-2016 topical question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christos Boukokouros, to the Minister of Health, about the payment of workers from Volos General Hospital who have been pending since 2014. 15. The 197/11-11-2016 topical question by MP Serres of the Union of Centres Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of increasing the population of stray animals in our country. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No. 148/31-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health on the completion of the procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff to hospitals in the country. 17. The number 45/5-10-2016 of MP II Piraeus Union Mr.Theodoras Megaloconou to the Minister of Health, on the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The Question No 211/10-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on compulsory insurance for small towns under two thousand inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fourth question will be discussed with number 189/8-11-2016 in the context of the second question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the attempt to protect the property of Greeks in Himara, which is equitable with raging. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Amanatidis. Please, Mr. Micho, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Tirana, which is clearly part of Turkey's sphere of influence, is gradually beginning to adopt Turkey's practice against our country's national sovereign rights and in particular to question the presence of the Greek minority. In particular, on 28 October, which is an important day, the Mayor of Himarras essentially attempted to dismantle nineteen Greek families, by letter - an alert, which provided a five-day period for evacuation from their homes, on the ground that they were being demolished due to a development plan of the Centre of Himaras. This service was done without referring to the relevant legal framework, while, according to the directly involved, it is part of the broader planning of expulsion of Greeks from their homes, serving and entrepreneurial interests. I ask you: what has this unacceptable attempt to erupt Greeks from the region of Himaras and what action do you intend to take in order to defend the permanent residence of Greek families at their homes and to prevent their displacement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u4	Your Honor, I will immediately come to the point of your question. Initially, with two communications from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed its concern about developments in the region and called on the Albanian authorities to immediately cancel the planned demolitions and proceed to substantial consultation with the inhabitants of Himaras. We also called on Albania to prove in practice that it operates as the rule of law by protecting all its citizens, regardless of national origin, from arbitrary and illegality. Then, because of the continuing negative attitude of the Tiranas in this regard, we have taken a firm approach to the Albanian Ambassador here. In addition, we have made information to the competent international organisations, representatives of the international community and, of course, to our partners in the European Union. I would like to inform you - and, of course, I think you know - that there has not been any further negative development in the abovementioned issue of demolitions in Himara at the moment. It goes without saying that we are closely following this whole issue and, of course, through our diplomatic authorities in the neighbouring country, who always remain on the side of our fellow citizens. In my dentistry, I shall refer in more detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Micho, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. A few days ago we learned that Turkey, Erdogan - and indeed the Prime Minister of Albania thanked him - was giving the police uniforms all over Albania a gift. On the other hand, they still haven't let us take the bones of people buried there. We're talking about a development plan, what Albanians say, in the center of Tirana. Was there any compensation granted to the nineteen families to go buy somewhere else in their ancestral lands again? Also, let the Prime Minister of Albania know that our country must respect it for two reasons: First of all, there is a book - he must get to read it - called "Illyria: ancient Greek land". Secondly, when the borders were opened, all Albanians came here when Hodja opened the prisons. We dressed them, fed them, no matter how disgraceful most of them made, and friendly they still do not have! Who is Albania, which disputes our Greek minority and national sovereignty? It's a small state, a made-up state from various nations. It's the Tuskides, the Geggies, the Vlachs, the Koutsobols, the Kosovars, and a thousand two. And they raise their heads to us? Whoever raises a head - we do not owe them, if someone owes someone, they are the ones to us - and they want to pull a little bit higher up and to get our tone to sit a little better, to learn to speak better and to respect our homeland more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr von Wogau, we have made all the tons clear to the Albanian side that we as a government and an opinion attach particular importance to respect for and safeguard all the rights of the Greek national minority, regardless of - and I stress this - from the area in which its members live. For us, the issues of the Greek national minority are an essential and integral component of Greek-Albanian relations and are permanently placed in our contacts with the Albanian side. As regards the asset in particular, I would like to point out that prerequisites for its overall and fair treatment are the inclusion of this issue in the promoted institutional changes in justice and the rule of law, which are being attempted in the neighbour. The property issue has become part of Albania's European path, and perhaps it is the most important part I would like to insist on, Mr President. Reforms in the field of justice and the protection of human and minority rights, including property, are, moreover, the two key priorities set in Tirana as prerequisites for examining the opening of accession negotiations with the European Union. As things have been heard and written, I would like to inform you that the European Commission's latest report is not binding on Albania's progress in accession negotiations. Secondly, for us it is decisive what I have told you, and we have distributed it to all tons. Believe me that this has been taken seriously into account, including the fact that efforts are being made at the lower level and committees - for which it is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to answer you - in relation to the big issue, in fact, of the burial of the heroes who fell on 28 October in the war with the Italians. These are my answers, Mr Papoutsis. I think we are on a firm path and a policy which cannot be taken into account by the neighbouring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. MEP Konstantinos Skrekas requests a short-day absence abroad from November 24 to November 27, 2016 and Ms Bakoyannis from November 18 to November 23, 2016, in order to participate in the events for the 60th anniversary of the Cantona Sports University, guest of the Dean and the Foundation's Board of Directors. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We move to the twelfth under number 143/26-10-2016 a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, New Democracy Mr Salma, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But Mr Salmas is not in the Chamber right now, so this timely question will be discussed later. Unfortunately, you see that we now have to penalise the MPs, not the ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, because there's already been a lot of talk about that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u12	Yes, of course, now you're absolutely right... We are therefore moving on to the second debate on the second question by number 206/14-11-2016 of the second time question by the Member of the New Democracy MP, Eleftherios Aegnakis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the adoption of the clarifications of Law No.4387/2016 "The Single Social Security System - Pension reform - Reformation of an insurance scheme - Reform of income tax and gambling and other provisions", in order to grant the main and supplementary pensions to new pensioners. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr. Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the awarding of pensions is a fundamental obligation of a rule of law. It is an integral part of the social rule of law. It is a minimum sample of respect for individual rights and care for the third age. It does not mean a democratic state if it does not take care of a level of decent living for pensioners and for people who have worked for decades and are waiting to receive the pension they are entitled to. And, of course, we are not talking about those who have secured the 'back door' pension. Minister, you fooled the retired. You promised them a refund of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. And not only have you not kept your promises - after all, this is also a regular tactic of your government - but you have done the very opposite: you have also snatched the pensions of even the low pensioners, and then you have cut the ESS, making pensioners even poorer. And you are doing something else, Minister: you have been delaying the granting of pensions for a very long time. Minister, the granting of a pension to a reasonable - that is, at a relatively short time - of the application in question is an essential obligation of the State. You, with the policy of delaying awards, are being circumvented another right. I shall refer to the case of IKA pensioners. According to IKA's own figures, there are now hundreds of twenty - two thousand forty - seven applications for main and supplementary pensions. The main pensions are sixty thousand four hundred ninety-three and the subsidiary is sixty-sixty-four. They're delaying widow's pensions, disability pensions. Despite the fact that six months have elapsed since the adoption of the new Insurance Act, i.e. Law No.4387/2016, the necessary secondary legislation has not been adopted, the relevant presidential decrees and the clarification circulars necessary to implement the law have not been issued. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This results in young pensioners, who have applied for retirement after the law was passed, that is from 12-5-2016 onwards, waiting for retirement, which remains in the drawers of the funds. Another very important element is this: Since the government's delay and in this area a large debt has been created from unpaid pensions. It is estimated that this debt is EUR 1 billion on an annual basis, with the main insurance funds being subscribed to the ECA: IKA, OAE, OAA, EBRD. Minister, all the main pensions, old age, disability and widowhood are pending due to a delay in issuing the relevant circular. People wait and don't even get a temporary pension, which we had established as a government of New Democracy. The same problem exists for supplementary pensions in the EIB. Indeed, the EIF does not do so itself and has chosen to "fly the ball" in the funds itself. From 1-1-2015, nothing has been paid. Nothing! Not even a percentage. No decision has been taken. And, of course, they will be paid retrospectively and a huge cost will be created. In conclusion, I would like to ask you: When do you intend to publish the clarifications? Have you considered that the deficit to be inherited from the existing insurance funds by the newly created Single Social Security Body from 1-1-2017 is constantly growing? And if so, where will this cost be covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. At least four of the points in your position, Mr. Aygeakis, concern your own policy and I will immediately tell you: The EKT was your commitment to its cut and, in the end, you are the ones who mainly supported last year's cut and with your vote. So don't give us up for something that you've always wanted to happen. It is also the question of subsidiary bodies. It should not at least be avoided yet that the zero deficit clause would lead to zero supplementary pensions. And in order for the Greek people to understand what we are talking about, I repeat that we should not at all touch on reserves from the Single European Insurance Fund and only give supplementary pension if there are as many contributions as would be sufficient for these supplementary pensions to be granted. That is why we decided to use the reserves, more than 1.2 billion, which the EIF has in order not to reduce supplementary pensions. This was also an achievement of our own negotiation, not to confine ourselves to the commitment that you had made, to comply with the zero deficit clause for supplementary pensions. The third is reductions in the main pensions. Those who come from a streamlining system, as far as they are concerned, lead to the maintenance of pensions already paid, the protection of these pensions and the development of new pensions. Finally, you spoke about the speed in which pensions were awarded after a 40% reduction in the workers in the insurance sector and after a persistent attempt to give pensions as quickly as possible, you cannot talk about delays. This is because at the end of 2014 when our government took over, you had given major pensions at least thirty thousand less than us. They were escaping from you eighty-three thousand. Sixty thousand of the main pensions paid in 2016, with our own governance, arrived. Every year from 2014 to 2015 and 2016, we gave more than thirty thousand pensions. Therefore, despite the fact that we had reduced staff, it is rather misguided to abandon the government for delays. Finally, the amendment introduced for the disposal of EUR 859 000, which will cover about two thousand pensioners in 2017, has already been announced. So what we have already announced is clear. We have no policy of avoiding pension payments and we do not create any hidden deficits in contrast to you. Because you know you did it, so you say we do it now. You kept back pensions to provide better information on the financial balance of insurers. Do not accuse us that we are seeking not to pay pensions because we are doing exactly the opposite. There will be 859 000 euros to cover a hundred thousand pensions and therefore in 2017 we will have completely reduced the waiting. Finally, if there is some delay in the new method of calculating pensions, it is due to the expectation we have from the Greek Statistical Office. We expect it to give us the way in which we calculate the present year of the previously paid contributions, from 2002 onwards, in order to have a clear and correct valuation of the present value of the contributions, with a revert from the past. Some factors need to be issued by ELSTAT and their extradition is urgent, so they will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you don't surprise us. Immediately, irresponsible tactics to throw the ball in the platform and you think everything is too much. You weren't elected yesterday. You didn't take over the country's rule yesterday. You are a government of the place two years, Minister, two years of responsibility. What have you done in these two years? You're always throwing the ball at the platform. So the Greek people don't believe you. You're not unresponsible. No.4387 from whom was it voted? From you. What have you done all this time? Absolutely nothing. It has been completed six months and the world is waiting and talking about people, which at the moment does not have the elementary power to support their daily needs. What did you tell us? Once again you have told us what we have heard from Mr Katrugalo, by the way, that you have brought the amendment to the House. I'm fine! What did you do six months? I guess you don't have a sense of time or clock. Six months later, the Circulars haven't ready yet. He's still in preparation. Where are you? Are you somewhere else? Do you know what daily needs means? Time passes, weeks, months and needs are growing. Don't you understand the needs of the world? Are you somewhere else? Are you in another society? I imagine or imagined that you would respond more modestly, especially after Mr. Katrugalo's departure from your ministry. Minister, is there an oral order to the EFF, not to make any decision on supplementary pensions? Do you know anything about this? Because that information comes to our ears. Have you calculated the costs for pension retroactives that have not been awarded in the last few months? Has this cost been entered in the 2016 budget? Has it been calculated in the 2017 budget, where your Government brings you in the next few days to Parliament? They are specific questions and facts to which you are not answering. Just throw the ball and say "your own government..." etc. These people don't listen to them. He sees you as the ones responsible for the black mess in the pensioners' room. Mr Katrugalos has said so, and you have said that the main problem with delay is lack of staff. But, Minister, I would remind you that in 2014, the Samara government had prepared recruitments for permanent staff and, of course, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government preferred to take two and three thousand employees to the ERT, as well as cleaners, and all good. In other words, he preferred to satisfy his electorate and not the Greek people's real needs. Have you thought, Minister, that some of these people who are waiting for your circular and the decision to award their pensions may not have any other income? Have you thought of that? What are you really doing about it? Look at those red lines that Mr Katrugalos had invoked and you in various debates have probably faded and left behind. Please very seriously and with greater respect, consider and answer what I ask you to do. It is a matter of humanity and dignity, but also a sign of fundamental respect from the state to the citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. You are well placed in the art of deception, Mr. Aygeakis. We, however, understand politics as a fundamental act. What I said was no evasion of our responsibility. We have our responsibilities in full and from the outset, when I speak, I say that we will not be covered down and behind your own shortcomings. I said that although the staff of the insurers were reduced by 40%, we with reduced staff earned more pensions. I didn't say it was because we didn't make much, because you guys reduced the staff. I said in comparison that we made thirty thousand more every year than they had ever been. Are you blaming us for achieving this, despite the grief within structures and personnel? We're doing it. This is praise for us and reproach for you. Do not try to make use of it, so you are interested in the fact that the pensioners did not quickly receive the pension when you had the art to delay, to show the accounting results completely flat and unresponsive to the truth. As far as the information you say is concerned, you insist that you lie, saying that we give a line not to go out of pensions, when I tell you - and all the Greek people know it - that it is already a government decision to make available to cover a hundred thousand outstanding pensions - so we get close to zero - EUR 859 million. It's written and will be voted on, and then what will you say? I suspect that you are again proclaiming undermining in our own effort. You'll do whatever goes through your hand so we don't get this done. I don't want to say where my suspicions are based. It is your reason and the behaviour of some in the social security system you have left behind, to make it difficult for us to make every step that we are taking to achieve this project. Because the single social security institution, Mr Augias, will work effectively for both the insured and the employees. We will finally have a transparent public security body, in a way that every insured person sees at this point in time and at any time in the future what is the pension he receives. Transparency, abolition of any interlocutory, disappearance of corruption. That will be our result and these bets we will achieve. So to speak on the basis of data, and that should be the essence of our political controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u22	You're welcome, Mr. Ausgeakis. There is no trilogy, because if you speak, the Minister will also speak again and there is no trilogy from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u23	Just a word. Besides, it's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u24	You'll talk to the Minister. The Rules of Procedure do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u25	Because he left a cliff and a suggestion some people find it difficult to do the work...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u26	But he will ask for the floor for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u27	I'll just say one sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u28	Tell him yourself. Tritology doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u29	The Minister left a peak and implied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u30	I understand that, but there is no tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u32	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u33	Please, these won't be written in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and four teachers from the thirteenth Municipal School of Mandukios Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before we move on - I apologise to the Minister and to the honourable Member - I must announce what questions will not be discussed, as the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs us. The second under number 205/14-11-2016 topical question of the first-round question of the MEP Laconia of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the progress of the Greek Air Industry S.A. It will not be discussed because of the lack of competence of the Ministry. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. The fifth under number 222/15-11-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the shocking testimonies of a well-known club in Amarousi, will not be discussed due to the lack of responsibility of the Ministry. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior are again responsible. The first under number 210/15-11-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the implementation of measures to address the prolonged refugee - immigration crisis in Samos, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Musala abroad. The third, with number 218/15-11-2016, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the prohibition by the Ministry of Finance of opening new bank accounts and the "tolerance" of excessive charges for electronic interbank transactions, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The tenth under number 152/31-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on "if the Minister of Finance and his relatives returned their money to the Greek banks as he urged the Greeks to remove the “capital controls”, he will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion again. Eleventh question under number 117/17-10-2016 by Evia MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the "scandial" sale of TRAINOSE against the incomplete price of 45m euros, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The Question No 31/3-10-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance on the compensation of shareholders of Cooperative Banks will not be discussed because of the impediment of the relevant Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou, who will be absent due to a workload, as he himself states and will. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in The fourth under No 219/15-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the digitisation of mobile monuments and the lousy working relationships that archaeologists are called upon to work on, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the relevant Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Konordos, due to miserable obligations. The sixth question, number 209/14-11-2016, first question by MP of the Association of Centres, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from the Home Photovoltaic Systems, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister, Mr. Stathakis. The third, with number 216/15-11-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the decision of the Council of State on the counting of EUR 30,000,000 to the thirty-two convicted World Athenian Athenians "Athens 1997", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Kyreiadis, because it takes time to update. The eighth Question No 186/8-11-2016, on the situation in the National Sports Centres (ESAK) and the Municipal Sports Centres, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr Vassiliou, because it takes time to update. The ninth under No. 157/31-10-2016 topical question of the second-cycle MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn.Save Vlacho to the Minister of National Defence, on “direct border closure, guard from the Armed Forces and a referendum on the illegal immigration issue”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsasas on account of an extended official meeting of the Ministry. It will also not be discussed, the first with number 211/15-11-2016 topical question of the second question of the Chania MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Antonios Balomenakis to the Minister of Tourism on the introduction of a legislative framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon of "all inclusive" to tourism, due to the obstruction of the Minister of Tourism Mr. Kountoura, because it will be in Thessaloniki. Furthermore, there will not be any discussion on the fifth under number 190/8-11-2016 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece, as the Deputy Minister of State declares a workload. Unfortunately, we have other questions that will not be discussed. We will not discuss the sixth question with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the immediate coverage of educational gaps in the professional high schools of Crete, due to the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, as the responsibilities have not yet been clarified. Nor will the seventh question be discussed under number 179/7-11-2016 in the context of the second question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Grassakis, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the establishment of a Port Academy in Alexandroupolis, due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Kourublis, on the grounds of past commitments. We move on to the debate of the twelfth under number 143/26-10-2016 on a timely second question by the Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliament, Mr Marios Salmas, on direct and permanent measures to protect the Messlogian City. The Minister will answer Mr. Skourletis. Mr. Salma, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I could only thank you, Minister, for your respect for the parliamentary control procedure. This respect is evident after all these cases of alleged blockade by the Government of Ministers, which lead to the annulment, in essence, of the act of parliamentary control. Thirteen topical questions were annulled, why did the ministers say they were incapable of being informed? In the sixteen years when I'm a Member, this is unprecedented. So because this respect shown by ministers in the parliamentary procedure is not common, so I wanted to thank you. My question today, Minister, raises an ordinary debate on not so unusual a matter concerning the care of the state in order to restore normality in a society which, due to severe weather conditions, was affected at both households and businesses level, whether civil or animal and plant capital. This happened in the Municipality of Messology on October 21st. But the period you are called upon to act is not common. Dialogue and reflection on the attitude of a state towards the weak citizens, particularly those who, from one day to the next, are in an objective difficulty of restoring their lives in an earlier situation, become high on the political agenda and goes beyond political, traditional ideologies, as a common meeting place is gradually being established. In fact, today, Minister, you are not only inviting yourself to answer what the state is going to do about the Mediterranean, but about how a government, which, in its ideological core, was supposed to have supported the weak social groups, given the economic difficulties in the country. However, since we are not talking here about the many billions missing from the country, but we are talking about a number of hundreds of thousands of euros to be provided by the government to show the social face of a government, your answer will indeed determine whether the government has meant what it was saying and whether you believe in the applied ideology, namely whether the the theorem that one believes in support of the weak is being carried out, in a case where the state can take on its back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u35	Before you reply, Minister, because Mr Salmas raised the issue of the presence of the ministers and because the world is watching us on television, I must say that the ministers who say that their duties have not yet been clarified because of the reshaping, are perfectly justified, as are the ministers on the outside. Where there really is a matter is when one states "I am not coming", because that is contrary to the duty of the Minister. In other words, parliamentary control is not if the Minister wants to come. The Minister has to come. We must therefore distinguish this, that the justified ministers are justified and the unjustified ones are unjustified. It has also been decided at the Conference of Presidents that, if this phenomenon continues, we will go to the old regime, which each ministry had on its day and had to come to the Minister. We told the Conference of Presidents to leave this oldest system in place and to remain in a more civilised way, that is to say, it is not obliged to come, but to understand it itself. Unfortunately, however, there are some who do not see it. However, it is also unfair for the ministers who are consistent to put them all together. Mr Skourletis is, of course, the consistent ones - you said it, I do not have to say it - but we have to say it. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Salma, I am forced to begin with a comment to which you have also referred in relation to the presence of the Government's ministers. I would like to say to you - and those who have at times taken up the duties of the Minister are aware of it - that, many times, this is the case, which does not allow for an absolute consistency at this really necessary level of parliamentary control. Do not underestimate the fact of the recent reform, because there is a need here for a Minister to have certain issues, to be informed by the Services - this is not a case for a couple of days - so that he may not recite a tape, but be able to give honest and convincing answers. From there, in relation to your question, in fact on 21 and 22 October 2016 the intense weather phenomena, rainfall, caused a great deal of damage, particularly in the Municipality of Messology, the Messology series, business-related disasters, homes and crops. I think the response of the state and the competent agencies was immediate and this is evidenced by the facts. We are talking not about one, but about many ministries that are coordinating and attempting to respond to the specific constructions. I mention them very quickly: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Rural Development. A number of measures are now under way. First of all, in relation to the problems that have arisen and the disasters, both in livestock and in vegetable capital, the damage to cotton crops and oil crops for the municipalities of Mesologi, Nafpatia and Eupalio Doridos has already been recorded and the corresponding statements have already been made by 6 November. Those who fulfil the conditions after checking these declarations will be subject to a grant programme by the Emergency Planning Service. In relation to the damage to homes, there has been control by 27 October. One hundred and eighty-nine buildings have been controlled in Mesolonghi and forty-five in the municipality of Nafpaktos. In relation to the compensation provided for enterprises and professions, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the existing institutional framework, provides for compensation of up to 30% for damages to buildings, machinery and raw materials. In addition, there are emergency, immediate support measures for the affected and individual, but also relative to the families. The amount of EUR 586,94 for each aid, for each family, as well as compensation to households of EUR 5,869,41 for households who have been damaged in their homes for households. At the same time, insurers have already predicted a capitalisation of debts to the insurance funds. Those who want to get into a dosing program, which amounts to twelve to twenty-four in number. The Ministry of Interior coordinates all this work. The Municipality of Messology has been declared in an emergency by 21-4-2017. There are also many others, but it does not allow us time to be more detailed. I do not think, then, that there has been any frugality. But let me make a comment before I hear you in your dilemma. We have to understand this. We have been in a time when extreme weather phenomena are growing, which is not irrelevant to this very great debate that is taking place in the case of climate change. So when we plan our cities - and part of the plan also concerns regions and municipalities - we must not only think about the next day, but about the next generations and climate change, which are currently sending a risk signal. I think we are on a good path, despite the difficulties of our time and the poor means we have, in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Mr Salma, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u38	Minister, there are obviously the short-term response measures, the medium-term planning instruments for a local society, so that it does not find the city even more a weather phenomenon, but also the long-term plans, which concern policy on climate change in general. I would like to point out that obviously the usual conditions for all natural disasters have been mentioned. However, I would like to make a very good comment. The time to deal with and pay money to the affected could be faster. I would also like to stress that your government has worked with the existing institutional framework, which means that it did not consider it necessary to legislate differently for those affected by similar natural disasters. The institutional framework created by a government shows and its political view of how the euros should be compensated, i.e. how each family receives and how much the damage is compensated by the state. This demonstrates the political view, the ideology, which is behind it. But in practice I do not see it expressed, because you are working with the institutional system that has existed so far. Moreover, I do not see the medium-term planning. As to what it means in the medium term, it means that I would like to hear what is going to happen with the pumping stations which are not working, with the money that the municipality and the region do not have to repair or, if necessary, replace pumping stations, so that we can make better drainage of the rainwater, because the problem remains. After all, that's why these damages occurred. Because the city was impeccable, since pumping was not working, because it is old and, of course, no one had thought that the city of Messology was structured with minimal altitude over the sea. Again, then, the next intense rain, the next very intense weather phenomenon will create similar phenomena, both in Mesolonghi and in Nafpatto, for the very same reason that the problems of October 21st have been created. I would therefore ask you to tell me - if you have anything to say to me - about the medium-term measures you are going to take so that the next weather phenomenon does not have to come back to the House and discuss the immediate measures to restore the affected. In other words, I would like you to tell me what measures this state is going to take in the next period on infrastructure projects, before we reach climate change and measures to defend this change, to shield the areas of Messology and Nafpaktos, so that the city is not exposed to such problems and is not exposed to weather phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you again, Mr President. I would like to remind you, because, obviously, you know that already on 15 February 2016, a programme to prevent damage and disasters has been approved for the city of Messology at the level of EUR 100,000, and an additional EUR 50,000 is currently being launched for the same purpose. Since then, within 2016, they have been drawn from the Central Self-Resources for the Messolong 472.535 euros. At the same time, on issues relating to these issues, which you have raised in your dentext, namely the preparation of studies and the investigation of the causes of the flooding, there is the 'COMPERA' programme, from which EUR 115.496 has been allocated, while under the Regional Programme of Western Greece for the NSRF for the period 2014-2020 for the flood protection provided for EUR 5.2 million. So all that you mentioned is being dealt with at the moment. But you said about the institutional framework and whether it should be changed. Be careful to see, the state in this particular matter must have a consequence. Alas, if every time one government discovered its own response system. Obviously it needs to be improved, based on the experience we have in dealing with such issues, but the issue is the availability of resources. You have indeed referred to and hinted on your protagonist for an alleged support for the weak and criticised this government for that. Who? Which side are you talking to? From the support of the strong, the few, and you tell this government, which, in unprecedented circumstances, defends, as far as possible, anyone and those accusations, which have really been affected by the policy you inherited us, of the five years of extreme austerity? Are you criticizing? Make the review, but she's the one who's being evaluated. So everyone knows the hierarchies that each political site has, the values it serves and its schedule. In this real field of policy, we are all judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. In your speech, the topical and urgent debate has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-18-S1-commons.u42	With the consent of the House at 10.57 the sitting for Monday, November 21, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
