ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-2-2016 authorisation, the minutes of the GZ's meeting, on Saturday, 20 February 2016, with regard to the resolution on the whole draft law were ratified by the Bureau: ‘Actions to accelerate the government's work and other provisions’.]] We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 11/7/3-12-2015 by the Members of the New Democracy Christos Stagioura, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Stavros Kalamanis, Ioannis Vroutsi, Mavroudis Voridis, Anna - Michel Astoniakopoulou, Savva Anastasiadis, Ioannis Pakisotakis, Konstantinos Karamanlis, Antonis Samaras, Evangelos Meimarakis, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Spyridos - Adonidos Georgiadis, Ioannis Antoniadis, Maria Antonios, Fotinis Arabatzis, Eleftherios Aygenaki, Georgiou Vagios Vagionas, Konstantinos Vlachos, Soultesis, Georgiou Georgiou Georgada, Athanastzis Khasssiou, Athanastou, Athanasios Giannakis, Athanasios, Athanasiosiasiasiasou, Athanasiosiasiassi, Athanasiossi, Athanasios Gianakis. Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgiou Karasmani, Andreas Katsaniotis, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Simeon Kedicoglou, Christos Kerameos, Olgas Kefaloniannis, Emmanuel Konsolas, Konstantinos Konogeorgiou, Nikitas Kaklamanis, Konstantinos Koukodimou, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Ioannis Andrianos, Panagiotis (Noti) Mitaraki, Christos Boukorou, Athanasios Bourou, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Elena Raptou, Marios Salmas, Konstantinou, Konstantinos Kydzios Kyrikossiou, Ioannis Konstantinos Kyrikouloussiou, Aghios Kyrikoulos Kyrikossiou, Ioannis Kynosilios Kynosiostisiostiou, Ioannis Kosiliou, Akou Kysos Kytzios Kytsimossiou - Agorgiossiou, Akou, Akou Distaniakonossiou, Akou Xanthios Kynosilisilisilissioulouthakistsiou, Akou, Akoulosos Kiadisulathios Kosos Kosos Kosiakonosos Kossiou, Akou, Akou Distaniakosos Kosiakonossioulosos Tsos Tsstssssos T. The first honourable Member to speak, Mr Christos Stagioras, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u2	Minister, today the government is sailing, so that the country, with all its fronts, internally and externally, openly. Uncertainties, endogenous and exogenous, are widening. Challenges and risks are growing. Societies are weakening. Households and businesses are fighting. The economy of the country is in a state of flattery, seeking a new balance point below what was achieved at the end of 2014. It has become clear, since it is now supported by quantitative and qualitative indicators, that the country in the first year of governance of the Left has wandered down. The New Democracy will be responsible, as always, for exploring, exploring and highlighting the great responsibility of today's government for this downward trend. Today, with the current question of the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, it focuses on a crucial issue, one of this period, the last recapitalisation of banks, managed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a question that has brought great costs to taxpayers, uncertainty to bank workers and enormous damage to the shareholders of credit institutions, small and large, private and public, state and insurance funds. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the country's credit institutions have been faced with major challenges because of the budgetary crisis - but I note with their own responsibility - in the face of this crisis. These challenges have made it necessary to create a framework for their support in order to preserve the real economy from a complete collapse and citizens' deposits. The framework started to be created in time since 2008, since the then government of New Democracy, when the tsunami of the global economic crisis hit Europe. And this was despite the rabies reaction of the opposition parties, who claimed that there was no global crisis and that the government was then wrongly supporting the banks. This criticism was repeated only by the Left and the subsequent support of the banks. The result is, as the Bank of Greece's monetary policy report confirms, that the banks' capital adequacy remains at satisfactory levels, even in the first quarter of 2015. I am tabling the relevant report by the Governor of the Bank of Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For example, because of these choices by the governments at the time, the banking institutions regained part of the deposits, they had successful increases in equity by raising EUR 8.3 billion on the markets, issued securities worth approximately EUR 2.5 million, zeroed their dependency on the Real Equity Facility, drastically reduced the flow of new non-performing loans and, finally, the total revenue of the State, from the use of the 2008 liquidity package on dividends and commissions, depending on the pillar, exceeded EUR 4 billion, State budget revenues for the period 2009-2014. And all this for the benefit of Greek taxpayers. Therefore, the Greek banking system’s first conclusion was gradually stabilised and until 2014 the confidence in it was restored. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this situation changed in 2015. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, due to erroneous and unremitting operations, has brought the banking system at high risk, risks raised after the bank holiday and capital restrictions, and this is why, inter alia, in the first half of 2015 became the following. Total deposits and flows of credit institutions decreased by around EUR 50 billion, the higher outflow since the crisis in the first half of 2015. The quality of the banks’ assets deteriorated as non-performing loans increased rapidly. The value of the banking shares held by the Greek State collapsed as it decreased by 80%. They have returned, under the responsibility of the government - and we will return to it - the EUR 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund in the European Financial Stability Fund. Finally, the banking system was financed, almost exclusively, by the Emergency Responsibility Facility. All this in the first half of 2015. All this confirms the last interim report on Bank of Greece's monetary policy in December 2015, which states: "The prolonged negotiations - the Government of the Left - the outflow of deposits - the Government of the Left - and the growing percentage of non-performing loans due to the deterioration of the economic climate - the Left Government - made it necessary to recapitalise the Greek banking system, despite the 2014 recapitalisation". I am tabling the relevant passage from the report we discussed a week ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the Minutes the above passage, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second conclusion is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government bears sole responsibility for shaping the need to recapitalise the banks. Ladies and gentlemen, the need for a new recapitalisation of the banks was therefore known as the summer of 2015. It was also included in the third memorandum last August. However, as is customary in order to blur the environment, the government has delayed the establishment of the institutional framework necessary for the implementation of the recapitalisation. The framework was discussed in the House at the end of October, a Saturday day and while the government knew that the slower it was, given that the recapitalisation should have been completed by the end of the year, the more it would have been done on less favourable terms, as was the case at the end of the year. The third conclusion is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government bears enormous responsibility for the delay in the adoption of the recapitalisation framework. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the results of this recapitalisation? Firstly, the recapitalisation added new costs to the State and increased the public debt. Of course, the Government will claim that the final budgetary burden is lower than the initial estimates. However, there is still an extra burden for Greek taxpayers, who did not even exist as a possibility a few months ago. Secondly, the recapitalisation has repaid the previous increases in equity. As an indication, for the National Bank alone, the first recapitalisation in 2013 was made at a price per share of EUR 4,29, the second recapitalisation in 2014 at EUR 2,2 and the third, the left recapitalisation in 2015 at EUR 0,02. Therefore, the cost for old investors and shareholders, small and large, Greek and foreign, is enormous. Thirdly, the recapitalisation changed the ownership structure of the banks. The new bank owners, mainly foreign investors, acquired most of the Greek banking system and, of course, its control, paying a total of just over 5 billion euros. The Greek private participation decreased significantly. Fourthly, the recapitalisation almost nullified the value of the portfolio of the Financial Stability Fund, i.e. the shares held by Greek taxpayers via the State, and this was due both to the dramatic decrease in the participation rates of the Fund in banks, i.e. the State in banks, as well as to the disappearance of bank shares. Indicatively, but specifically, the value of the participation of the Financial System, the Greek State, the Greek taxpayers who only exceeded EUR 2 billion from EUR 12 billion at the end of 2014. Today, it has collapsed even lower, at EUR 1.2 billion. Therefore, the actual costs for Greek taxpayers are huge and the potential costs are even greater, since they have substantially lost the possibility of recovering the initial amount of the investment. Fifthly, the recapitalisation altered the restructuring plans of credit institutions to the lesser extent. The result is to provide for a contraction of the bank's network and substantial reductions in staff, which will exceed the four thousand people, but also to lose significant assets of the banks, such as Finansbank in the case of the National Bank, investment in Turkey in 2006 in the New Democracy and which, apart from its high symbolisation, covered the majority of the group's operations abroad, played a significant role in its size and contributed decisively to its profitability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Sixth, the recapitalisation cost taxpayers the cost and through the conversion of the preference shares held by the State to the National Bank in common.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Stavura, time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u4	I'll be done in a minute and a half, Mr. President. This conversion has been made with a 71% haircut on the nominal value, and significant losses were recorded from the introduction and negotiation of these new common shares on the Athens Stock Exchange. Therefore, the fourth conclusion is that the result of the left-wing recapitalisation of systemic banks is extremely unfavourable for the country, taxpayers, shareholders, employees. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the recapitalisation of the systemic banks, the recapitalisation of the Attica Bank is under way, and the recapitalisation of cooperative banks has been completed. And here are a number of serious questions - questions that my colleagues will raise - which are mainly questions about the price at which the Bank of Attica's capital increase took place, with the participation of the Treasury, insurers and public funds in the recapitalisation, in accordance with the procedure followed for the bodies to decide on their participation, at the huge cost that these entities have currently borne from this investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the painful footprint for the Greek economy, the left-wing government, the structure and functioning of the banking system is quite clear. That's why we're checking the government today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, can I take some time from my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u7	Do you want to take the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, as long as it takes from the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u9	I'm asking you why three minutes is the time of dentistry. That's what I'm saying. What's the crab, what's his junk? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is very diligently trying to hide its enormous responsibilities for the destruction of the Greek economy. The trick is simple: Memorandum before, Memorandum now. Recapitalisation before, recapitalisation now. Measuring before, measures now. They are all the same, except that you, the good, the left-wing and compassionate government, do not believe these, some others badly impose them on you. That's what your myth says. And lately the myth was enriched with the "The Greek people knew what they voted for in September". This is on a few lines the foreign policy you are following: Creating confusion. Constructing occupants. And, of course, cynicism, 'Let people watch out for what he was voting for'! Ladies and gentlemen, let us put things in a row and start with an assumption. The banks are the main pillar of financing the economy. Any thought of development in a modern economy begins and is based on the institutional assurance and financial health of banks. This is even more crucial in Europe, especially in Greece, in so far as the Greek companies are based almost exclusively on the banks to finance them. With the banking crisis in the United States in 2008, transmitted to Europe, the first bank support programmes were launched. In Greece in 2008, banks did not have toxic products in their balance sheets, such as the American or European ones. Most of their resources were healthy as they came from deposits. Thus, the first packages of assistance to the Greek banks were more than enough to deal with the problem. The 2010 crisis brought about an unprecedented fiscal adjustment, a recession and therefore inability to serve loans and a fall in the value of collateral. These losses, together with a necessary concentration of the banking system, have brought about the necessary second recapitalisation of the banking system. The crisis of the banking system in the period 2011-2014 was a consequence of the financial crisis, and not the other way around. Its response was extremely successful because it was timely, well-orbited, faced the root of the problem, approved by the markets, created a remarkable return of deposits, stabilised the rate of growth of 'bad' loans. The 2015 crisis was a result of SYRIZA’s catastrophic semester. Firstly, the political instability that created a large wave of deposit outflows. Secondly, the problem of unpaid loans, which was also the result of the SYRIZA's encouragement to debtors not to fulfil their obligations. Thirdly, SYRIZA's continuous rhetoric for exiting the euro. Fourthly, the incredibly amateur, supposedly, non-objective negotiation with its only weapon, allegedly, threat of exiting the euro. Fifthly, the closure of banks and capital controls. This crisis, whose causes can be solely sought in SYRIZA's policy, is the only one responsible for the third recapitalisation of banks in order. It was the government's foreign policy that destroyed every trace of confidence in the banking system and crushed both the deposits, after the withdrawal of 45 billion in a semester, as well as the loans, by multiplying the symptoms of non-payment. So the myth that you are cultivating, ladies and gentlemen of the Cooperative, that the third recapitalisation was something of a natural consequence of the latter, ending here. He has your own seal, he has your own responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the third recapitalisation begins within a suffocating timeframe with the sole responsibility of the government. In such uncertainty, the market valued banks at very low prices and a large part of the investors concerned were not strategic, but they were looking for a quick profit, which gives rise to fluctuations in the share prices. Result? The completion of the third recapitalisation led, as expected, to the disappearance of the old shareholders and of course also the Financial Stability Fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is a de facto privatisation of banks under the worst possible conditions, since the participation of the Financial Stability Fund is in principle limited to 2.5% in Eurobank from 35% in advance of the increase, to 11% in Alpha from 66.2% before the increase, to 25% in Piraeus Bank from 66.9% and 33% in the National Bank from 57.3% before the recapitalisation. Some time ago, the Financial Stability Fund damaged EUR 8.27 billion in the nine-month period January-September 2015, reflecting the enormous losses of the Greek State from the third recapitalisation. In absolute terms, the third recapitalisation limited the value of public participations first to EUR 3,3 billion. Let us not talk more about the time horizon that the Greek public needs to see again the value of its participations at EUR 20 billion. Instead, we hear government triumphs of successful third recapitalisation. But the reality is different and it's tragic. Within a minimum period of time, values collapsed further by more than 50%. The value of the participations of the Financial Stability Fund is just over EUR 500 million and needs an increase of over 3,000% to touch the 20 billion at which the value of public participation in the banks in the summer of 2014 was reached. The short-term financing of the Greek banks is made on worse terms than those of the second recapitalisation, our dependence on ELA amounts to EUR 71 billion. The interbank market is always very sceptical and transactions are only carried out with assured collateral. All this is the result of an unprecedented, unprecedented catastrophic policy for Greece, for the Greek economy, for Greek citizens. A lot has been written, much more has been said. But nothing can describe the size of this economic catastrophe. Your responsibilities, gentlemen of the government, are enormous. Your explanations are inadequate and you are even due to clear answers now. We will look for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u11	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have exhausted the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u12	I have three more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u13	You just got rid of the stress of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u14	Thirty seconds, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u15	All right, don't remove the process now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u16	I have three minutes, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u17	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you don't have any dentistry. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as far as the interesting part of the debate is concerned, I think that, as you can see, the part of the damage has been fully explained by the recapitalisation. It was explained by my previous colleagues. I think you have no objection that we have been damaged by the recapitalisation. In other words, I hope that we will agree on this, namely that the shareholders have been destroyed, that the participation in the increase in share capital has been made at bad prices, from which there will never be any income recovery, that the Financial Stability Fund has lost too much money and that the public debt has been charged, because you have to recapitalise the banks. I think we'll agree on that. The damage occurred for the Greek State. And now to discuss why this damage has occurred. That's an interesting conversation. So here we have to say, this damage was inevitable, is there any responsibility? Is this responsibility going to be sought anywhere? What has caused this need for recapitalisation? I have a claim: my claim is that you wanted it. And when I say 'you wanted', because I am talking about a legal concept, in the sense of the dome, I am not going to go to all the variations of the dome. The dome has three variations: it is the direct one, it is the second degree and the potential. I'm not going to go to that, what exactly form, but you wanted it, that's the dome. And why am I saying "you wanted it"? Because listen to something. There is, for example, a series when this question had been asked on 3 December, we did not know different things and we have been illuminated since then with a series of interesting interventions by the former Minister of Finance, who said what? He said that a team - and you have to tell us, because I think you participated in this group or not, I have not made that clear in my mind and you will tell us, I imagine - to study a plan to deal with Greece's possible recovery. That's what Mr. Varoufakis said. He said that this plan faced the possibility of shortages in medicines, food, oil, so that there was at least knowledge of the potential consequences of such consequences, that there were attempts to find capital in Russia and China. And the most amazing thing - what does Mr. Varoufakis say? - that the government was aware of the possibility of bank closures being closed in advance. What you said then, that Draghi and so on, is false, because the government was aware of this possibility in advance, that it was also considered in this context that Greek government bonds might be restructured, and even there was preparation for the relevant ministerial decision - here, ladies and gentlemen, I say this for those who know a few legal things - we are no longer thinking about something, because when I start and write ministerial decisions I do not think, I have action, the plans of ministerial decisions are actions - and that there was a preparation for a parallel payment system. These are added to what the central banker says. And the central banker, you know what he says, was worried about the mints. And there was a very interesting post, Mr President, from an average to SYRIZA, to the government, which said that there were preparations on the Prime Minister's side to prevent the possibility of a mint. Here. So the following question arises. Did you know that? Did you know that your policy leads to the closure of the banks? And the closure of the banks today we know that it has caused certain losses, which you obviously had taken into account. Question. What are your responsibilities? What responsibilities do you recognize today for this? What are you going to tell the Greek people that your policy has caused him this damage? Why should shareholders who were not big investors, the taxpayer, Mr President, be deprived of their money, because he, too, had a share of the banks and the taxpayer, because he was burdened with the public debt because of the government's views, its conscious functioning, the decisions he took? She did it. I'm saying this isn't what I'm saying here. I read: "It is necessary to investigate where the need for the recapitalisation of banks has emerged," says a text and I will tell you what, which can finally be as I read it to you. He then says: "This committee must investigate in particular all the details relating to mergers and acquisitions of banks, the criteria for the selection of systemic banks - listen to what else interest - the reasons why the second recapitalisation was accepted at a price below the initial acquisition price on the part of the Greek State and the shares of the banks". Does something remind you, Minister? It's your proposal to become a Committee of Inquiry. Do you insist on these views? Are these matters worthy of research, or have your views changed today? For the third recapitalisation, what we had to investigate for the second, does Parliament have to investigate them or not? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Constantine Karamanlis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason we are holding this debate today is because the government has brought the banking system to the worst of its history. After you closed the banks, you imposed capital controls, which "flyed" the economy, and eventually caused the need to recapitalise. Your mistakes unfortunately started too early. Firstly, you delayed three months to create the institutional framework for the recapitalisation process. Secondly, the capital needs of 25 billion, which you agreed with the outside world, were out of every reality, and that finally turns out to be because they only needed 5.4 billion from the Financial Stability Fund. The result is that before the recapitalisation process began, confidence in the banking system collapsed. Here your responsibility and your responsibility, but also the troika is obvious. When you finally carried out the recapitalisation of the Greek banks, the Greek State lost a simple move of 24.5 billion, i.e. the 10-year-old ENPIA. But it is not just that important. If we now come to the recapitalisation of non-systemic banks, we will again see omissions and great responsibilities. A characteristic example is the Attica Bank. This is where you will allow me a small parentheses. We in the New Democracy, as you can see, do not have the perception that you had when you were on the tables of the opposition, that is, we are not fans of the hysterical opposition against everything. We are not using the methods of amphitheatres or occupations, which have brought you to the government headquarters so easily. That is why I will not say the word'scandal', although believe it would be very easy. Our obligation is to exercise our opposition duties away from extremes. So let's see with coolness, objectivity and seriousness what happened to the Attica Bank. Firstly, we note that the Bank of Attica is a non-systemic bank and is controlled, supervised, not by the Financial Stability Fund, but by the Bank of Greece. This, of course, does not mean that we do not want this bank to be rescued at all. Of course it is important for the national economy that this bank is in operation. The question, however, here is how the government chose to survive and whether it was really a rescue or captive. Second, on 10-12-2015, on the last day of the capital increase, the bank's price on the Athens Stock Exchange was EUR 0,22. The recapitalisation price was, however, made and determined by you at EUR 0,30 when, according to the market and the experts, the fair value, i.e. the bank’s actual valuation, ranged from EUR 0,10 to EUR 0,15. The first time in history we saw an increase in the share capital of a listed company, where the stock exchange price was cheaper than the price of the increase. Today, the Attica Bank's share is negotiating at EUR 0,11. The conclusions are yours. Thirdly, with this excessively high valuation, who participated and on what criteria? And we're not looking at private individuals here, but can you answer which DEKO participated, starting from HEYDAP, which is a listed company on the Athens Stock Exchange and which we all know the main shareholder is the Greek state? Was the EEAS pressed to participate in the increase? Yes or no? It is also important to tell us which other CECE have participated in increasing equity. Has, Minister, participated in any event, the Ionian People's Solidarity Fund and other banks with EUR 55 million? Did he participate in "Eleftherios Venizelos"? Have there been any other reactions? Fourthly, is it true that the European Central Bank is investigating the way in which the capital increase is covered, as there are strong indications of government involvement in order to cover the amount of the increase? This fact alone proves all our objections. And to close, explain why we don't understand, what are you trying to do with the Attica Bank? Because our position is clear from the beginning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We want the Attica Bank to be saved and something more, we want it to be protected on the substance. It must, however, function on the basis of private economic criteria and not with the help of the ECHO. What do you want? Would you like an Attica captive bank, a prisoner of the government, with shareholders of the state and the insurance funds, to act as a parallel banking system? These are the questions you are asking today, and we are looking forward to your answers with great interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that for today's debate on the question by SYRIZA, Mr.Makis Balaouras is appointed a Parliamentary Representative, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Evangelos Karakostas, from Potamis, Mr. Charis Theocharis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos and from the Centron Association Mr. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Why did a new recapitalisation take place, ladies and gentlemen? We all remember the famous cruel and proud negotiation of the first government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. The need for a new recapitalisation of the banks in 2015 is one of its results. I will also invoke the report of the European Commission of July 2015, which says that the need came from the uncertainty of the Greek Government's economic and financial policies in the last six months, namely the first half of 2015 and the report of the Bank of Greece's Monetary Policy for 2014-2015, which claims that in the first quarter of 2015 the banks' capital adequacy remained at satisfactory levels. I would like to remind you, however, of a typical example of the approach to the negotiation of the first Tsipras - Kammenos government. Minister, you will remember - I am sure - the famous second plan, the government's plan to create a parallel banking system. In what way? But, of course, hacking, i.e. through a child friend of the Minister of Finance, who had been appointed Secretary-General of Information Systems, the VAT of each taxpayer from the services of his Ministry. Tell me, Minister, a Prime Minister, but a Prime Minister, who would listen to this proposal from his Minister of Finance and would not fire him at the same time. Unfortunately, the answer to the country is very easy. There's one. It's Mr. Tsipras. It is now clear that Mr. Tsipras has believed and wanted to implement Mr. Varoufakis' plan, which is why he was held in the place of the Minister of Finance. But I do not believe, Minister, that you, as a member of the government at the time, and then as coordinator of the negotiating group, did not know this plan. I am impressed, however, that you have not raised any objections to this project. I would like to know, have you raised any objections? Otherwise, Mr. Chakaloto, and you served Plan II. The Government therefore bears heavy and exclusive responsibility for the need for a new recapitalisation. But let us now go to the process of recapitulating this in itself, namely the second government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, because there are very important responsibilities there too. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. You, Mr. Chakaloto, celebrate because it's only 5 billion dollars. We would remind you, however, that with your irresponsibility you have led us to the need for a new recapitalisation, charging Greek taxpayers to the state budget and public debt an additional EUR 5 billion. You know, Minister, what is EUR 5 billion? It's been over two years, the total receipts of HISPIA. Secondly, you managed with your irresponsibility to almost eliminate the value of the portfolio of the Financial Stability Fund, due to the collapse of the value of the bank shares and the drastic reduction in the percentages of participation of the Financial Stability Fund in the banks' equity. It is characteristic that at the end of 2014 the capitalisation of the Greek State, through the Financial Stability Fund, was almost 15 billion. Within a short period of time more than 85% of the stock value was lost. The conclusions are yours. Really, Minister, what is the result of this collapse of the stock value? Does the government have a responsibility? We're waiting for an answer. Thirdly, you handed over the control of Greek banks to foreign private investors, mainly to hedge funds. I remember the Prime Minister saying he won't hand over red loans to the aggressive foreign hedge funds. But you did exactly the opposite. Even in the September elections, you made it clear how the loans would be spent, thus increasing rapidly the number of non-performing loans. Fourthly, you have managed to leave the banks behind, but also give them a very low price, just 5 billion. It is not only the much smaller participation of the Greek State in share capital, but it is an impression that you have excluded from the process of Greek micro-investors, in the three of the four cases of systemic banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want thirty seconds, Mr President, and I will be done. Fifth and last point. I would like you, Minister, to confirm or deny us this: In the context of the new recapitalisation, an agreement was reached on the restructuring of the banking system. Together with the fact that in 2015 and 2016 we will have a recession, there is information that by the end of 2017 more than four thousand three hundred bank employees will be fired and will close about a hundred 30 banking shops. I would like you, Minister, to confirm or deny us this information. So you're going to get fired? Finally, it is only grief that all of this could have been avoided: the third memorandum and the bank recapitalisations and capital controls and, of course, overtaxation. You, however, preferred the supposed tough and proud negotiation and irresponsible governance, but playing with the fates of the country and the citizens and unbearablely burdening the new generation and all the productive classes. That is what we are paying today and while you are staying in the country's governance, the problems are growing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Dimas, give the oldest people the good example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u24	But do not think that the debate on the recapitalisation of banks ends here today. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u26	Why three minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u27	Because that's the way it is planned. We have no desire to offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, if you would be kind enough to have my dentistry, which is another two minutes. So let me talk once.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u29	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every day I hear SYRIZA officials say 'but in a year we could destroy the Greek economy'. That's what I hear and I wonder, honestly, who are they laughing at? The voters once again? They don't know who they are, do they? Both of them? They're probably the only ones who haven't figured out how much damage has been done to the Greek economy. So let us help them, because the recent recapitalisation reveals both the depth and the extent of the damage caused by the tragic or perhaps criminal government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Not generally in the Greek economy alone, but in every Greek and every Greek. A few weeks ago the government celebrated what it managed to recapitalise the banks. But he never answered why this recapitalisation was needed. What was it? A destiny or destiny of the country? As Mr Stakoras said, the monetary policy report shows us that at the end of 2014 the banks did not need to be recapitalised. The institutional framework was also in place for banks to be able to lend and lend the real economy, and the deposits were secured. There was confidence in the Greek banking system. The value of the Greek State’s participation at the end of 2014 was EUR 15 billion. It took just five months to change this image and now have a picture of a real decomposition before the recapitalisation: a deposit outflow of 50 billion, an increase in non-performing loans, a closed international market for Greek banking institutions. Due to creative ambiguity, we returned back to the 11 billion you would use for the Thessaloniki program. The value of the shares held by the State, from 15 billion, went to 2.5. Understand the damage, the size of this damage? These are billions, you know, with two'mi', not a 'ni', like the 'Yianni'. Five ENVIRONMENTs are the damage or seven insurance bills. The measures you need to cover now are five ENPIs or seven insurance bills. That's the damage. I'm saying that to make people understand the extent of the damage we're talking about. So here, after you closed the banks, 'darling', because the recapitalisation was required. You're proud to have completed it and tell us that you've achieved something. So, let's see: The celebrations for what are they? What did you do? You have managed to bring in a new EUR 5.4 billion account for the Greek State, namely for Greek taxpayers - to get together - together with the EUR 5.7 billion. Don't forget that. You have succeeded in charging more public debt, the burdensome and shameful public debt for which you are asking for relief, the sale of the banking system from the 35 billion worth of it, with just 5 billion. You have succeeded in the complete delinquency of the Greek banks, after going to the Hedge funds. The 'no house in the hands of a banker' became 'we give the banks directly to the cords' - as you said - 'the markets' and a further damage, namely one more of them, to the value of the CFS portfolio and the insurance funds. On 18-2-2016, that is, last week, the valuation of the participation was EUR 1.2 billion of the EUR 3.3 billion, which was on 2-11. Really, how many extraordinary contributions and measures for farmers do they need to cover such damage, Minister? That is what you have achieved, ladies and gentlemen. That's right, you're celebrating. You do well to be proud. You went from the creative ambiguity to the creative destruction of the Greek economy and the creative destruction of the Greek economy admittedly did so very well, because the destruction that has been done is quite clear. But the account, which is exclusively yours, you are now giving it to the Greek people with the creative - admittedly - argument that the Greek people voted for you and knew what they would pay. That's why he's on the streets, because he knew what he was gonna pay for. But you proved that the only thing you can do is keep increasing this account. The Greeks, however, can no longer pay your own mistakes, and soon, Mr President, I predict that this account will be returned to this government, and that will be the account you will pay far sooner than you imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Mr. Karagunis isn't here. It'll take a little more time in dentistry. Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if my fellow Members are listening to me at the university, but I would like to ask that, from now on, when I finish my political career, they give me an extensive training permit so that I can respond to economic theory and economic policy with what I hear here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u33	We can speed that up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u34	For example, I will have to study for at least one year why an economic historian of the future, when considering the 2010-2015 period, will consider that the important thing to explain is not because in the first five years it was reduced by 25% GDP, but because in the sixth year it was reduced by 0.7%. I have to explain it, I have to find arguments to support this position. Moreover, I will need to know why there are people who believe that there are economic maximisation without restrictions, when you decide to do something and you have no limitation, that is, you can attract the private sector, you can keep the role of the CFS, you can reduce the debt, and that's what you can do all together. You don't do one, and you lose a little bit of the other, you don't have a lot of restrictions. You can maximize without restrictions. These finances, at the western universities that I've been to, I've never heard of. And perhaps, Mr. Voridis, I gave you so many compliments on your legal knowledge, you can explain it to me after your dentistry, how there can be the economics of maximisation without restrictions. As if we could achieve all the things you said at the same time, without doing more to lose something from the other. But I have other questions, not the economic theory that I will need the education leave, but the political economy. I will wait for Mr Karathanasopoulos' speech, as usual with great interest, and I think I will understand and be able to answer. However, I would like an answer to political economic conditions. Because a party of the People's Right, the People's Party at European level, seems not to want to attract foreign investors. Does he want to hate foreign hedge funds, does he want there to be more state intervention and bank control, and does he want the banks to be under arrest? I imagine Mr Mitsotakis told Mrs Merkel that our new position within the People's Party is these things. But something else needs to be learned about a new series of lectures, what happens when a government and a Left wants to change things: it will have a relentless opposition that will use any weapon to come back to power, even with intimidation, and even the banks will be lost so that it cannot succeed in a different project. In a government and a society that wanted a conflict and a debate on different values, on different social projects, on different social hierarchies, we had a party - I think two and three at first - who thought that even the banks were worth it to stop this - not even a debate on a different society and a different economy. It is the political economy of destruction: "We do not mind what will happen in this country, as long as you do not change the flow of history, as long as you cannot bring social classes that have been on the margin for so many years and not enter the center of the developments. That's why we're all ready to do anything, tell the TV that if SYRIZA comes out, I'll make my money from the bank." And then you have the nerve to ask why you need a recapitalisation, what was the fault of bank run, when this bank Run strengthened it, you encouraged it, and you did what was going through your hand so that this government can't stand on its feet. The Greek people reacted to this two and three times - both in the referendum and in the September elections - because they understood who was trying to do something and who was trying to take it back to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u35	The economic theory says it's New Democracy's fault for bank run?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Voridis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u37	Why do we need the new recapitalisation? That's one of the questions. Obviously why the previous recapitalisations were not so successful. It would be a first start, when all you're saying is that, while red loans were growing over your time, what you managed to do was to reduce the rate of red loan growth. As if this is a difficult thing - they would once stop - especially when we have no credit extension, but we have a credit contract. Well, once the rate of increase in red loans would have a reduction. You do not tell us that, in your governance after the 2013 recapitalisation, the value of the shares of the CFSF had started in 2014 to decrease. In September 2014 it was at EUR 16.5 billion, in December 2014 at EUR 13.4 billion, in January 2015 at EUR 10.9 billion. So I reverse the question you ask us about how we're going to return the money and what we've lost from the CFS. What's your plan? Did you explain that to us? Without having faced the red loans and without the tools we used in this recapitalisation with Cocos that I will explain to you later. We'll see from 5.7 how we get them back and in the ways that I'll explain to you. You, the 25 billion that were yours, how you would take them back without any strategy on red loans - because we also let this be solved by SYRIZA - and without any of the weapons that we used in this recapitalisation in order to be able to give a response to this question. Let's do a recapitalisation for this recapitalisation - since I think it is obvious to everyone that we needed a new recapitalisation, because the previous one did not succeed - we need a new recapitalisation for the risk that was present and we need a new recapitalisation for the battle that the Greek Government gave to change the correlations within and outside Greece. Unless you promise now, you in the People's Party, that whenever in Europe again there is a government that will want to change and not continue your policies, it will face the same again. When it's about to make our own policy, we'll be good kids, when you want to change politics, you'll use any means and any weapon that will never be able to raise a head. What did we do to this recapitalisation? We used the loans available at the ESM 5.4 billion from the 25 billion. I agree with Mr Karamanlis. What creditors have done was that they were constantly saying - together with Greeks, but let us agree on something - that it was the 25 billion, and that has made a great contribution to falling bank prices before recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u38	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u39	You said that. Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u40	You accepted it. But you failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Staura, whatever you want to tell me. But are you saying that we failed with the creditors who for two years had continuous failures? Tell me something else. Think of another argument, but not that, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u42	...in the Eurogroup others say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u43	We used the 4.5 billion. 4.1 billion, 75% of this investment is in CoCos that will give 8% coupon and can deliver us within 5 years 1.6 billion. So when we sell or convert these Cocos, it'll have a general refund of 5.7 billion. 25% of the investment, 1.3 billion is in shares that will certainly depend on how the economy goes. So we used Cocos to pay us 8% every year until the banks buy it. And that means that 4,1 billion of our CFSF investment we can get 1.6 over five years. If Cocos sells at 4.1, we'll have a total of 5.7. For common shares we will be able to see what is going to go to the economy and how the price of shares depends on SYRIZA's plan. The plan of SYRIZA has the well-known road map that began with the recapitalisation, ended and continued with the closure of the first assessment. I see an encouragement in this area too to create economic conditions which are not good, that it is not going well. You're not alone in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u44	I mean, we're not shutting down the evaluation. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u45	Oh, no. I heard you, Mr. Voridis. I have ears and I hear. So, we're going to the questions you're putting, after we've had the recapitalisation. One of the questions you ask is time. The recapitalisation could not be carried out before we have the stress tests that were in October and the recapitalisation could not be carried out, as I explained to you - but it seems before December I explained to you - until we solve the very difficult and technical question of what we are doing with preferential shares, where we had the problem that if they participated in the bail in, then there were other investors who would like their own investments to qualify for special treatment. On the other hand, if they entered the bail in there was the fear that the EBRD and other provisions could apply to the bail in the deposits. That gave us some limitations on how fast we could go. And we went pretty fast. We prevented not only the 1st of January, where the provisions of the EBRD enter into force, but also prevented the sharp decline in the stock exchanges that took place in the previous period. If we hadn't done that, you know, it would have been harder to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u46	Did you know the fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u47	I'm saying it would be harder...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u48	Did you know her and catch up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Teddy, why are you interrupting? You're all interrupting. I don't think I interrupted anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u50	When we hear irrationalities, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u51	Is that absurd?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u52	You're telling me you got the fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u53	What we're saying is irrational?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u54	A lot of what you say is absurdity. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Dendia, I've been expecting better behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Tendas, are you resigning from intervention as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u57	No, no. I just heard something strange about knowing the developments in the Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u58	All right, then, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u59	No, I say we have prevented the two developments and the 1st January of the EBRD and the fall of the stock exchanges. Can you tell me what's unreasonable about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u60	You didn't know the fall of the Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u61	We didn't prophesy, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u62	Tell me, I give you the floor. What's unreasonable about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u63	The word is given by the one behind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u64	Well, we've caught up with it. I hope you're going to say some better arguments in denology and prology, because I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Voridis, please, will you continue your own intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u66	Then it was the question of whether we had to change, convert, share preferences, or should have participated in the bail in, to which I have no idea if you agree that we did right or not. Because I think you want it anyway. We had the following dilemma: If we turned them into them, we could turn them, as the law said, into the average of the price of the previous 12 months. He was supposed to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u67	Which bank is it for? For a bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Stavura, please. He's the only speaker who's interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u69	For the two banks, not one of the banks. Secondly, we could change the law and turn them into the price that would come out of the offer book, from the book building process. If we did the first thing, we'd lose a lot of money in relation to what happened. If we did the second, private investors wouldn't come. Do we agree on that? Answer me. Do we agree on that? That if we turned the shares into the average for the past 12 months, we would lose a lot more than what we decided to do. That was the question, Mr Theocharis, remember when we talked about it, where we did not convert them, and so we won from Eurobank where we did not need to turn them and we had a haircut from the national, but the whole is much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u70	Conversion? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u71	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What do you prefer? You'd rather turn them into the price of the last 12 months or we'd rather have told the price he'd get out of the books and where he'd close. Because you know that what we did was won by the Greek people. It won - I think it was the question that I asked Mr Theochari - over 1.3 billion more than your own law, which was the conversion of the average over the last 12 months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u72	What conversion? We got a dividend.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u73	So the privileged shares process was that we won and because we had shares now, we can control the banking system and we kept shares with veto.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u74	We got a dividend.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Stavura, you have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u76	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u77	Leave it, Mr. Voridis, that's not the criminal law he's talking about now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u78	When one asks at what price we have to convert it or should have turned it, and someone else, Mr. Stakoura, tells him if we get dividends, me and you are going to tell him or answer the question or you don't say anything. And you and me in the amphitheater, that's what we're talking about. If you want to answer the question. If you don't want to ask any more questions that have nothing to do with it. Was it in the interest of the Greek people that this decision not to convert it or was it not? Clear words. If we have a dividend or don't have a dividend, I think it's some poor student who either didn't understand the question or doesn't want to answer the question. So simple and clear! Now let's go to the other question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u79	What does "poor" student mean? The one who doesn't have any money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u80	Poor means a student who's not good. Metabolism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u81	Okay. Poor spirit says. Okay, we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u82	Poor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u83	Poor spirit, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u84	Well, I think we can tell you how much Greek participation has been reduced. I remind you of the importance of maximising with restrictions, that we cannot have it all, that at Piraeus Bank - to give an example - the Greek shareholders are 39.7%, the EBRD and IFS are 3.4%, foreign institutions are 30.4% and the CFS is 26.4%. Say it now in patriots? Greek participation is 66.4%, participation by foreigners is 33.5%. Total domestic investors account for around 66%. A total of 57% is held by domestic investors. The corresponding figures for Greek investors in Alpha Bank and Eurobank are 42% and 30% respectively. These are the numbers when you want to attract foreign investors and have Greek shareholders and CFS can have some control. I'm telling you again what I said at the beginning that we are maximizing ourselves with restrictions. It is not possible to criticise us and that we are not Greek and that we have not attracted foreign investors. Not to take your time, we can say too much about everything you said, but I have a second language. I want to conclude a matter. Can you tell me - and I read it - a foreign literature and articles outside Greece that say it was a failure to recapitalisation? I can hear Mr Karathanasopoulos saying to me 'The big chapter, the Financial Times, the Wall Street Journal', will certainly be said. But can you tell me the analyses you have that it was a failure? Why do all the newspapers with financial interest say it was a very successful recapitalisation? Why is everyone saying it was a very big victory that we decreased to 5.7% rather than spending more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u85	Because they put less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u86	No one has triumphed, but I think that the criticism you are making is inconsistent with the comments I have heard and the holidays I am even more convinced. Your comments confirm the confidence I have that you're really bored of being here. It was something you picked up in December, and you said now that we'd say something stupid to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u87	What are you talking about? You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u88	If we start answering that look, he won't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u89	Well, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u90	After you interrupted me 15 thousand times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u91	Yeah, but we didn't talk about bullshit. The stupid ones are coming now! Now see what you have to hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Voridis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u93	Let's get it back what he said to have a good climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u94	I'll take it back. It was a rhetorical exaggeration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u95	Does the House agree that Mr. Theocharis should precede...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u96	...especially you, Mr. Dendia, why are there pre-conferenceal procedures, as you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u97	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-eight students and students and two teachers from the 6th General School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theocharis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President, and I thank the House for giving me permission. Let me start with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. I saw her a little dizzy by what the Minister said. There's no reason to be dizzy. It was the pentossal that the Minister was dancing. He already told us. Private investors had dulls and said that if it's not that price, we don't come, if it's the other you're gonna lose billions. He finally preferred to lose only 1.4 billion from the National and FBB and not lose more, which could lose 700 more from Eurobank. That's what the Minister told us. Ladies and gentlemen, the country continues and is sinking governance in uncertainty, as problems go beyond it. On the eve of Schengen, the country is at risk, and it runs to prevent the ultimatums of border closure. Public revenue went outside the initial objectives despite tax increases and, of course, changes in the budgetary targets to show the figures better. They announced 98% absorption in the NRP and the Commission came to show what the reality is, that is, it is 67.9%, as the government removed works such as "INFECT" from the denominator, to hide that absorption is so low and so it announces, but cannot be hidden. The Ministry of Development is delaying the settlement of the issue of red loans, creating enormous concerns of economic survival in thousands of households and small and medium-sized enterprises. You don't even know which farmer to see, not solve their problems. So the uncertainty and the environment of your policy, ladies and gentlemen, is quite reminiscent of the first half of 2015. How far are you going to be? Soon you won't have any money for both the IMF and for wages and pensions. You will reach this existential dilemma. And what are you going to do? Three options. The first is not to pay the IMF. In this case, of course, the Minister for Finance is excluded from any possibility of an agreement being reached. The second is not to pay the public wages in full, to give, for example, 30%, and the remaining 70% in three-year bonds, to pay with these TECs and tax. Of course, if that happens, we'll have the absolute chaos. We all understand that, and I hope you will consider it, but do not try. Your third choice is elections. We'll probably see you pick this third option. But what environment? In accumulated civil and economic fatigue since the events of 2015. What's the result of the negotiation? The increase in the risk and risk of the Greek economy, which was estimated at the price of Greek bonds, the financing costs of banks, the removal of deposits from the banking system. Your negotiating strategy has led to restrictions on capital movements, your choice, according to the statements made by your officials and of course Mr Varoufakis. With the economy in suffocation, service loans increased this summer close to EUR 130 billion. The depreciation of the Greek banking system also made it necessary to recapitalise the Greek banking system, the second in three years. Prior to the recapitalisation, the stock exchange value of the Greek banks fell sharply to EUR 1.8 billion, when in June 2013 it was at EUR 29 billion. At the same time, share capital increases were made with huge discounts in their stock exchange values, valuing the banks to be recapitalised at EUR 770 million. The huge discount depleted the old shareholders, lowered the participation of the CFSB in banks by 33%, 25%, 11% and 2.5% for EIB, Piraeus Bank, Alpha and Eurobank respectively, and allowed new shareholders with just 5 billion euros to acquire control over the entire banking system. Already, by letter to the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs - Mr Balaurras is here - since 20 November I asked for information on the question of recapitalisation by the administration of the Financial Stability Fund. In that letter I said that the recapitalisation of the banks is not itself a board of salvation for their survival. It is worth noting here that on 30-11 I requested the deposit of the opinion report by the financial advisor of the CFS, in the recent increases in the share capital of the systemic banks. According to the n. The HFSF also provided information on the amount of the loan to the HFSF and on the amount of the loan to the HFSF and the amount of the loan to the HFSF. The exact expression in the law was: ‘It may accept the price of the tender book provided it has received an opinion from the independent consultant’. Twenty days later, with n. 4346/2015, "may accept" became "acceptable", nullifying the importance of the report. The reply from the Ministry of Finance and the CFS was that "the management bodies of the fund have a duty of confidentiality on the affairs of the fund and are bound by professional secrecy and, therefore, the reports cannot be given". If the National Representation cannot see the report, then who can see it? Why did two legislative changes take place in such a short time? Why does he refuse the fund and the ministry to inform? Today, three and a half months after the third recapitalisation, the prices of the four systemic banks decline from 32.5% to 60% in Attica 70%. The main shareholder, CSMEDE, has invested 650m euros in three increases. Today's valuation of its share is EUR 122 million. Engineer's money is gone. The EEAS, the airport and so on, have suffered enormous damage. The European authorities are already investigating how the capital increase has been made. Mr Karamanlis told us that it was - unprecedented - with more than 15% of the stock market value to increase the share capital. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the banking system continues to be difficult. The government has not yet cleared up the landscape with non-performing loans. Mr Draghi also pointed it out in his recent hearing in the European Parliament. Of course, the reluctance to move to insurance, tax, reforms creates uncertainty about the first assessment, uncertainty in relation to financial gaps, public debt service, budget implementation and red loans, of course. The IMF clearly said: "The red loans are sold at funds or we are going to recapitalise and thus cut deposits." Are you still proud that only 5.5 billion dollars were given to the banks, instead of "bucking" the banks with the 25 billion that were there? Now they're blackmailing you with a deposit haircut. You filled the gun yourself and gave it to the opposite side. You walk without a plan, with only an ally of your panic about the consequences your own policies create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, can I have the floor for just a minute, to fix something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u101	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u102	Eurobank's preference shares are 950 million and not 700 million. I just need to fix it. I'm sure Mr. Theocharis too would not want to make a mistake about 30%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u103	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u105	Minister, we have become accustomed to you in this Chamber, first and foremost, to being more reluctant and, also, to a Jacobinism and a neo-marxist fanaticism, which I must observe that you were missing today, along with the cheer. I imagine that this is due to the question of the Members of the New Democracy, but also to your - with your permission - complete inadequacy of the answer we have received today. If I need to codify the government position, as you said, first of all, you have the basic question asked by my fellow Members: who is responsible for having to go to a third recapitalisation? So you said here that this is why the second recapitalisation, which was not sufficient, is to blame, and the fact of the red loans, the number of which has been increased, is also responsible. In both of the things you say, Minister, you are largely disgusted by reality. First of all, I would like to state here in the minutes the conclusion of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, Brussels 2015, which expressly states: ‘There are substantial trends in Greece, which is used by the uncertainty on the economic and financial policies of the Greek authorities over the last half year’. Obviously this refers to the things that you do in your government. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I do not need to produce any European document, because your own chief, Prime Minister Tsipras, on 29-6-2015 proudly stated: "The people are not failing, but the banks." He did ask rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen: 'What does our culture have to do with the banks?' I'm filing it in the Minutes. If, however, we accept that for any reason by mistake, the Prime Minister was saying this, you would also allow me to present the statements made by the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, who clearly admits to "SKAI" on 25 July 2015, almost at the same time as the Prime Minister, and says: "We have shut down as the last negotiating weapon." I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the way in which the government saw the banks, I do not see much room for exoneration of the present government. But let's also go to the minor reasoning of the defenseist claim. Excuse me for using terms of law, but it has a meaning. I don't do it by chance. Red loans. What does Mr. Chakalotos say about the red loans? They increased - he says - overly red loans. Yes, Mr. Chakatte, that's right. What are you doing? First of all, you say that it was the previous government's fault that he did nothing. That's not true. We passed in November - I tabled the arrangement - Mr.4307/2014 for red loans. We lost the election after about two months. Didn't the law make you? Wasn't the law enough? Very nice, to have a new, better time. After all, you have declared to all tons and to all that you do not have to deposit in the Law Nines, to Law No.4307/2014, any excuse. The next minister from me, Mr Skrekas, had prepared both the templates and sent them to the banks so that those who want to be subject to the law can deposit the relevant documents. So the government said: “We don’t need to. We will bring about better regulation." For one year the government has not brought any rules. Or rather the only regulation he has brought is Mr.4354/2015, almost twelve months later, with which he did? You know that. He gave Hedge funds the opportunity to purchase loans from the banking system. This is the power of the government. So, on the one hand, on the other hand, your supplementary claim, or on the other, you do not know the reality - which I doubt - or you hide the reality, which I suspect is the case. It seems to me that you have tabled something else here, which - you know - we did not know and we are interested in it and we are keeping it. It's also in the Minutes. You dealt with the issue of the value of the shares and rejected the book value because you said that, in your judgment, there would be no investors in the book value.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u106	All the people we asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u107	So you are clearly saying that we sold the shares below book value, under the value of books, because that was the only way to bring investors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u108	That's how we sold, we didn't turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u109	We're coming here now and we're talking. What was the private sector, Minister, who has tried to take part in this recapitalisation? You blamed us earlier. You told one of my colleagues to tell you if we in the European People's Party are making formalities against the role of hedge funds in the modern economy. I'm reversing it for you. What is your opinion, Minister, about the role of hedge funds in the modern economy? Since when do you welcome the hedge funds in the modern economy? I've read a lot of your articles. I think what I've read was written with Mr. Lasco. Christos Lascos, if I remember. I do not remember, ladies and gentlemen, a single reference by the Minister for Hedge funds. On the other hand, I remember reports by the Minister against capital, against the rich, the way in which we are going to travel to communism, but now - I have to say - not a violent change, but a wider persuasion of the electorate and society. It's all good, but you haven't told us anything about the hedge funds. When did you in the government of SYRIZA become lovers of Hedge funds, Minister? And since when will you tell us that it is positive for a country's banking system, the only ones who appear to be involved in a recapitalisation being hedge funds? When did that get positive? If you are kind enough to give us a tradition of this, then we in the Group of the European People's Party too should appreciate it accordingly. Because it is obvious that nemarxism has exceeded every logical limit and is now moving to hyperrealism, as a new confrontation of reality and the economy. At the end of the day, instead of a balance sheet, we will deposit poetic collections at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u110	Lakan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u111	Minister, where do you live? Excuse me for asking you directly, but where do you live? What society do you live in? What do you think SYRIZA - ANEL Government represents today for Greek society? To be a little familiar with each other. Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling a copy of the latest survey of the MRB trend with the following question: 'Species that most express Greeks for the present and future of the country'. He is obviously referring to Greece of SYRIZA - ANEL Government. If I were to ask the Minister what word he would say, that would be 'enthusiasm','socialism', 'happiness', 'justice'. Greek society, Minister, responds a little differently. 64% of the Greek people are ashamed of you, with 49.3% of the Greek people, fearing for their future, 46.9% of the Greek people. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the same research, it evaluates your handling with 76.9% negative. Rather negatively, 16.7% of the Greek people and certainly negatively, so that we don't get rid of 60.2%. I put it to the Minutes, so that the Minister can see all the good things together. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, because here we have every little and various legal reasons for the role of transparency and that this government, in any case, may have some difficulties, but it serves transparency, that is its purpose and, of course, we in the New Democracy are bad people, who do not want transparency. But let's see what Greek society says about it. I will submit to you in the Minutes, Minister, another transparency which says that with little or no confidence, the Greek society is dealing with transparency issues, namely 73.7%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because, in any case, you also have one last impediment, that you are supposedly the party that cares about the weak and the non-existent, I will give you another transparency, to which 74% says that it does not consider you at all capable of dealing with social policy issues. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are yours, ladies and gentlemen, yours toward Greek society. But you know what's going on? I am afraid, again and I am sorry to say, that you are moving in the field of overrealism, which I deeply appreciate, both in poetry and in painting, but I am shaking him at political level. Because the Minister present in this Chamber, in a conversation with a colleague from the New Democracy, told him not much or much that Greece is liable to pay for the fact that the Greek citizen pays less taxes than he should pay and that, in any case, we are in a country in which there is no question if the tax rates increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u112	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u113	Here he is, he can fix it. I am presenting you today with an article in the newspaper 'ESTIA', which states that we are third to taxation in the European Union, just behind afflicted countries such as Sweden and Denmark, but without counting on the special taxes, the municipal fees and all the closest. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, if we take these into account, we are first, we are a paradox, and we have a government, which is prepared to do, it is, ladies and gentlemen, to increase taxation even further, as a road to economic development and as a way out of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, we always have to be honest and realistic. That's what we have to do. And we have to tell the truth in this Chamber. We, as a party, think that we have stood honestly and supported what helps the country, society and the people. We cannot, however, and we are no longer allowed to subscribe to government practice. You have created a total of solvent effects in the country either in the economy, in migration, in foreign policy or in any branch of government activity you can think. You have strengthened Turkey. You've made Skopje regulator. You have done something that no left-wing government would understand in its history: the issue of NATO. And not only NATO, but you have managed to bring NATO and exempt the Dodecanese to do the carving in Turkey. And not only did you manage the second unbelievable flight plan of the Prime Minister for supply to Rhodes and for Turkey not to take the Greek Prime Minister's aircraft to Rhodes. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] These things no one would ever think of doing in Greece. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is no joy at all, but with a sense of national responsibility I have to tell you one thing: to collect them and leave them. The Minister will also take his education leave, go to good, study what mistakes you have made and when he understands them with Mr Varoufakis, he comes back and gives us a briefing to see what happens to this 'first time left'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u117	Only for three seconds, Mr. President. I will respond politically to dentistry. I would like to clarify that what I have said about taxation did not tell a Member of the New Democracy. I have said this in my speech in the budget and I have tabled the figures, which show that taxes in Greece, as a percentage of GDP, are 1% less than the average in the European Union. And I said that the sovereign is not the level, but the broadening of the tax base. That's what I said. And I think it's right to say that, Mr. Treasury. Listen to the reasons right. It wasn't even gossip. I don't think you should question that. This is the figure, 1% less than the average.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u118	The incomes are the same, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u119	Mr Balaurras has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, you will forgive me, but because there has been a confusion with the services, I have been given the floor for twelve minutes, I will try to limit it, but give me a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u121	It's easy, 50% cut. Like the government, the Minister knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u122	That's right, we're going to a talk bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u123	No, make an effort to be close to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u124	Yeah, yeah, as long as I can. If your question, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, were present, I would say that you are scratching on the chop glass. But you did it on 3 December and came now, so you are forgiven from this side. But today, with the positions which I have heard and because Mr Denkias was very prone to painting and modern art, I have to say to him that what we have heard today from colleagues in the New Democracy is a reference to dantaiism. Why, Mr. Treasury and Mr. Stakoura, are they referring me to dwarfing? Why, who really created the situation of bank run in Greece? Wasn't it your government? Before the crisis, the deposits were 245 billion. In June of '12 it was 156 billion. In July it was 129 billion. Where is SYRIZA's huge responsibility for the bank Run? When, in a period of succession, did you create such a criminal situation for deforestation of bank deposits? Why did they fall from December of '14 to January of '15 before taking over, that is, we bank deposits by 25 billion? Why? The answer is simple, colleagues of the New Democracy. I remind you of the statement by your Prime Minister, Mr Samara - who was Prime Minister, when he made this statement - that if SYRIZA comes, the banks will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u125	That's right. The banks are closed. Is it Mr. Samaras' fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u126	It was the country's Prime Minister before SYRIZA arrived, and three to four months ago he said the banks would close. This creates immediately bank Run conditions and beyond, in fact, 25 billion left at that time, from December 2014 to January 2015. Very simple, Mr. Treasury. Adonis Georgiadis before the elections said "I will take my money if SYRIZA comes out". So here's the messages you've sent out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u127	Georgiadis shut it down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u128	Mrs Bakoyannis said, of course, that banks will close the days of the Holy Spirit. Who encouraged the extremes to the right and left, which led us to the capital controls? Since the Minister has not said so in his dentistry - in New Democracy's question about Finansbank, I would like to say a sentence: Apart from Mr Stylianides, and MODY'S, he considered it a successful sale. Let's go to the recapitalisation. What was the role and usefulness of the banks, all those years that you have ruled? They played their traditional role, i.e. they provided liquidity to the banking system, or played with the new, supposedly-financial products, that is, they played a gambling party and gave offshore consumer loans, sea-lovings to entrepreneurs who were overpricing their costs, to make their money out to the media or to the media, that is, to the channels and the other media? The loans of 406 million - at least - were granted without guarantees and are they all red? The two of your own parties, which you co-administered, what's the amount they owe? New Democracy owes 210 million and PASOK 150 million and all these are red loans. I remind you of the current President of Parliament's complaint in October 2014. And from the top you have voted, Mr Tindemans and Mr Stakoura, along with the PASOK colleagues the impossibility of State aid. This is what this is about, that is, there has been an inconceivable party, an inconceivable pillaging of Greek wealth, and you're already talking! Red loans. How did we get to, Mr. Stakoura, at 100 billion? In December 2014, shortly before the elections we took the government, they reached 40% of the total, while in June 2015 they were 42%. In other words, the destruction of the country by SYRIZA has very little increased red loans. So, did we create them? They have been created - because the flow does not suddenly stop - by the policy of internal devaluation, which you have imposed on the Greek people. Could he stand up - to go to the recapitalisation now - any bank? It would be a global event if a bank could continue to exist with 40%, that is with more than half in some banks, with red loans. Your recapitalisations - and I shall end, Mr President - have kept the sinful administrations of the banks. The public gave, beyond the 5 billion pounds of Haloskoufi, and 39 billion more over the period 2012-2013. What happened to that money? Where did they go? The United States, which you have as a korunk, and they coerced the banks and tossed the administrations. There was no right to vote in the state, which gave the Greek people's money to save the banks in your own policy. In addition, you gave a gift to the sale of the Agricultural Bank and the Post Bank to those banks that were bankrupt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please give me a minute, Mr President, so that I can move on and conclude. I'm on my way because we had this problem. Who waited today with the recapitalisation coming about 5.7 from private individuals when you created the virtual Armageddon with your screams? We made multiple successful moves and even the overwhelming majority of cooperative banks and Attica were saved. You didn't want it, of course you didn't believe it. Today, we have the right to vote in the banks. There is also the possibility of evaluating their administrations. At the same time, we took it - the Minister said - the Cocos at a very high rate, when interest rates in the European Union - you know them - are negative. So within this suffocating framework of our creditors' surveillance has begun - and this is where we need to stress - the implementation of the parallel SYRIZA programme with a view to the weaker ones. The engine of corruption and the interlocutory, the triangle of sin, which was supported by the entire post-cultural framework, i.e. the media with permissions, and do not pay insurance funds, do not pay that, the banks, who played an important political game in cooperation with the political system - this is the triangle of sin - the lists that were hidden, which you still refused to receive. I remind you of the Borgians list that no one who was responsible for it will escape. Mr. Loverdo, don't laugh, because the Borgians list...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u129	I'm not laughing at that, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr Balaura, don't open such a dialogue. Your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. No, I'm not opening. 'Cause then we're going from dantism to futurism. But we want to put you in realism, Mr. Treasury. Because in the pitfall we've received, we're in the middle of it. He finally stopped having Grexit. Nor do you dare even mention the word 'Grexit'. And this is our success, it's not yours. We have succeeded worldwide in not saying the word 'Grexit' again. We're moving on to debt settlement, so that the road to the implementation of our own program, the Left program, can be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr. Karakostas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u133	I think, Mr President, that no debate can be held on the question of the recapitalisation of the banks, without first referring to the great scandal of the parties' sea-saving scandal. This is, of course, the definition of the interface between the economic and political situation. We therefore have every reason to claim that the triangle of interlocutory is the following: banks, political parties, the media. Indebted canals and publishers do not survive simply, but they reap thanks to the provocative lending of their businesses by the banks, even though the latter know that these loans will not be repaid. Why then are these loans granted to specific entrepreneurs? Because they know that this year, which will be left, will be paid again by the Greek people. The political establishment encourages this huge theft against the Greeks, because it is the media and their well-paid lies that keep them in power. Are there responsibilities of the bankers granting the loans? Yes or no? Are the governments responsible for allowing this robbery to the detriment of the Greek people? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Loverdo, did you start your speech now? You're right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u135	Am I saying so loudly, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u136	Carry on, Mr. Caracosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u137	There have been three recapitalisations and what is the result for the Greek taxpayer? There was absolutely no relief for the Greeks, and huge profits for the bankers, who were never punished and on the contrary enjoy a series of challenging privileges. Most of them are the fact that you have legally memorized the bankers. Why is the New Democracy and the rest of the supposed constitutional bow cut both for the banks' recapitalisations and not for the recapitalisation of the insurance funds? What have you done on the pretext of recapitalising the banks? You've slapped the insurance funds. That is what you have done. The question therefore is not what the New Democracy is asking, which is why it has delayed the recapitalisation of the banks, but why this money has not been given to the real economy, namely the productive powers of the Greek economy, such as farmers and Greek businesses, which you are jointly leading to extinction today. The answer to this question is: Carry the weight of the remulsion of your pieces of dogfish and your gruesome party state on the backs of the Greeks and Greeks and the characteristic is that every time you do this, you put the terrorist dilemma: an agreement - that is, a memorandum - or bankruptcy. So, in the Greek Parliament, you are setting up a frustration of who best preserves the interests of the bankers and their impunity, at the same time as thousands of Greeks have killed themselves and millions of others have not to feed their children. The Golden Dawn has not been reconciled and will not be reconciled with the political, economic and mediator establishment. That's why you're fighting us with rabies. That's why you hate us. But in vain, your troubles. Let us hate you, as long as you fear us and fear us, because you know that we nationalists will do what we say: the thieves in prison, for the Greek people to breathe freely again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Loverdo, now you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u139	I shall start with something that does not concern the timely question, but it is about the beheading of the President of the Congregation of Music, Mr Manos, of a man who has been struggling for six years to keep the Congregation of Music standing. He finally managed to convince the governments and the last government with Mr Baltas gave a solution. We strengthened it and voted for it in the House and then 'has been eaten'. With Mr. Sfakianakis, the same thing happened. Whatever stands out and goes well, not to exist, to put someone else there. The one who went well, not to appreciate him. This is a maliciousness of the Greek public, which continues with this government. The efforts made to mitigate it have now been abandoned. And I deplore what has happened, at the same time expressing my congratulations to Giannis Manos for what he has done. Minister, I think - and I apologise if I am mistaken - that you have not answered the second question, which asks you what you think of the sale of Finansbank, whether it is a good investment or not. We as PASOK then, in 2005-2006 - when it was officially condemned. I had kept reservations from that conviction and as Minister after, in 2010, I apologized to Mr. Arapoglou. It was a very good energy. So when I read the honourable Members' question, I was curious to expect your answer. I think you didn't give an answer. I would ask you very much to do so in your dentistry. It's a question of questioning. Minister, usually here in your speeches you talk about football. Today, when I listened to you, my mind came three thousand feet of style. The track is another thing. I remember Spyros Consort, an athlete who had participated in the Olympians, and the way he screwed up the barrier of the lake. The way they exaggerate this obstacle is very characteristic. Spyros Coarseaurus was stepping aside and leaving. Others did it differently. You, if you were an athlete of three thousand feet of style, you would have fallen into the lake and fought to get out like this, a patent, because you couldn't cross the barrier. For the recapitalisation that they ask you and the course of developments these thirteen months, you removed your period and went back. I wonder how this can be done by the Minister of Economy and Finance, not by an analyst or by a suitor who says what he wants. From you who, when you speak, listen to the whole sector of the economy! Whenever and when you talk. We have, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in the SYRIZA-ANEL period, characterised - for the needs of the question - since the first period of Varoufakis, in which you have also criticised it. In that we have had total immobility against the economy, GREXIT, which has been avoided 'dock and outer', rather than hair, I am clairvoyant! We had come out of the funding programme by calling for a referendum, a bank holiday, a capital control - known things - and not a crack but a break in the basic features of a banking system that should be upright. We had a breach in solvency, a breach in liquidity. I mean, a direct threat to the banking system. The recapitalisation comes after the third inappropriate memorandum, without law. I would stress that the two former were legally transparent and visible, because the laws had been preceded. It comes after this 'period of Varoufakis number 1', the recapitalisation - I say again - by a law that was passed after four days after its vote was revised at some points. With 5 billion we get the banks and we have a recapitalisation action that is detrimental to the shareholders, to the public and to the real economy. And after that, despite the will of the current Minister, a second 'Varoufakida', a second period of economic immobility, has evolved. And I call upon the Minister present, because I was present at the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs when he said "if the evaluation is not closed by May, I live!" It disturbs him - and of course it is - the stillness of the economy and the delays. We therefore have continued economic real estate, we have further reductions in the value of shares, we have further reductions in the public share in banks through the CFS and, finally, we have retained capital control. I would like to remind you here: I was pre-electionally with Mr Stathakis in a speech at the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, where he and we, when the capital controls will be lifted. And he said: 'As a Minister, I tell you in six months, as a professor of the economy, I tell you that I do not know'. As a professor of finance, he was right. He doesn't know, as no one knows. We are still living in a phase where these restrictions are active, further than investment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is one: the economic progress towards growth was violently halted thirteen months ago and the increase in all cuts and taxation was allegedly counterproductive. This is the SYRIZA experiment. Whatever anyone says, you have an economy that after seven years of recession climbs towards growth, achieves the first positive pace at the end of 2014. According to forecasts, with the first of the European Central Bank, we went for 3% in 2015 and 3.6% in 2015. And in 2016 it closes SYRIZA's first year of governance, with ELSTAT giving us a 0.6% recession! We have a recession, then, again. They did not like the way to development, but they wanted "short steps forward". We therefore have a recession again, increasing all cuts, increasing taxation. What experiment was this to which the Greek people were lured?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u140	Speaking of sports terms, there is a red card for time, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I am closing my speech in this limited time with one point: it is not only the recapitalisation, but also the course of developments after it and in terms of the price of shares and in terms of the property of the CFS in banks, which has been impaired, and in terms of the overall course of the Greek economy and in terms of the hesitation of each investor. Because we have this political immorality, which all the problems go towards the future and the Minister says that, the slower we are, and that, if we arrive in May, we are burning. And stillness in the Greek economy - and every reasonable person understands this immorality and expects someone to see conditions of stability to invest - does too much harm. We close this second phase of economic real estate without knowing where we are going, without knowing when the insurance issues end, when the tax issues will end, without knowing when the assessment will be closed. Everything's in the air!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u142	Set a perfect one, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u143	To conclude, I should like to say this: an economic crime has been committed, with a moral and political dimension. I would not say 'legislative' because that is not my role. A lot of people talk about them too. This political, economic and moral crime is lasting. It's not deleted. After the first period of Varoufakis you took the country out of the deadlock. When you speak, all businessmen, small, medium-sized and large, listen to you all. Each speech of the Minister of Finance is a speech - a station on the course of the economy and as you speak - I tell you it really - and your government is doing and expressing itself, the increased insecurity is growing. Do something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and two educational sessions from the 6th General School of Thessaloniki (B' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, there is no need for any particular effort to draw the conclusion, following the process, that the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues the same policy of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. From this point of view, it is obvious that the dismay of the New Democracy with this question that it has put before it is also evident. For this very reason, the Minister also found fertile ground to criticise the New Democracy from the point of view of neoliberalism, that it is not as liberal as it should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u146	As far as he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u147	Yeah. In this way, of course, the Minister also made another blush to himself: he went far beyond SYRIZA's previous position on a public financial system when he was going to take over the government. In fact, it defended the choice of bank control through the recapitalisation of private capital. Not that it would change something if the banks went through public control. We as a JRC, Minister, have no illusions about the role of the financial system. It is the heart of the capitalist system. For this very reason, it is the focus not only of the current government but also of the previous governments and, more generally, of the European Union itself, of the international imperialist organisations, the course of the whole financial system and the black clouds, which are above the banks and, in particular, the very large ones, such as Deutsche Bank and others. And precisely because it is not a simple parameter of the system but its heart, the situation and developments in the financial system are, for the current government, one of the main stations of the new roadmap for the development of the economy announced by the government. The recapitalisation of the banks along with the management of the red loans, the first assessment and the management of the state debt are the main three stations that will help us to get out in the “extinction”. This is, of course, a "accuracy" of capitalist development based on the ruins left by the policies of the memoranda, regarding the working and trade union rights of the working class, on a ground where the action and immunity of the monopolistic groups in the name of the armoring of competitiveness and the defence of capitalist profitability is the main issue. However, this course is not a given one, since the clouds are densing on the basis of the assessments made by the various imperialist organisations at a time when, as they estimate, there is a slowing down and continuous negative revision of the rates of the international capitalist economy with strong concern for the emergence of a new, synchronised and even deeper capitalist crisis, either on the grounds of a state bankruptcy or because of the situation that has the overall international financial system. In this respect, therefore, and due to the developments in the international financial system, it is particularly likely that a new recapitalisation of the Greek banks will be needed in the next few years. Of course, our criticism of either the current government or the previous governments on the question of recapitalisation comes from a different perspective. We have no agony - and we sincerely call it - about whether the financial system will be saved and the capitalist system as a whole. On the contrary, we want this system, which is unfair, profitable, to be ruptured through the organized struggle of the peoples, so that there can be a more overall break and overthrow. So the criticism we are making is that the rescue of the financial system took place at the expense of the Greek people, the working class and the rest of the people's population, not only because, in order for the recapitalisation to take place, there was a prerequisite for the implementation of a series of tough, unjust, barbaric, anti-popular measures, but also because this recapitalisation led to an increase in the State debt of EUR 39 000 000 from the first recapitalisation and another EUR 5.5 billion from the second, from your recapitalisation. At least 39 000 million have been destroyed and the same risk of depletion exists for the 5.5 billion. So the state debt is increasing, which the taxpayers, the populace, will be asked to pay. Secondly, our criticism is that there has been absolutely no care in this process of recapitulating and saving the financial system for highly indebted people's households, no care at all for the excessively indebted poor farms, for the highly indebted professionals and the self-employed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is a specific proposal from the JRC that, after many credits, both the previous governments and your government had rejected for brave haircuts on the funds owed by the highly indebted people's layers. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] On the contrary, on your own government - not that the previous ones had protected - the pullover of the protection of highly indebted households began, and now, of course, your partners, and in particular the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund in particular, are calling for the total liberalisation of the management of red loans to go through almost all at the hands of the hedge funds. Finally, there has been absolutely no concern about the situation of workers in the financial system since collective agreements, industrial relations, have been overthrown. Of course, there is a great risk in the next few years that there will be a new barrage, a new wave of staff redundancies from the domestic financial system and a concentration in less and less hands of the financial sector. In this respect, the JRC has expressed its disagreements. This policy is not only going to lead the people to the illusion, but also requires - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the people and the working class will continue to be sacrificed to the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, thank you. I am watching carefully and I would seek a ray of optimism from a debate that is taking place on the Greek economy, because the mirror of the economy is the banks. Unfortunately, however, I cannot say that I am being wiser than the debate, but neither am I going to get the optimism I have expected. It is a fact that there have been timeless errors in the Greek economy and we have reached a level that may be non-existent. We do not even know what to do! In the Chamber we face the transfer of responsibilities, which I always watch very carefully, Mr President: is the New Democracy to blame? Is it PASOK? Is it the SYRIZA, the ANELs? Who's to blame? But they never pay. The Greek people pay the price, they pay the bill, according to what they call it. So I want to say the following in detail. The 2012 recapitalisation was a success, or was it a precursor, a precursor of adverse effects on the Greek economy and society? I would like to remind you that in the 2012 recapitalisations, the government bond haircut had taken precedence, but who? The ones that the Greek domestic and social security institutions had. Today, in a short time, we expect a heavy, difficult insurance bill, which will worsen the position of retired people and deprive them of rights. In the four years that have passed, a solution has never been sought but a right-sharing solution. I note that the 2012 recapitalisation has had a cost - it was said by my colleagues on all sides - about 45 billion, which are not there today. Here is another question, that I did not hear a number about the costs of the Greek state's losses, how much the public debt is, how much did the private individuals who lost the value of the 2012 recapitalisation, if there is a possibility of recovery or have to be considered to have been zeroed. From an analysis that I have read - I do not claim any more specific economic knowledge - it will be necessary to reach the bank's assessments at such illegitimate heights after twenty - thirty years - to speak in accounting terms only - where the losses of recapitalisation and the first and second, and I am also afraid of the third, Mr President, because the omens are not good, are not optimistic. The Greek economy is still aroused. Deinvestment in the country continues, deposits in savings do not exist, there is no possibility of saving a single minute. The funding from the European mechanism has been frozen, it is over, and we are moving into waters, where we do not know whether we can swim. Are we gonna sink or stay with the drowned man's hand and end up at the bottom? We can't answer that. But I would like to focus on something else, which is damaging and I see that it has not been dealt with in the Chamber: the famous investment of Finansbank. So I would remind you that Finansbank has come up with a price of EUR 4.1 billion, if I am not mistaken. That was the buy-out price. Again, even though it was made a success, it will only bring no damage and sell it to anyone, as was announced at the price of EUR 2.6 billion. Why am I saying this, Mr President? The Turkish economy, whether we like it or not, has never seen Greece with good eyes - like the country, Turkey - but at the same time, they have never seen this Greek investment with good eyes. You know what happened? It was not possible for the Greek bank to record any dividends, nor will it ever be able to return and, not least, for ten years that this investment has been maintained, there is no return. So today, sold around 50% of the value paid by the National Bank, account for the loss of interest - which was neither dividends nor interest - to draw the conclusion as to what was the actual loss. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I want to say something else about something the Minister told us and didn't convince me. He said Cocos would yield 8.1% and that this would mit the damage. I don't know! I'll ask something else, I'll do a reversal. Did the privileged "Haloskouf shares" - these known as the last point of the question - ever give the Greek state the 10% interest rate, which was then legislated, or that 10% was simply booked as a book value? And the banks know, since 2010, they did not give dividends, since they had not been able and had been banned because of the memorandum. So do we have a huge loss cumulation right now, which at the end of the road will be multiples of today's day and we will not be able to deal with anything, because there will be further damages every day and there will be no relief? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say something else and I shall end, Mr President. I'll beg for your tolerance. It is written daily that business loan arrangements will be made, red loan arrangements will be made. We still have no idea what the framework is in which it is going to be done, because we see that there is also a rivalry between the new owners, the shareholders of the banks - I would remind you that with one minute these shares were purchased and it was forced to join every thirty or fifteen to get a nominal value of 0.30 cents - and of the HFSF, the Greek Government that will not give an answer. Because the Greek Government has legislated the transfer to funds - the god making money - of EUR 100,000 - I said in my speech that it is a medium-sized apartment in the center of Athens the value of EUR 100,000 - which will be the minimum capital of a distress fund operating in Greece. Let me tell you that I can recommend, with this chapter, a company like this and get rich in the end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Well, and this rivalry creates great concerns. The banks want to manage those loans themselves, of which they will seek to collect part. Distress funds want the redemption at 8% to 10% to dissolve, cut, take over. And the Greek Government has not yet placed itself. In fact, I read days ago that the operation of the Governor of the Bank of Greece is expected. He heard in newspapers that he was published. I have to admit my weakness, I didn't see it. To conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, I must admit that I am now leaving pessimistic from this debate. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Carras. We're entering the second grades. Please, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u151	Minister, we don't do chores if you don't understand. The whole New Democracy Parliamentary Group has signed this question. It's a very serious matter for us. And the New Democracy has proved to be playing its part with responsibility. In the recapitalisation, in the context of its creation, we acted responsibly a few months ago. But what was your attitude in the recent past? I remember those seats to vote against everything, recapitalisations and the 555 million - which I will come back - of privileged shares. You therefore have personal responsibility for your attitude and path. I have a firm will that I must serve the public life of the country in measure and moderation, away from populism and elitism. But I wonder, after your current position, because you spoke about comparing negotiating results, is the Greek citizen better today or a year ago? Should you take a training leave to investigate it? Do you have to take an educational leave to investigate your statements that the policy of the memorandum constantly ensures gifts to big capital and to bankers? Did you talk about education leave to study the fact that two years ago in this Chamber on 6-3-2014, did you say that SYRIZA insists that the banks be placed under public and social control? That's what you said! Are banks under almost complete private control today? And right! Fortunately! Will today, on a proposal from you, any public participation in the banking system also become part of the new Emigration Fund? Have you made such a suggestion? We should find out. Apart from surpriseing us, your objections do not help to strengthen the country's course. I would like to make your statements on the role of the banks you have been saying in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also come to a number of brief points. You questioned the sole responsibility that your Government has for the need for new recapitalisation. We have used data, we have used documents, and our parliamentary representative has provided the European Commission's report. You're nothing. Only political flaming! Since you do not have enough of our crises about the government's responsibilities, since the European Commission's report does not suffice to do so, since the passage I have tabled from the last monetary policy report of the Bank of Greece, which also confirms the correctness of our positions and disproves your positions, I am presenting you with two other documents. One is the report of the European Central Bank in October 2015 on recapitalisation, which claims that new capital needs are due to the deterioration of the macroeconomic environment in 2015 and in the coming years - does this remind you of something? - the new financial measures by the Left Government, capital restrictions, the reduction in the value of collateral, the expected increased flow of new risk-taking loans, i.e. data generated in 2015. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Isn't that enough for you? Last week was in Greece, Mrs Daniel Noui. I would remind you that she is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the European Central Bank. Do you know what he said on June 7, 2015? He said, therefore, that the Greek banks have still to be fierce and the Greek supervisory authorities have done a good job in recent years to recapitalise and restructure the financial system. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, Minister, everyone has understood it. Time to accept it! All the responsibility of the last recapitalisation and its terms belong to your Government. And I come to my second brief remark. You are often referring to the loss that the funds had from debt restructuring. Truly, the loss that the insurance funds and the CECF have today of their participation in the recapitalisations of non-systemic banks - for which I have not heard you say anything in your prototype - how much is it? I have doubts as to whether any of your members who have placed them on board are able to understand the potential risks they have made with this investment. Unless all of this joins the sphere of your vision for a parallel banking system. Really, what about this idea? In addition to all the things that all the speakers of the New Democracy have mentioned, the cost is very high for today's shareholders, since the price of the shares continues to fall. I would remind you that the Prime Minister in an interview on December 8, 2015, had said that the price of the national will rise. And it's coming up! Then it was 0.535. Today is EUR 0.16. But can't you well fall into either one prediction or an ex ante assessment of developments? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the economy has already paid very much for your assessments. At last, be careful! In the Minutes, I make the relevant statement from the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I come to the privileged shares and the 2008 law. 28 billion was given for the liquidity of the real economy. The 5 billion were privileged shares, and the rest were state aid and guarantees. I would remind you that these have increased very much in the future. What was the benefit - because we fell in love with it? The benefit to the state budget was EUR 4 billion over the period 2009-2014. In fact, we received EUR 555 million from preference shares at the end of 2012, when you, Minister, challenged that money! Not only did we get them, but you know very well, that in 2015 you did an act of Ministerial Council to get the money of the CFS, take them to the state to repos, find money to pay pensions because of the "creative ambiguity". So what we're telling you is that the state should continue to get the privileged shares or the banks to get the shares back, as the two credit institutions did. We didn't have to get to that point. I do not need to comment on what you said, that for the first time the issue of'red loans' has now been raised, you are being disproved by all the reports: 'BLACKROCK' of 2013, the Report of the European Commission and the European Central Bank in October 2014, the stress tests which have taken place, all of which confirm that'red loans' were within the planning. You have also made no comment on the return of bonds from the CFSF to the European Financial Stability Fund - I would remind you - for the 11 billion. Really, why? I would just like to point out here, which is something that I think will be a little interesting. According to the latest report of the CFSF, interest revenues due to the repayment of the bonds showed a decrease of 44 million in 2015. It is more of the expected benefits in your budget than the increase in the rate of income tax you want to impose on farmers this year. So don't ask yourself why all the productive forces of the place are in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Stavura, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u153	In conclusion, the Left Government trapped in ideologies, myths, hallucinations and endogenous contradictions, without political direction, plan and will led the banking system to the dawn. For the New Democracy, the government has a huge responsibility, firstly, because it has made it necessary to recapitalise the banks. Secondly, the delay in the adoption of the framework for its implementation. Thirdly, for the result of the recapitalisation of systemic banks. and, fourthly, for the recapitalisation process of non-systemic banks. The cost is great for the public, the funds, the IAEA, the employees, the taxpayers and the damage is huge for shareholders, small and large, Greek and foreign. These great responsibilities of the current government for this situation will be investigated and raised. Several damage has been suffered by the country for a long time by the ambiguities and 'grey zones' produced by the supposedly radical Left and not just by public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Stakoura. Mr. Voridis, please, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister's speech can be summarised as follows: Two lies, half truth and the rest of the delirium. And not even a delirium of majesty, because the Minister wants to speak to us in a teacher's style, as if here he forgets where he is addressing us. But, in any case, in order to end this, the style of a teacher - particularly a left-wing teacher - is not to comment on it better, what is the value of the left-wing teachers and what has been involved in the humanity process over time. The lies. What are the reasons why they made it necessary to recapitalise the Left? Previously, it didn't work. Seriously, didn't it work? And since it did not succeed then, after all, why in the summer of 2014 did the Greek banking system appear on European markets as the best investment opportunity? With recapitalisation and a comfortable pump of 8.5 billion from the markets, how were these found? With the short-term financing of the Greek banks, which was also the safest sample of their relief, which was done with zero dependence by ELA, regaining trade in the interbank market and in a pan-European regulatory framework almost penalising the international credit institutions. The total amount allocated to the second recapitalisation - if you remember correctly - after the PSI was 39 billion. Of these 13 had gone to clear up certain credit institutions and there were 26 billion left that went to the banking system. And the stock stock stock market then had gone to 34 billion. The sale of the shares of the Greek State was then in receipts of 20 billion. With a further increase in the stock market value, all the recapitalisation would have been fully completed without the slightest losses on the taxpayer. Where's this thing coming from you that there was a recapitalisation problem? What is the second reason, the second lie, which the Minister tells us? The most amazing thing, Mr President: do you know why the second recapitalisation was required? Because there was a risk. You didn't, did you? Didn't you get a hamburger that they were leaving the banks already at the risk of SYRIZA being elected? We did this, and we were at risk at the time the depositors went and raised their money, because you actually had shaped a grid and a political framework, which obviously any reasonable man made him withdraw his statements. We are the ones who have incited it - when we did so, you know what we have - the last week before the banks were closed, when we said that the closure of the banks is imminent. And then one week after they assured us that the banks, the government's liars, of course, shut down the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u156	Samaras didn't say the banks would close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u157	The government's lying one week before the bank closed, they assured the depositors that the banks would not close. That was the second lie You said, however, that we should also welcome and applaud half the truth here. What was the half-truth that the Minister said? I think the first thing is that, for the recapitalisation of the Left, it is also the Greek Government's battle against the evil European establishment. And then the delirium begins. That's the dangerous one. Now, do you seriously think - you, this one - have brought the poor to the center of politics? Do you now understand that the poor are represented by the policy you adopt? Are you serious about that? Do you realize that this is the way to socialism? You build him step by step? Bringing the hedge funds, making pension cuts, creating additional taxation, eliminating all productive processes, making the way to socialism? Yeah, we're on the move. Right, we're going to Heraklion via Thessaloniki. The odds are that the fuels won't even make it to Lamia, not go to Thessaloniki and go back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u158	The first one has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u159	The only suggestions, that's why I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u160	Please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is actually a regular delirium. It's not surrealism. Surrealism is a - let me say it - a strange illustration of reality. This is a delusional reason. Minister, you are a Memorandum Minister. Do you understand that? Serve the memorandum you have denounced as neoliberal and do nothing but it. If you do not hear it, read the criticism of your own, those who have remained consistent with your old announcements. Do not come here to pretend that you are serving the interests of the working class, which you have literally exterminated. You, now with these policies that you have implemented - with the increase in VAT, with the increase in taxes on wines, with the increases in taxation, with the reductions in pensions - are you serving the interests of the working class? Land and come to us. You serve a particular architecture, you have called it neoliberal and the worst is that because you don't believe it and you don't serve it well, and that's why you don't want it, and you don't believe it, while you are imposed and you have accepted to apply it, by changing and bringing the tops under it is you, you have lost your humour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u162	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u163	Because the mental stress of the Minister is obvious. He used to say some corn, he made some jokes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u164	He's still talking funny to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u165	Mr Balaura, no dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u166	Secrets in the ear, because here I see him every time he's strung psychologically. Soon we'll need special treatment. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mr Karamanlis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. I will be very brief, Mr President. I shall refer to two points from the speech by the Minister. First of all, we have not received a clear answer why the increase in the share capital of non-systemic banks, as the Attica Bank was given a premium, while the increase in systemic banks was given a huge discount, namely a huge discount. I mention four examples: The National Bank made the increase with a 93% discount, with Piraeus Bank with 85.7%, Alpha Bank with 34.4% and Eurobank with 52%. Does this have to do with the plan announced to us by Mr. Drasakis in November on a parallel banking system? What does that mean exactly? How will this parallel banking system work? Answers here we didn't get. A second point I would like to raise very briefly is the very interesting point you mentioned about Cocos. Two years ago the then "extreme" right government made an investment of 25 billion euros, thanks to which the banking system was also saved and at the same time the Greek state was found to own the majority of bank shares. After all, Mr Minister, it had also been in Great Britain and America because, with the privileged shares, the public would have had an opportunity to rebuild its mess. In other words, in a reasonable period of time, if we had not gone to the third recapitalisation, the Greek State could have gained from this investment it made. Today, this investment has been said by Mr Stakoras and others from New Democracy. It is worth 24.5 billion. So even if Cocos give you 5.7 billion, if you remove 5.7 billion, you'll still have a loss of 18.8 billion. So, we did not get answers to that. Your idea is such that while you do not want foreign investors, you bring the worst investors, those who do not invest in the banking system in the long term, but those who invest in the medium term. We wanted and we managed in 2013 to bring players to the Greek banking system, who had a long-term vision. So these questions, I think, remain unanswered and I think that the government's responsibilities are very great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened carefully to your speech. I will ask two questions, which I have raised in my prototype and have not been answered. The first question concerns your position on the parallel banking system and the Tsipras Kammenos Government's B plan, the plan that Mr Varoufakis said. I would really like to know what your position was then in the negotiations, if you believed in Plan B, and you tried to implement it, and just if it were a failure, as Mr Varoufakis said, and the button was not finally pressed. I want an answer, Minister, to this. I insist, really, very much. The second question which has not been answered, and I also want a clear answer, is this: there is the November agreement on the restructuring of the banking system. I insist: Will your government proceed to dismiss four thousand three hundred bank employees, yes or no? I think the question is clear. You're going to close bank branches over a hundred and thirty, as the deal says? So, that's what you think of growth? Finally, Minister, self-criticism - hours is an act of bravery. I would like to know, is there even a trace of self-criticism for the year of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks? Because the only thing we have heard lately is that, firstly, the opposition is to blame for the channels, it is to blame for the establishment, it is to blame for the profound conservative circles in Europe, now we hear that it is 'GOOGLE', and you will tell us that it is also Hatzipeter's fault. It is the government's fault, Minister, and if so, what is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and five teachers from the Elementary School of Nea Karyas Kavalas and from the Elementary School of Granada Zarkadis Pernis Kavalas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have half your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u172	I do not want to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Mr. Karagunis has the floor. You have the time of your protology to use in dentistry, that is, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm gonna need three minutes. Minister, it is truly impressive and unthinkable how bad it has been in the economy within a year. We understand - I heard you earlier - that you came to justify the unjustified. But the truth, Minister, cannot be hidden. You made the previous recapitalisation comparable. We achieved the previous recapitalisation because we had ruled out Grexit's heresy and brought the economy to growth. That's our big difference. You guys did exactly the opposite. And from there, of course, the problem begins, which we are discussing today. You brought us a step by step in point zero. I was listening to you earlier, and I really wondered if we were living in another country. Mr Dendias and Mr Staikoras have mentioned it, and all colleagues have mentioned it. Weren't you the ones who, in the context of your planning for the new communist revolution, announced and promised that you would be stacking the banks? The 'bad' bankers, of course, would be punished and the people would celebrate seismicism in all loans without exception. That's what you yelled at. The market would therefore have been flooded with liquidity by the nationalised banks in all the applicants for loans. That is what you were saying and even urged people not to pay their loans. For five months, Mr. Tsipras and your predecessor Mr. Varoufakis have been negotiating with the lenders, following this incredible strategy. First of all, instead of quickly closing the assessment, you left time to go through and pay the instalments of the International Monetary Fund, wiped off the public funds. Secondly, you returned the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund to the European Financial Stability Fund, which constituted a pillow for the banks and which we do not have now, namely, you did not have it in the recapitalisation. And thirdly, you were implying everywhere in Europe - not you personally but many of your members - that you would do it Kuggy and that you would do Kuggy the Eurozone if she did not accept your requests. The result was what Mr Voridis also said: depositors panicked started raising 40 billion euros, proving banks out of the last cash ballots, and at the same time the tuuli were actually bored and the markets were, unfortunately, dancing against us, Minister. The Stock Exchange collapsed day after day and finally closed, not forget, for a whole month. Such a precedent, to close the Stock Exchange, was not even made during the Occupation. Only one has done it in the past and let me, I don't want to make any connection, alas. Only one of us in history managed to close the Stock Exchange, Minister. He was the Macaise in the years of the dictatorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u175	Okay, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u176	He managed to shut it down for 20 days. That was the success you made. The culmination of the tragedy, of course, was the closure of the banks, for which we have spoken, the capital controls. This, of course, had never really happened before in Greek history. That's what you originalized. After the expulsion of the great economist and negotiator of the theory of games, Mr. Varoufakis, the course is beginning that takes the form of prasoposomia. Not only did the banks go through the hands of the state, which had the majority by November last year, but as Mr Stathakis also admitted, they were sold in the bad profit funds, against a lentil plate. The question, however, is not what we want, Minister, have mentioned it before - or what the funds want. The question is what happened after all. What has happened, Minister, and you are well aware of it is that almost all of the banking system has been sold EUR 5 billion, giving young owners access to assets and loans worth EUR 350 billion. At the same time, the Financial Stability Fund, i.e. the Greek taxpayer, was losing out of control of his assets and EUR 12.5 billion from the valuation of his shares, which corresponds to four years of ENPIA, as reported or alternatively to 5 thousand euros per Greek family. And now, we're going to the boom, and you're going to have to answer us, Minister, why you didn't answer. How did you suffer this overwhelming defeat? The answer is simple, Mr Stavros told you earlier. In view of your inability to deposit the institutional framework for the recapitalisation of banks, because it was approaching 1 January, the new European legislation, in fear of deposit haircuts, which you yourself also caused with the back of the wall, you agreed to put minimum price on the stock values and to apply the offer book method, the so-called 'book building' method, without restrictions, Minister, which allowed investment funds to set up in line with the prices of the increases, at the level of the prices of the old shares. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A slight tolerance, Mr President, and I shall end. Comparisons are overwhelming. For example, because you referred to our own, the first recapitalisation at the National Bank, we made it at EUR 4,29 per share, Minister, and you at two cents per share, that is, 99.5% lower. We had set a limit. And then foreign funds and private and small shareholders entered. Then they entered by 4,29 because there was a prospect in the economy, while in your recapitalisation the economy was swept away and continues to crawl into the gutter. The Greek State held the privileged shares in the National Bank worth EUR 1.35 billion since the 2008 Haloskoufi Law. These shares agreed to be converted into new shares in the latest recapitalisation of EUR 392 million, i.e. by writing 71% losses. So the damage you have done is so dizzy. Of course, Minister, the last recapitalisation of the banks did not leave the holders of bank bonds unaffected, who either necessarily or friendlyly agreed to convert their bonds into shares, some of them with a haircut at the nominal value of their bond. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to go to the most essential. Do you know what is most essential, Minister? All the above, if someone combines them with the economic circumstances we are going through, they cause terror with the thought that we could in future need a new recapitalisation. We are "naked" by weapons, without the 11 billion euro pillow, without the possibility of new state aid without the confessors. What's left? Unfortunately, what has been voted on, the new Community legislation. In short, this is the recapitalisation that you have managed to make, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and all the above are responsibilities and unanswered questions which will soon have to be answered. One last thing, Minister, without any personal disputing or confrontation. I would like to ask you a question and I want you to answer us: Are you still investing in foreign fund shares? So because you like to invest in banking products - not only you but other government officials - I would urge you, if you have not already done so, both you and the other ministers, to liquidate your mutual funds and transfer the money to the Greek banks so that you can first give the Greek investors the message that you trust the banking system and that things will go better from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too. Mr. Chiara, you asked for the floor. Of course, it is not foreseen, but I can by way of exception give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u178	No, Mr President, I am not going to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u179	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I will not answer all the questions. We need a different procedure to say, for example, about non-systemic banks. You did not ask for that in question. I am at your disposal to have another debate, or within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs or in another context. I will not repeat the arguments as to whether New Democracy and PASOK were successful in 2014. All the arguments have been heard. I won't repeat whether SYRIZA was a disaster. I think we've already said that, we've exhausted it, and we're tired of the world. I think there is no argument that has not been heard. That is why I focused on the substance of the recapitalisation. I don't know why Mr. Voridis thinks it was a delicacy. Maybe you'll have to see his denture to have a comparison for what's delirious. I'm going to the point of the matter. I would like to say to Mr Karathanasopoulos that he is right in some way that there is the same procedure with the New Democracy and the previous government. It is wrong to say that he does not care at all and that he has no worries about recapitalisation, because, unfortunately, in capitalism we are living the only thing that is worse than recapitulating banks in the way they are recapitalised, it is not to be recapitalisationed and the consequences for the poorest are terrible in these cases. Mr Karathanasopoulos is right, as are others who said that the SYRIZA Government has made a compromise on the banking system. It was one of the issues we agreed on with the creditors. It's not the place we had. We have had to make this compromise and within this compromise we tried to do the best. I understand that as a left. But I do not understand Mr Theocharis saying that we had to spend more than EUR 5.7 billion, which would mean an increase in debt or nationalise the banks. I note here that I did not get any answer to the question I raised if we did well not to convert privileged shares. I understand Mr. Karaguni that we were wrong. I do not know whether Mr Stavros or Mr Denkias agrees, but because he will have a tritology - I think - Mr Dendias will be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u181	I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u182	We tried the way and the compromise we told you to lead to three things. Firstly, new investors should come. You know from the book building process you don't choose who's coming. Of course, precisely because we have a suspicion about the funds and, in particular, about the fact that they do not invest in the long term, we are therefore making a great effort to involve both the EBRD and the IFC, which are institutional banks, which have very long-term horizons. I think that by participating in recapitalisation and also in administrations, we are trying to influence this long-term horizon that we want. So, in order to reduce the debt, we wanted to bring foreign investors. What are you telling us? That we didn't want to, or did you say you would bring more? And in what process will you bring? You can explain it to us, because otherwise it's a conversation I hear, but I don't really understand what you want to say about it. At the same time, we ensured that the Financial Stability Fund will have a significant influence on banks, either on banks that have a large share or on shares that have a veto on banks that do not have a large percentage. That is the framework of our compromise. It is a compromise that the Greek state, through the Financial Stability Fund, has a say, can go through developments. It is a framework where new investors have come and so the debt has not increased as much as it could. It is a framework where there is the ability through EBRD and IFC to exercise, together with the Financial Stability Fund, a real policy where our banking system can change course, invest more in real economy and less in structured bonds, derivatives and all these things and tools that led to the crisis in 2008. The issue of the Finance Bank that you have asked me - and you are right, Mr Loverdos, I have not responded to my prototype - is a difficult matter. You ask whether the first acquisition decision was good and whether it was good after its sale, whether we won from one and whether we won from the other. I have to tell you this is a difficult question. The valuation for Finance Bank might have already been made by the previous governments. The sale of 40% of Finance Bank was decided by the previous recapitalisation of 2013, but due to the adverse circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u183	Less than 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u184	I won't accept that. This little game where you're always interrupting has to end. Christo, I've never interrupted you almost and you've found the new to interrupt you continue, along with Mr. Teddy and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u185	Minister, please. Mr. Stavura, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u186	I've always been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u187	That's right. But as Churchill said, "There is no honor of being consistently wrong."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u188	He said something about Churchill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u189	I want to tell you about Finance Bank that there was this problem. While Finance Bank was doing well, it could not transfer its profits to Greece, so it did not help the National – as much as it could in other circumstances – so this sale that took place was probably profitable. In all of this I do not take a strong position, because I think there are good arguments from both sides. I think that the price we have received was quite good, given the fear that one might have and the prospects of the Turkish economy in general and the prospect of depreciating the Turkish pound. For Mr Carras to say that I do not understand what he said about Cocos, while I agree with what he said about preferential shares and what he said about Finance Bank. I think that 8% of Cocos - which if banks cannot withstand this 8% are converted into ordinary shares with all the rights of ordinary shares and at the value of 116% of the price - is a solution that gives a security for the Greek banking system in the future. That is all, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u191	You didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u192	I said at first. I was very specific. I have answered many times for the parallel programme and for the season before July. I'm not going to have this conversation every time to be called in the 20:00 cards, what you want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u193	You haven't answered. You didn't answer the question of redundancies either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u194	For the exam you were asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u195	For what you are asking, I gave the answer to 'REAL'. You can read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u196	Since you're here, don't you repeat them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u197	Since you're causing me to respond, even though you blame me for having no sense of humor. I said that I was hurting Mrs Constantopoulos before, that she has discovered the legal path towards socialism. I said I hope Mr. Mitsotakis has not revealed the legal path towards extreme neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u199	Minister, I won't get far at all. I am reminded here by my colleagues - and unfortunately I also remember - that you had signed the proposal for an examination, at the time, of the second capitalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u200	It was the examination of socialism. It was another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u201	So I have the impression that in any case, since you have traces of your humor again, it might be a good thing, beyond the rediscovery of humor, to say: 'Excuse me, we have badly done'. It's not bad, you know. It's not bad to say we did something wrong. I must also point out that if I see the five questions which your colleagues have raised, we have not received your answers to the second and fifth questions. The second question concerning the Finance Bank in which there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u202	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u203	Wait a minute. I didn't say you didn't cover it. I said you didn't answer. It is different the "speaking" and it is different the "impossible". Here I ask you directly: Has there been any advantage, inconsistent or neutral? What I would expect from you, as Minister of Finance, is for you to tell us more about the consequences of the branches of Greek banks outside Greece, that is to say, if we are not to be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, that the Greek banks and the Greek economy in general suffer a violent mutilation. He returns to the border of the small Greece. That's the reality. You know very well and the government knows very well, and everyone knows very well, that the role of the banking system, of the branches of Greek banks outside Greece, of course, was multiple. What is happening at the moment, the violent break-up of all this effort started in early 2000 and mid-2000, is something tragic for the Greek economy and it is something particularly heavy for its country and its efforts for the future. And the role of our country in the wider Balkans and in the economy of Eastern Europe, from a growing and confident role, ceases to exist. For all this, you haven't commented on anything. Nor did you answer directly, at least as I understand it - you put the 5 billion - to the fifth question: Will it arise in the context of the recapitalisation of some kind of damage to the Greek State? You didn't tell us clearly. Can you tell us directly whether or not there will be any damage to the Greek State? Because your answer, you will allow me to tell you, was a response to the use of numbers. On the substance, will we have damage? Yes or no? Can you tell us? We would like to have in the Minutes the Minister of Finance's reply to a very clear question. The damage to the public, it's not a simple thing, you know. From that point on, we are discussing whether it is our fault, who is to blame, if it could be avoided. But here there is a clear question: can I please have your answer, Mr Minister, after half an hour of speaking in the Chamber, your clear answer, at least, to the Minutes? I conclude: I am also following in your second language supportively for the role of the funds in the modern economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u204	I barely said about the EBRD...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u205	First of all, for EBRD - as you said - if I remember correctly, I, as Minister of Development, signed the application for EBRD to come to Greece, and indeed needed a whole process because, as you know, Greece was a developed economy and needed a whole debate on whether EBRD should come or not. But I have to tell you that the investment from the EBRD, while I am pleased - and I have indirectly caused it by my signature - cannot relieve me. In other words, if we have the funds and the EBRD I cannot say 'a, what good, the private sector is involved'. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that no one trusts your government. No one, unless he has short-term or even medium-term prospects, comes to put his money in Greece in the long term. Do you remember the times when foreign banks came and bought Greek banks or entered the capital of Greek banks and opened dozens of branches in Greece? Now there's nothing. All this is gone. Six banks, I think, have stayed in Greece, one of the nineteen that existed, plus several offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u206	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u207	No, that's not your day. Wait a minute. It didn't happen in your days. In your days, however, something else could be done and you have lost the enormous opportunity to do so, with the second recapitalisation at the level it had reached, to begin with a recovery in the banking sector that had begun for the rest of the economy. You are not responsible for the recession suffered by the Greek economy from '10 to '14. I don't chew my words. You are responsible for stirring up the recovery of the Greek economy in '14 and turning it back to the recession. That's your responsibility. And for us, 25% of GDP loss had certain causes - an economist you are, you know - it was absolutely expected. It wasn't really different. It could be wrong, getting a little better and more. However, there could be no correction, without a fall in GDP. Now don't talk about that. The middle Greek citizen may hear these strange things and say 'what they are saying now', but these were things that were about the book, with some mistakes in the execution that have been confessed by all actors. But you - and the talk I am about to tell you - have acted criminally. Especially, in your first six months, in the six months of Barofakis, what you did was terrible and you knew it. You knew why you were an economist. And you owe me, Minister - and I tell you personally - why let me say that I like you and I appreciate you, regardless of the differences we have in mind - to come here - you, who are here today - and to vote against the Government in the views of Barofalis. And you didn't. You were, at best, a silent attendant to another ministry and that makes you accomplice because they were moments of national responsibility. That is the reality, unfortunately. And that is why your government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, will apologise to the Greek people and be apologied very soon. And what I gave you as the Greek people's perception of the role of your Government and of what you do, it is about the beginning of a perception of the truth, which will very quickly lead to the departure of your government and finally to the vindication of your expectations of the "sabbatical", which I see from here you bring it from there, you always want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Do you want to answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u209	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u210	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u211	I'm proud of what SYRIZA tried to do. I am proud to have tried to change things in Greece and in Europe. I am proud that now this SYRIZA programme for change in Europe's economic and financial architecture, we hear it from Portugal and Spain to Italy. Read the "LA REPUBBLICA" today, see how great a change exists since last season, that the policies of the last thirty years have been challenged by social democracy no longer, not always by our own, but at European level, that it is worth trying to change things, it is worth not taking all the data, it is worth not to be subjected to blackmailing "do not do that because I will throw down the financial system, don't do that because the shares will fall." The left ones know that thing. The left-wing university teachers know about it with the values they have had for a hundred and fifty years, if they did not exist at the side of the workers, we would have no social state, no progressive tax system or rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u212	Right made the social state!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u213	I hope you don't see these coming back. I'm not as pessimistic as Mr. Dendias. I think there is a plan, that just because we have a road map and what happened with the Finance Bank is reversible. I think the plan of the four systemic banks is to be geographical banks beyond Greece. I think they have too many prospects of regaining this. I am not at all sure that if things go well in ten years, they will not be these four banks with a significant presence in the Balkans. And I am not pessimistic that the Greek State will lose from this recapitalisation. I think that in the way we did it we best ensured our participation. I have every expectation that we will pass at a value of 5.7 that we have given. I cannot promise you that we will go through all 25 billion with your own losses, and I asked you to tell me what plan you had for these 25 billion when at the end of your own government the value had gone from the 25 billion to the Financial Stability Fund at 11. You have told me your own law, which - although it also has positive points - I do not think it is an overall response to the issue of red loans. I don't know if that's the position of many economists. So you did not answer the question: "How would you get the 25 billion-dollar damage to the banks with your own policy?" I didn't hear anything about that in the delirium of some of your speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u214	Next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u215	You heard everything, you just don't listen well. It's a matter of hearing lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u216	So I think it's not easy. We do not triumph, but I think we have the whole framework so that we can bring the economy back to growth and interfere in European data with different policies and - Mr Vorides - in a fair way with redistribution, because you may have the self-awareness that you support the working class, but I must tell you that it is not the common sense in the rest of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u217	And for you it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, first, on 18-2-2016, a criminal case for Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and, second, on 22-2-2016 a criminal case for the former Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikos Xydakis. The debate is adjourned under number 11/7/3-12-2015 of the Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Finance on the need and procedure for the recapitalisation of credit institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-22-S1-commons.u219	With the consent of the House at 21.12' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 23 February 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
