ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 20-9-2016 authorisation, the PKB's Minutes of Tuesday 20 September 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PKB's minutes, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improvements of the Arab Republic of Egypt on cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Thursday 22 September 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Health about the prospects for the more effective functioning of the Centre for Physics and Medical Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Karditsa. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1278/19-9-2016 of the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the deterioration of classical education in Greece. 3. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the ‘necessary operation of the airport of Anchialos Magnesia and the conduct of regular international flights on a permanent basis’. 4. The question by No 1273/15-9-2016 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall. 5. The question asked by the Member of Parliament by No 1283/19-9-2016 of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the damage to crops and facilities from recent destructive floods in Elia. 6. The question by No 1274/16-9-2016 of the current question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the field of mental health. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1281/19-9-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the analogues of the Greek Police. 8. The question asked by Mr Georgios and Mr Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the need to redesign the routes of the "TRAINOSE" to cover the Peloponnese. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by no. 1277/19-9-2016 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the increase in prices for renting beaches on the islands. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kastoria of New Democracy, Maria Antonio to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the need for the immediate deposit of the Hellenic State Convention with the European Investment Bank (EIB) to finance the research. 3. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the "process of thorough research into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos". 4. The question by No. 1280/19-9-2016 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the need for parallel support for the special education of children with autism. 5. The question by No 1284/19-9-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health, concerning the huge problems in the functioning of the Anti-Narcotic Organisations. 6. The question, under number 1270/14-9-2016, is a topical question by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Health, on the staffing of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papagorgios". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance about the "TRAINOSE scandalous sale" of TRAINOSE in relation to the incomplete price of ECU 45 million. EUR’. 8. The question by No 1242/8-9-2016 of the Congressman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "inability to set up the beneficiaries in the workplace located in the region of St. Ioannis Corfu’. 9. The question by number 1193/29-8-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the need for maintenance and promotion of the Medieval City of Rhodes. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 6379/438/23-6-2016 of the Greek Parliamentary of Athens, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the provision of mental health services by AMKE (Athens non-profit company) with the financing of the Ministry of Health. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 7503/4-8-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the proposals of the geotechnical workers in ELGA Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring from 14-11-2014 Purchasing Shares Contract for the acquisition of 100% of GREEK S.A.'s share capital. and the 19-07-2016 Amendment Convention and other relevant issues regulation’. The Conference of Presidents decided unanimously at its meeting on 15 September 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. I propose this to you. We do not have to decide at this time, after seeing how many colleagues will be registered. First of all, no amendments have been tabled. That's very pleasant. So we're only talking about the contract today. Secondly, the committee spoke, apart from the rapporteurs, thirteen colleagues and the sitting lasted five hours. We will see how many colleagues will be registered today. If they register around 20, we've made a calculation of time that we're about 17:00. However, because we have to wait to see how many people will be registered, I make you a proposal from now and we will see it during the debate not going beyond 19.00 p.m. -20 p.m. at night, if many colleagues are registered. Also, to make a request to the two parties that voted against the convention, to the Golden Dawn and to the Communist Party, if you are going to make a roll-call vote at some point during...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u2	We can vote on a roll-call vote, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u3	Yeah, we can all, anyone. I'm just saying it in the sense that they voted against. So let us be informed in time to the Bureau that the roll-call services will be prepared so that time will not be wasted at the end of the sitting. Does this House agree first?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore agreed. So we begin with the SYRIZA Secretary-General, Mr Georgios Ursouzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u6	Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u7	We did not agree to this procedure. It is not a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u8	Do you mean the Conference of Presidents? Well, even though I was present, they probably didn't notice. So it's by a majority. The Minutes are corrected! All right, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u10	Here you go, Mr. Ursuzidis. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of the Convention on the concession of the'Mediterranean fledgling', as mentioned very often, of the Greek land. Greece is a place that since ancient times has been inhabited by people who have chosen to live here, because there are all those traits that make this place a very nice destination, both from natural beauty and from the ability that people have to grow here. This is evidenced by all these years, which have created the preconditions today, to be a world-wide attraction. Also, people who live in this place are hospitable, in a spirit of creativity and perceive the issues that arise and concern them and respond directly to the demands of times. Our ancestors have created all those conditions so that Greece can become a global destination and attraction over time. These features of our country may have been assessed by investors and proceeded with the great investment, which we now have to ratify in the Greek Parliament. I hope that the reactions will be reduced, since the plan provides for a number of issues that had been raised in the past, and goes beyond them in a credible way, particularly by concluding the amending contract. I will only say a few words in relation to this convention. The contract is ratified by the Law from 14-11-2014 on the acquisition of the shares in order to acquire the 100% share capital of the company “ELELENIKI SA”. They have power of law. In addition, the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. These contracts will also be signed by the Greek State as a third party after the entry into force of this Law. In the competitive process from the 25-11-2011, decided by the GOI to conduct an international bidding competition, until 14-12-2014, three years ago. It took ten months since February 2014 to sign the contractor and, indeed, just two months before the January 2015 elections. These are elements which concern Greek citizens. I have to report them. In the conclusion of an amending contract as of June 2016, issues relating to the substance of the project, which is to be performed, have been changed. In particular, ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’, the project contractor was declared a bidder, with a nominal value of EUR 915 million, promised and pledged to ensure an investment capital of EUR 4.5 billion. The sum of the purchase price of shares plus the total value to be invested therefore touches the EUR 5,5 billion. This was the case with the contract, which was signed, I repeat, in 2014. Beyond the benefit that will arise, as it will influencing money into the country and creating a turnover, the GOI will, in addition, participate in the future economic benefits resulting from the development of the property. In particular, the seller is entitled to receive annually from shareholders the right of remuneration. The benefit amounts to 30% of net profits. This will also happen for the entire duration of the contract, which is set out in the ninety-nine years. In addition to 15%, which is reasonable as a percentage of the shareholder's benefits, the concept of the balance is defined as the net profit, which is less than 15% for the return on the shareholder's capital. The remaining amount, which is now considered to be a net profit, will have a percentage on it of 30% or the Greek State. I now come to the amending contract. The buyer undertook to pay 51% of the total nominal market price by the second anniversary of the transfer date. This means, in practical terms, that an important chapter is shifted much earlier than the planned time, which was the end of the first five years. In addition, under the same conditions and conditions, it has undertaken to make every effort to ensure that the investment obligation originally provided for by the intention of a contract in fifteen years goes to twelve years, with what it means yesterday and with what was heard yesterday, since, of course, those who mentioned it, believe that a delay time had to do with many billions of euros. Here, in this sense, the project timetable is shortened by three years. So if what you say is true, you realize how much billions the benefit to the Greek society is. In addition to the direct economic benefits, which will arise for the Greek State, it is also expected that the indirect benefits will be the ones, since the upgrading of the metropolitan park of Agios Kosmas will also be invested in private funds, without the commitment of public funds. Moreover, the buyer must proceed to the creation of a metropolitan park, not as provided for in the 2014 Convention, as an internal courtyard of a enclosed area of beet, but open to the neighbouring municipalities of Greek, Argyroupoli, Alimos and especially open to the sea. It is created from the total 3.5 km of the coastal front of the plot, all the above mentioned with the park, even though the investor owns the right to surface. It is committed that the investor is open to the public and easily accessible to the citizens in order to make use of the facilities intended to be built there. We are talking about a metropolitan park of two thousand acres, which is one of the largest in the world, accessible to the public, with no limitations, with common green spaces additional to six hundred more acres, plus a warehouse of land, where they will be transferred to the particular plot of various uses, which are covered within the neighbouring municipalities and which will thus liberate a green space in the residential environment of the neighbouring municipalities. In spite of the maximum allowable structure provided for by the 2014 contract, which amounted to 3,600,000 square meters, the construction of the real estate, as promised by the amending contract, goes down to 2,700,000 square metres. In other words, the property utilisation factor was 0.6% and goes down to 0.45%. The usual rate that the country is structured in an average urban city is at least 1.2%, so you understand that it's three times below what's going on in my city, Veria. The country's coverage rate is 30%, where the average rate for coverage is 70% respectively. You can understand that by means of the amending convention, in addition to the economic benefits I will mention below, there is what we call respect for the environment and open spaces for the enjoyment of the inhabitants on the one hand, and the creation of possibly a microclimate that improves the conditions of residents living in the adjacent regions. In the coastal zone, the rate of cover was also ensured not to exceed 15%. This concerns all temporary facilities, which will be developed on the coastal front, which do not have the character of permanent installations, and this is something that the investor also agreed with the amending contract. Now I come to the big issue, which concerns the assessment of the field. We are all witnessing a report which the Technical Chamber had submitted and which involved a price of EUR 2,900,000. At first glance, one can think that at the price of EUR 915 000 000, paid by the investor and agreed with the amending contract, although we were committed from 2014, I repeat, two months before the elections signed by the previous government, there is one issue concerning the 1.5 billion extra projects relating to infrastructure projects, namely the obligations of the Greek State that the investor is undertaking. So cumulatively, 1.5 billion plus 900 million, we have 2.5 billion, which really approach that assessment, which the Technical Chamber of Greece produced two years ago in the relevant evaluation study. I repeat that the Technical Chamber of Greece is the State's institutional adviser on technical matters. These projects, therefore, which the investor undertakes to build, are additionally entered into the estimated amount of 4.5 billion. Now, from there on, to reach 8 billion, as the company claims in the advertising form, which has shared us, one must conclude that investors have made a mistaken assessment, because it was questioned whether work was added, so I think that these issues are absolutely clear, and it was made clear yesterday in the committee and Mr Pitsirlas and Mrs Spyropoulou, so I think it is said. They are the people who handled these issues. It is also very important that all open spaces relating to the metropolitan park, which was not provided for in the previous Convention, should be completed in the first five years. For the main facilities, I repeat, public utility networks, the reconstruction and settlement works of the two kinds that cross the area and the creation of extensive roads and bicycles in total lengths of 50 km, sporting and cultural uses of the metropolitan park, construction of a recyclable waste sorting centre, which is only for the waste produced and processed within the property, now under the new amending contract, undertakes to draw up a study plan, covering all three border municipalities, known as the problem faced by the three municipalities, with a study cost of 50% by the investor. Also, the creation of accommodation areas for SMEs, which remain in the area and for as long as the contract lasts, is a fact which society required and indeed is achieved by the amending contract. In addition, it should be noted that the infrastructure of the public interest, which was concerned with the installations which were to be created around this field, is now concerned with the investor's case. Our obligation is simply to ensure energy and water to the edge of the field. All other facilities relating to the operation of this sale - because this is what it is all about, since they are to be permanently resident there at least thirty thousand citizens - are now an investor's case and it is not about any additional public expenditure. Moreover, the renovation, operation and promotion of maintained buildings described in the amending contract are now a new commitment and the costs are also relevant to the investor. Also - and this is very important - it is planned to approach the area by stable infrastructure instruments which are to be required in order to implement this commitment. This concerns the investor's costs again. This is very beneficial as a measure, as the citizen is discouraged from using a car. In addition to its ecological dimension, this has another dimension in the case of road fatal accidents, for which we know that the country pays far more than it accounts for in countries which have taken action on the roads. I want to make a small reference to the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research, which is talking about seventy-five thousand jobs and another fifteen thousand more to the full development of the project. The project is expected to be implemented in 15 years, but its full development with the implementation of all investment projects is projected in twenty-five years, i.e. 2041. This investment will obviously generate revenues for the public and insurance funds. These are self-evident things. However, I should just like to mention the fact that a turnover will be created, which is a benefit in total during the investment of the fourteen billion, as mentioned in the IOB study. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will end in a minute. I want to make a reference to what it sounds. The property is not sold in the sense that it is transferred to a third party. The property is granted for ninety-nine years, of which twenty-five years relate to the full development of the project and when ninety-nine years passes back to the Greek State, 70% of the total real estate and land related to it and remains the owner's property only 30% of the investment and that corresponds to land.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u12	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u13	I only confined myself to the contract, without making any political remarks, as colleagues like to do. That's why I'm here, get people informed and figure out exactly what's going to happen. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u14	It goes without saying that the system of electronic registration will remain open until the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, who I call on him to take the floor from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am impressed by the latest report by the SYRIZA rapporteur, who felt curious when he found the laughter of the New Democracy colleagues in his final report. Now, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is being offered for what they say in the Internet language about wild scaring in SYRIZA, mainly because we heard in the committee yesterday, outrageous things that I want to collect and mention, so that you do not think they will go through that. First argument, which I heard from many of SYRIZA colleagues: 'But, since the investment was so advantageous, why have you not gone to it for so many years?' That's an interesting argument! I would like to remind you that the government of the New Democracy of Kostas Karamanlis, in particular, the then Minister, George Soufflias, had first raised the question of the use of the Greek. He did it in this House. Do you know what happened, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - then you were much less here - when the government then spoke about the utilization of the Greek? You flew into the seats for the "extract" of the Greek, which had to stay a public park for the citizens! Indeed, I remember that at the time you were starting to put the National Technical University in front of you, with the teachers you brought to plenary yesterday, who explained to our fellow citizens, not what SYRIZA's rapporteur has just told us, but how disastrous it would be for Attica to lose the opportunity to have a large public park for the world and to give it for tourist use, for housing use or in any case to make money for the Greek public. You said that at the time, you now have the courage to give up on us, because we did not go faster on exploiting it! The answer is: We did not have the political courage to highlight your true face to the Greek people, as you deserve. You're giving it to us now. I say this to my fellow Member - I do not remember his name - which he asked yesterday why we did not do so faster. Because you yelled! Unless a SYRIZA colleague has a place to show us a place for a SYRIZA MEP either in Parliament or anywhere outside that had supported the utilization of the Greek before you became a government. You're such phenomenal hypocrites!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u16	It's your inability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u17	Our inability, indeed, to deal with the ideological hegemony of the Left! That's what I agree with. You were literally the reason Greece was staying behind and we had not found the courage to deal with it for many years. But that has now changed. This is the great gift Alexis Tsipras makes at home: He exorbits the Left. For the next fifty years, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no student at the university who dares to say that he is left and will not be ashamed of it. I call on all the young people of the country to take the Minutes of yesterday's sitting and today's and when they go to the universities and see the various left-wing hairs there with the banners, who react to everything and make them difficult and nothing like them, to show them what the 'first-time left' does to power. The 'first time left' to power, then, what does it do? He comes and celebrates, because he gives the airports to the Germans, which, when the "bad" was given by the "bad" Samaras, was treason. But when "good", "patriot" Tsipras is a development project. What else are you celebrating for? That you gave - it says - 'COSCO' the port of Piraeus. When Costas Karamanlis gave "COSCO" to Piraeus, you closed the road and could not go to the President of China to see what he bought, because you were there calling for treason and sale. We are now coming to the Greek. But yesterday we heard a second record, ladies and gentlemen, which is even more interesting than Mr Baltas's first record. Mr. Baltas gave us a lesson. What did he say? He said: The way you talk about our turn is not very interesting, because you should know that we had to make a historic compromise. So, in order to be better, you have to bear in mind that we have our ideas, we keep them. But what do we do now? Because of this historic compromise we have to legislate differently. This argument is interesting. Of course, Mr Baltas, I have to tell you that a month ago Mr Drasakis gave an interview at the "NATIONS" and answered this question you raised yesterday. Do you know what the Vice President said? "It could indeed be said that we are doing these things, that is, going backwards from our ideology, just to keep the chairs, but I can assure you that it is not so." Yeah, I'm one of them, and I'm telling you right away. You don't like privatizations. Mr. Dimitras has not become a fan of privatization, which said that Attica was being destroyed by the Greek and Latsi. But the chair is sweet. Yes, of course. The 5,000 euros a month are sweet. But be careful, Mr. Dimitras. The 5,000 euros I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u18	You're a punk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u19	But listen, it's a chubba. Kaloger at least did it with 75 million loans in a year. You with 5,000 euros! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So listen, Mr Balta. Your argument is both deaf and immoral. Do you know why it's immoral? Because if we accept it as an argument, then whatever you say, at any stage of your political journey, it does not have the slightest meaning. Because tomorrow, invoking any sort of historical compromise you can make exactly the reverses and then teach us lessons about doing - it says - a hard opposition of a low level, with voices and cries. Is that what you said, Mr Balta? Listen, Mr Balta, and I want you to answer that. Let us see your argument: with this type of opposition, with the cries and the accusations, the New Democracy will not go ahead. Let's see what you guys did. I speed up some of what you were saying to us when you were opposition: 'German gypsies, gypsies, traitors, sold, people of Merkel'. I imagine that's your argument, that's a mild opposition argument, isn't it? It's coming back. But you have come to be a government. One would say that if we want to become a government, we should follow your own path of opposition and now overpower you as "solders". We will not do that, however, Mr Baltas, because we are not the same as you. And don't move your head. I told you yesterday. We have nothing to do with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u20	You're much worse. Especially you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u21	Easy, ladies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u22	We will vote for the Greek contract. We won't tell you you're sold. We will not tell you 'German girls', as you have told us, because we are not the same. Because we want the place to go forward. I come to the third argument. That's a little fun. There's a story, which I don't really want to ruin, to tell you the truth. Because if the SYRIZA Members can vote for it and thus satisfy their left conscience, which is high and teary, they must also have an excuse within them, Mr Papadopoulos, to vote, then indeed. Let you believe that, that is to say, the renegotiation of the contract has achieved some such shocking improvements, which are now making your negative position positive. What did SYRIZA's rapporteur say? He told the story again, that they were reduced - he says - the squares of construction from 3,600,000 to 2,750,000. To testify to the change from the master plan. Deposit the two master plan. Do you know why? You son of a bitch got caught by your company. Shared spaces and parking just cut off. Don't do anything like that. Download the master plan to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u23	Don't have a conversation with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u24	I've taken both of them, and I've got them there. Once you testify, I'll show them. Understand? What else do you think? You say that - supposedly - he did works of mutual benefit. But all these works were on the master plan. No more work you've done. You have, in fact, changed the arrangement toward the sea, as Mr Flavouraris' advisor wanted it. I didn't know that all your disagreement was having a little bigger front at sea. If you'd told us as opposition, we'd have made it back then, so we wouldn't have ruined our hearts and gone faster. I'm saying this so people can figure out what kind of political deceit you are. But I challenge Mr Balta to testify to the two master plan to see them. No change you've made. The only real change - I do not want to look inaccurate - is that you have gone faster than the 51% payment. But that doesn't matter. Because that is where you have already been delayed two years. What did we learn from IOBE yesterday? Each year of late investment costs the state 500,000,000 euros. Two years' delay we have already lost 1,000,000 euros. The Greek State has lost 1,000,000 euros, because you were in power and you delayed the investment that you were fighting for two years at the time. And what are you talking about? You say we do it faster. The company's commitment is to go from fifteen to twelve years. I mean, cover the delay you caused. That's what we're talking about. First of all, I wish it could happen. We don't want her to go to 12. We want him to go to eight in five years, as quickly as possible. That's why we're gonna be here and watch what you're going to do from now on. Because the investment does not end with the adoption of the law, the contract. This is the beginning. Do you know how much work and how much faith you need from your government to make this investment reality and get the bulldozers in and find the world a job and start building the Greek? The New Democracy will be vigilant and we will be here to force you to do your job faster and faster. Because what Mr Baltas said here yesterday, 'we still have these ideas', I was troubled. Here we need a government that understands that these ideas were nonsense. If you haven't yet realized that the left idea is a nonsense that kept Greece back and that all these years you've been on the streets and yelling at the privatisations, you've been humiliated - you have to go apologize for what you've been saying and we all go down - we don't find any sense. Only by the belief that privatisation benefits the Greek economy, will the project be able to be quickly. Because it is true that all you who now look at me, everyone, each of you has gone to protests against privatization and all of you who will shortly vote "NAI" in the bill, all in the past you have spoken against the privatisation of the Greek. Therefore, it is not enough to vote 'NAH'. That's the easy one. You're doing it for the chair. We said it. The important thing is to understand that the ideological hegemony of the left destroyed Greece because it kept it back so many years. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And we have the last one. We're not talking about it. I repeat that for me it is historic today. It is a historic day since you, who have been holding Greece back for so many years with your hatred, with your complexes, with your accusations, humiliating, drag the Left into history's chronicle. That's a big gift. In my opinion, the only benefit from Alexis Tsipras' government period is this. Alavanos says so, in harsh words, the truth is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u25	Are you watching Alavano now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u26	Yes, comrade Alavanos was here and we had him in the House as president of SYRIZA. I heard him yesterday in an interview that said that the government of Alexis Tsipras - hard expressions, I do not adopt them, to God - is the most betrayal government of all time. Alavanos said neither Metaxas nor Papadopoulos would dare do what Alexis Tsipras does. These left-hand treason phrases I don't like. I must, however, say that it is of great interest that among you now show your true face. Indeed, such degrading of the Left will only be a profit for Greece, because in the long term we will be able to go to our universities and explain to students that supporting the private economy is a good thing. We will show them as an example and we will tell them "see, when the Left took power, all that he said on the sidewalk left it on the side and did the right things backwards". And then the dumbest student who was taken from the Left will realize that between reality and the Left always prevails. And this is a great gift that the government gives you to Greece and it is our responsibility to make use of it and make Greece then as it should. But I close with another argument from Mr Baltas, who is very useful. Yesterday, in his disagreement with Mr. Konstantinopoulos, he extensively referred to the very large comparative advantages that Greece has and spoke about the geophysical, historical and the waters and everything else. All this is true and I subscribe to it. But here comes the big question: why, Mr Balta - have you ever thought about it? - while we have all this great superiority, Riviera - which you rightly described as extremely subtle in terms of the natural environment from Greece - manages and gathers all the money and we do not? Why, while we have a better geophysical environment, because while we have better waters, we have more history, we collect nothing here, and they collect the richest people in the world and all the money? The answer is that it's you, because you didn't all these years let anything happen, so!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u27	Why was Riviera before?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u28	Of course, because you're people like you, like Mr. Baltas at the universities! Our universities, if you don't know, are full of "Baltas" and thus destroyed people's minds. But now, I will show Balta tomorrow who votes for the bill and I will tell every student "Remember what Baltas told you at universities? That's what he's doing as Minister! So don't believe what he says, believe what he does." Only thus will Greece go forward, when it becomes clear to the last Greek that there is a road to progress, the road to the liberal economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. And it is a great impression - and it is also interesting, Mr Balta - that while I spoke yesterday about the victory of liberal ideology, you told me that I was speaking about the victory of neoliberal ideology. And "AGEY" wrote that Georgiadis defended neoliberal ideology. You like to put on labels. It suits you in your account, to say that 'it's all because of bad neoliberalism'. So let's finish this, too. Greece has no problem with neoliberalism. Greece, as you have seen, is the third country in public spending in the European Union. Only neoliberalism doesn't exist in Greece. It's coming back. Soviet democracy was about. That's right backwards. Greece has a problem with communism, not with liberalism. In order to make this clear, however, now there is a great opportunity to make this clear, to send you ideologically "on the corner", "on the outside", not to dare to re-demonstrate a demonstration about all these things and to create Greece, to give birth to jobs. And only two more words I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u29	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u30	I'm closing, Mr. President. The investment in the Greek, which is an investment that the New Democracy has long supported, and which, as I said yesterday - and I am glad we all agreed - was a perfect tender procedure - and I am glad you get back all the categories for the tender that you were saying in the past, and that in the introduction and in the introductory articles of your bill you mention how impeccably the whole tender procedure took place and therefore what you said about the scandals you took back, this is very pleasant - will bring a new day for Greece. It is the largest private investment that has been made in the entire Greek territory. It will bring more than seventy thousand jobs. With this type of investment, our kids are going to start spinning from abroad, people will start to find a job. We must try to make other investments like this. That is why the New Democracy commits that, when we become a government in good time, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself will personally monitor that at no point on the route the investment is being made as quickly as possible, so that a signal can also be sent to any other potential investor who wants to come to make similar investment in Greece, to come and do them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u31	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u32	This is Greece that we want, Greece of progress, Greece with jobs, Greece with liberals, Mr Baltas, economy, not neoliberals, Greece where the left-wing ideas will only be there to laugh at any tavern! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u33	Mrs Eleni Zarulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, before I refer to the draft law, to make a complaint. During the last ten days, a Turkish helicopter was seen on low flight over the island of Kos, for more than fifteen minutes, which the inhabitants had been observing. What are you doing there at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? It is a rhetorical question, of course. Another subject, which came to the public last night, on a television show: it was reported that the Germans want to buy our airspace and that the government is thinking about it. If that happens, then you understand that the Turks will do what they want, parade over our country, with everything that that implies. Let me come to the draft law now. In its draft law, Parliament approved the contract signed on 14 November 2014 for the sale of shares in the company ‘ELLINIKO S.A.’ and the amending contract signed on 19 July 2016. In both cases, the Greek, public, through the GOI and the companies HELLINIKON GLOBAL S.A. were purchasers and LAMDA DEVELOPMENT S.A., a public limited holding company, as a guarantor. The case of the exploitation of the area of six thousand two hundred acres, which includes the former airport of Greece, the former Olympic Sailing Centre and the Youth Sports Centre of Agios Kosmas, has already been employing the Greek state for over twenty years. In time the policies of the Greek governments on this issue, unfortunately, were characterized by a lack of planning, a lack of planning, an inability, a failure to defend the public interest, and a complete submission to the erections of international capital schemes, which sought to be fruited instead of a lentil plate, the most expensive urban property in all of Europe, taking into account the value of per spectre in proportion to its total extent. The result was perhaps to lead to the most disgraceful case of exposing public property in the newest political history of our country, for which all those who have been co-responsible for the past twenty years have signed the contracts in question. Needless to say, if the state were to take advantage of it, the benefits would be greater, since the airport was one of the most profitable companies in our country. The Price for Acquisition of Shares (TAMs) is set out in Article 3 of the Convention, EUR 915,000, payable over a decade. Of these, directly, the state will receive EUR 300,000. The amount of the price is considered not only to be very low, but also to be degraded for the property, the value of which is multiplier, as supported by reports from independent institutions and experts. In 2014, the Technical Chamber of Greece, with its economic study, identified this value at around EUR 3 billion, a value of more than EUR 915,000, which it accepted as being the price of the GOI. Notable and indicative of the hypocrisy and opportunism of the government is the fact that President of the Technical Chamber of Greece during the time that the report was issued - a cloak against the agreement of the HIDED, with the said purchaser, was the current Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Christos Spirtzis, who then conquered the agreement in question, describing the HIDE as a bad tender without starting prices and with a bid. Mr. Spirtzis was telling you about your government. In January 2016, a project group of experts - scientists, at the mandate of the Minister of State, Mr. Flabourari, was set up in order to study the disputed contract. According to the report of the above group, which saw the light of the publicity under the terms of the contract signed since 2014 by the GOI and the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’, the Greek State and the seller, i.e. the GOI, are disproportionately burdened with the excessive commitments and obligations to the buyer, so that there is a serious risk that the investment in the future will be excessively burdened by them. The contract shall in any event ensure the company by giving it a number of rights, contrary to the Greek State, which assumes a number of obligations to pay compensation. In addition, under the document No 10871-13-11-2014 of the Office of Prosecutor of Economic Crime Mr. Dratsis, the experts Georgios Anamatos and Ioannis Mela were assigned to assess the commercial value of the property, the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas, in order to investigate whether the agreed price between the TSE and the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ was reasonable. The two experts, delivered to the competent prosecutor in September 2015, are a real trick for the contracts in question, assessing both the commercial value of that property at more than three times and more than four times as much as the price accepted by the GOI. At the same time, they also raise other issues of legality, above the price level, such as transferring the full ownership of 30% of the real estate to the buyer company and granting the total area for ninety years. Here, let's say that for a family grave, ninety years are asking you, that is, a life more than a lifetime. It is clear from the foregoing that the contract at issue constitutes a maximum political and economic scandal which serves only business interests domestic and international at the expense of the Greek State. Co-responsible for this crime, at the expense of the Greek people, is all the political forces, which, having the rule of the country in recent decades, have accepted the sale of our national wealth, unable to exploit public property for the benefit of our national interests. SYRIZA - ANEL Government chooses to seal the loss of national property in order to save money, but in no case will they be exploited for the benefit of the Greek people. What the rulers are diligently hiding, who are hypocritically celebrating the millions who are supposed to enter the public funds, is that the last euro from the price of the divestment of the Greek area will be used only to serve the public debt in a faithful implementation of the Memorandum promises made by our country. The future long-term investments promised by the buyer to carry out, in no case can they create even the minimum conditions for the recovery of the Greek economy in the near future. And as far as the jobs you are most advertised are concerned, they will be taken over by illegal immigrants who have brought them here for exactly this very reason, to offer cheap workers' hands, while the Greeks will remain in unemployment and tolerance. Both the current government and the political forces of counter-population that have been ruling in the past are now competing on who will prove to be more reliable and capable of implementing the Memorandumary Policies. To achieve this, they willingly accept and co-sign the sale of public property, aiming at their political survival and indifferent to the future of our people, in order to receive the credit of their orders. Greek justice through the application of legal procedures and the Greek people with their vote have to block the attempted national moderation. The position of Golden Dawn is consistent with S.A.'s decision 1938/2010, i.e. harmonious coexistence of airport and park throughout the area, but without casinos, etc. Airport again on Greek. How? First, the renegotiation of the colonial convention of the Spata for the reopening of the airport. Otherwise, in any case, the opening of the airport to state planes for the needs of our state and aviation. Rehabilitation of runway 15/33 and use it as a backup alternative landings to take-off time for Spata airport. The airport will be served by the extension of the metro and will be connected to the Spata via the peripheral Hymettos. To those who will be disturbed by the noises in the Greek, they can operate certain hours and only as a mild alternative airport. Revenues from the reopening of the Greek airport will be directed to the communes of the neighbouring municipalities and the state for the needs of building a park in Canoe - Kayak, whose installation is located in the northern part of the airport in several acres capable of becoming a forest area of recreation and sports children. The prestige of SYRIZA and today's government, has taken the lead for fifteen years in the figure for the metropolitan park and now sign the graceful contract with the capitalist superstate with hands and feet. Left farewells and left duocons screamed not to give inch of land to the contractors and the vast cement. They marched to Parliament, races for the park, gatherings of protest and an endless parade to greenen the entire area. Now that you're the ones who pretend to be the stolen mourners of the airport, you're the municipalities who'll run it from the eleven steps. You guys are gonna take it out. You're gonna tear it apart. You will turn it into a big city for the pork, if you prevent the national tests that are coming. Because if you had food in your mind, you would have arranged for the airport to remain in a spare use at the Greek airport for an emergency time and for the needs of civil aviation. But from a Prime Minister who doesn't know where Lesvos falls and where Mytilini, from a Prime Minister who became Samaras in Samaras' place, a Prime Minister reminding the poet Fanfara, you can expect nothing but destruction. The historian of the future will write that Tsipras was the “deadbreaker” of the airport of Greek. What do we need from external enemies now? The enemy is here, ruling and called SYRIZA - ANEL. Golden Dawn is voting against and we are calling for that penalty to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. We continue with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Konstantinopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are talking today about a large project that is a national objective for the country, a project which, as we said yesterday, reaches the limits of the Olympic Games. On the basis of my study - and Mr Tsakalotos accepts - the Olympic Games cost the Greek State EUR 9.1 billion. This project is EUR 8.1 billion. But today, along with the Greek debate, many other events coincide. It coincides with the end of the production of hay from Mr. Kalogritsa's pastures. It coincides with the end of the lies you have said for five to six years to the Greek people for this great investment. I explain: The history of the investment is very simple and very understandable. For the first time we talked about a metropolitan park and about mild residential development in the Greek area under the "Eleftherios Venizelos". We must all know and remember that, together with the compensatory benefits then for the municipalities, as we said yesterday. In 2011, when the PASOK Government's notice of the competition, which you are writing today in the explanatory statement that it was done on the best terms, you were the same to talk about selling Greek. You are the same ones who did not vote for the 2012 law and the 2014 law. And you come today, now that there are no pastures from Mr. Kalogrisa, to vote for the Greek contract, putting wide your signature. There is one question we will ask you all the time: Mr. Spirtzis, who is currently signing it, Mrs. Theano Fotio, but also many others from you, said that the value of the Greek is three times, that is, 3 billion euros. With this paper Mr. Spirtzis has gone to the prosecutor and filed a file that the public lost 2 billion euros. I wonder, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, which is true. Did you deceive the world in previous years or today, Mr. Spirtz and the government he has signed, have they broken duty? Will the SYRIZA government answer us when was the truth? That's the conclusion you went to the D.A. Will the prosecutor call Mr. Spirtzi to ask him when he was telling the truth? He was telling the truth at the time, with the finding, or today, who puts his signature back and says that everything was done very well? No answer, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, as you do not have much more. But let's see the point. Let us see who supported this effort without second thoughts. What quotation for the last two years each week would he invite Mr. Tsakalotos to come to Parliament for the Greek? The Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u37	Every week?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u38	Every week. Mr Chakalotos will remember that even when we didn't have a question, his secretary would call me and tell me that the Minister would not come while I had no question, Mr Manda, because you asked. It was so great the habit of weekly consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u39	Didn't I answer? I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u40	Once in sixteen months, Mr. Chakalote. You came once in sixteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u41	If you ask the same question, you get the same answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Chaakalot, you'll tell me later. That became a habit. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u43	Don't go into a dialogue like this now. Minister, when you speak, you will answer. Continue, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u44	To go now to see why this project is a national objective and why we, as Democratic Integration, supported it since 2011. Because the Democratic Association does not see this as a sale to a large investor. Because it is not obsessed with privatizations, when through these privatisations there are new jobs hidden, thousands of new tourists in the country. Mr Baltas - he's not here now - yesterday he was talking about the Athenian Riviera. For us the work is not Greek, but it is the work of Athenian Riviera from Sounio to Perama, which will create new data in Europe. Why are we saying that this project will be a project that will bring quality tourism, something that Mrs Spyropoulou just said to us yesterday? I am thinking of this tourism that we lost this year and last year from your own contributions. That tourism was taken by Spain. You can see the evidence. You can ask the Minister of Tourism. So we want this work, because it will bring quality tourism to the country, not to Athens, and to the district of Athens, but throughout the country it will bring about a half and a half million tourists a year. It is a project that will not only work Greek, it will work for hotels and all Athens. That is why we supported the Greek and not our insistence on privatisation. We, at the same time as we support the Greek, have our minds on other jobs. We prevented, as Democratic Compact, from sending thirty-two thousand psilicians to unemployment, on your own proposal, sixteen SYRIZA MPs, who gave the sales of tobacco from the whisky shops to the big supermarkets. This is the Left today, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Left that deceived the progressive citizens, who deceived all those who believed her to come a better day. And the worst thing for all of you, but mostly for these people, the progressives who believe in a different world, in a vision for the coming years for Europe, is that in one year, gentlemen, from prosecutors to all manifestations of public life, you are accused. And Mr. Pappas, Mr. Kalogritsa, will be in the position of Mr. Psycharis and the others you were talking about sea-loving, to answer questions about how within a year 100m euros were granted to your favourite red businessman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u45	Was it ours or yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u46	You'll have to answer. Mr. Drasakis has been a financial advisor to the Bank of Attica for thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u47	Did we get him too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u48	For thirty years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u49	What thirty years! What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u50	And he left the Attica Bank when he was elected a congressman. For what was going on there, you're gonna have to answer. And by prosecutors, swinging our finger, you're accused of what's been happening in the past year!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u51	Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u52	And a few of them you call Ulysses!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u53	Gentlemen, what happened in 30 years, you did it in one year!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u54	Well done, Ulysses!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u55	In a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u56	The thirty years where did you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u57	Why are you shouting? The microphones are running and very well. There's no need for voices. Please calm down, ladies and gentlemen, so that my colleague can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u58	Where'd you get those 30 years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I now have to address you. Leave Mr. Loverdo now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u60	It raises families, Mr President! He's talking about Drasakis. Does Drasakis have any business with Attica?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u61	Let him speak, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Loverdos, who gave you the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u63	However, no one gave me the floor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u64	Nobody!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u65	Who gave you the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u66	You can tell colleagues to calm down, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u67	Please, sit down and I'll tell them whether or not they'll calm down! Here you go, Mr. Constantinople, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u68	They would probably have forgotten by SYRIZA's colleagues that in the past few years, for whatever matter there was in the public debate, they were showing us with their fingers and they were pulling our fingers. They don't remember that. They don't remember what they called former Prime Minister Cholakoglu! This House has done it! They do not remember what Mr Tsipras and the rest of their Members were saying! They do not remember what the current ministers have said about what has happened in recent years. But let's go see why we support this investment, because we are consistent and no one of us has raised issues and created no problems in investment, something that has been done from other places. And this was not only done by SYRIZA - I said it yesterday - but also by Mr Diaras who said that he will see what he will vote on the evening or by mayors who are party to the Citizenship and by MEPs. We have consistently supported this process. But you know why? Do you know what this is about and why it is a national target? Because it is a unique opportunity for young people, young scientists, Greek entrepreneurs along with investors to complete a great investment that is similar to that of Europe. That's why we had two thousand acres of metropolitan park in 2011. Yes, gentlemen, now you remembered the two thousand acres! It is from the contract and from the 2011 PASOK Government Declaration. Now have you remembered, listening to the rapporteur, that this will be a very big project? I wonder what you're thinking when you go to your house at night. Do you have a conflict between what you said yesterday and between what you say today? Yes, you have a conflict, but the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has a coherent link: power, chair! Above all, it's the chair for the last time! That's why you'll keep the power as far as you can, because it's the link that connects Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Spirtzi. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, please give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u69	Continue, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u70	The Democratic Reconciliation which has supported all this effort in recent years at a very high cost is here today to talk to the citizens. He is here to tell those citizens you have betrayed and cheated on, these progressive citizens, to the Social Democrats, that it is time for us all to go together to create a competitive Greek economy that will create new jobs and a truly social state. We'll be here in this effort and in the next few days, because the investment has just begun. The Democratic Partnership, as it was before it was present in all the procedures, will control you so that not one day or a minute is lost for this investment. We'll be here with the socially weak. We'll be here with the businessmen who'll give the country new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. We are moving forward with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos. Come on, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u72	The urgent prescription has been made for you as a methodology to cover your guilt, especially for the privatisations that escalate so that there is no time to uncover, condemn your policy on crime, of course embrace the massive anti-grassrooting reforms of wages, pensions and rights. Two years ago you called the scandal the privatization of the Greek fillet and that it serves private, speculative interests, with Mr. Tsipras. Today, you present it as a public interest, you forge it better. Your anti-Flemish policy has the left-wing ribbon. You and the New Democracy, who are mocking your ribbon, are right, because you have the same policy, the same strategy. You have allies in New Democracy and PASOK celebrating. But they're doing a cockfighting show to hide that you're all voting on it together, as the other parties voted your third memorandum. It is also a revelation that in this Chamber, when a majority Member was differentiated, the rapporteur of the New Democracy has undertaken to consult him. He did the same yesterday. Bulling's exercising on him. It makes sense. The contract is of the New Democracy and of PASOK, with trivial micro-exemptions, which you over-evaluate. In fact, you arrived at your Member's point yesterday to say that the government does not promote state-owned enterprises such as the New Democracy. Ultimately, shellfish is your confrontation and disorientative. You're making fun of yourself, and the mock doesn't end. You are fully in line with the policy of privatization and divestment of public property and you compete with who will have the trust of capital as a better, as a more competent political force, to promote the most efficient profitability of business groups, leaving devastated on labour rights, wages, pensions, basic human needs, such as health, education, welfare. Indeed, the slogan that was shouting a few minutes ago by the Evangelism protesters is a success: "Further to the delusion, with the capital or with the workers". You're on the chapter. But you have to acknowledge that the rapporteur for the Anti-Population Officer, and today all he has done was pragmatism. He has not denounced you of communism and of Bolsheviking the contract, as the last one is also laughing and laughing. You know, it's very convenient and it helps your government, it helps to hide its class policy in favour of capital, doing better the dirty work of capitalists. It is also convenient for the New Democracy which has made it a flag, as is other urban parties. It helps them hide the strategic agreement, with the anti-popular government's tough policy, and to be forged as a better manager. It is also convenient for the exploitation system, since it identifies the anti-Folish government policy with socialism and its ideals, namely the abolition of human exploitation by people, ensuring permanent and stable work with full rights, with free public health, education, sport, children's stations, green and recreational areas for all, and a number of other rights, what you all crush on the profits of monopolies and make them an inappropriate dream for the people's family. That is why the New Democracy rapporteur accuses you of failing the Left. He's covering for you. The promotion of privatisation of the Greek is not by chance. This is why it is covered by Decree-Law No 2687/1953 on the protection of capital abroad. This means that it is exempted, it will never be done - so it supports - forced expropriation and uses foreign staff and tax exemptions with the bag. I'm tabling it in the Minutes to read the details, who you are and what you are promoting. For it appears, if you like, in the best way, the nature of the development policy promoted by the ruling class and, of course, the government is trying to show itself as a philosopher. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative decree, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Overall, it is part of the general profitability plan of the ruling order for Attica and is engraved before the crisis. It values the country's position as a freight hub and increased tourism from abroad, taking advantage of Attica as a central tourist destination, which will, however, have an impact on the popular strata. They won't have access, except for price. And all of you who agree and vote for it are the following: Firstly, this privatisation will lead to more than seventy thousand jobs which will alleviate unemployment. You do not, however, say how many jobs will be lost from thousands of small shops that will close in the wider region by the new shopping centres - buildings that will abruptly accelerate the concentration in the tourism, food and commerce sectors. Of course these jobs will be with hunger wages, without collective agreements, with little rights. Your legislation - and yours and the previous ones - has ensured it with all the anti-government legislative arsenal. And continue to strengthen him. You're scoring the leftovers on labour rights, wages, pensions. At the same time, the employer will be strongly financed by the various programmes, development laws, the Yunger package and others. Secondly, you say that there is an increase in the area of greenhouses with a corresponding reduction in building. But an environmental impact study you do not ask, as you should. The truth is that investment projects have nothing to do with the metropolitan park - open to the people. The large park, which the consortium has undertaken to build, is the necessary green that the planned infrastructure of high standards needs: skyscrapers, casinos, small houses, shopping centers. Won't they have green? You are baptizing the uncovered spaces of the hotels and ultra-peripheral dwellings, green for the public. This explains why the greenery construction takes precedence over it. Without it, it is impossible to sell at a high price of the ultra-peripheral dwellings. Besides, the explicit provision within the agreement to assume the maintenance and safety of the park by the investor testifies that it is a private park controlled by the consortium. It will shape its terms of use. It will determine whether and what will be open to the people, but also what will be open to the corresponding price of money, which excludes a large portion of poor people. The greenhouse will be maintained by an administrative body with remuneration. This means that there will be a ticket to get into what belongs to the people and does not enjoy it. Thirdly, it is a provocative position that the investor undertakes to build works of general interest. The projects relate to the facilities needed for the investment. The public utility and transport networks relate to the movement of tens of thousands of inhabitants, visitors, workers in the new facilities. New political, private state building and no infrastructure? What did you do with it? Lagonal residences of Rentis and other neighborhoods struggling when it rains a little longer, do they flood and lose life's livelihood? Fourthly, there is a reference - and you are presenting it as an offer - that a kilometre of free beach remains, which means that two and a half kilometres will be closed for popular strata. But that one kilometre won't be single. They'll be in a section of the beach between the structures. At the same time, the unstructured beach is expected to have rooms and other associated facilities translated into a substantial exclusion of popular strata. And, of course, there will be casinos with all the implications on the way of intake of income, but also in consciousness. That's a very productive investment. Fifth, recently on the occasion of the Olympic Games and the medals brought by our athletes, the great need for infrastructure in sport emerged. Agios Kosmas, with the Olympic infrastructure specifications and its microclim which is considered ideal for the preparation of athletes and at the same time is also a recreational space, you are essentially giving it to the buyer. And there is no guarantee that the existing sports infrastructure will be relocated. Yesterday we heard they'd be transferred inside the park. So, the private person will make use of them for profitability and our athletes will have to pay to train? There's no way I can tell you, let's see that. Sixth, unexistent protection of archaeological wealth. And yet, the general meeting of the Association of Greek Archaeologists in its decision expresses its disagreement with the performance of public land and public property to individuals, because the conditions of protection of monuments and visible or non-ruralities in accordance with the archaeological law are not sufficiently ensured. And yet, you throw all this in the trash. Seventh, there is talk of covering the park's security by the buyer, i.e. private policing, which means private city inside the city. The placement of the park shows that it will essentially be the insulation zone from the nuisance of the city of the residential and tourist facilities located next to the beach. At the same time, it predicts that the park will be financed by the Greek State, absorbing, in essence, a large part of the relevant funds. In the event that the investment group considers that the management body does not implement the public service contract, it will be able to lead to the full privatisation of the park, even to the taking over of its operation by the same investment group that will also absorb state funding. Eighth, Article 4 of the share purchase agreement provides for the possibility of using the shares of the project as a pledge for borrowing by the buyer. You actually photograph that the own funds that the buyer will mobilize may be a small part of the whole. I could say more. But what does it prove? That your claims cannot cover the fact that fair growth in capitalism is only fair for big businessmen who take public property, infrastructure and warm money out of the people, by stepping on the legacy of labour rights to dominate their profits. And privatization of the Greek is a typical example. That is why you have allies. For the Communist Party of Greece, the entire area of the Greek state as a public property must be managed by the public itself for the construction, management, operating and maintenance of a metropolitan multi-thematic park, which will be open to the people, with all the necessary infrastructure, so that the working people from all over Attica enjoy it. The park should also include all existing Olympic sports facilities, Olympic Centre, navigation, canoe kayak, stadiums and others, as well as buildings of the former airports and the former US base, as well as shelters, in order to benefit the people, youth, with exclusive free and free use, with easy access from all over Attica, cheap and fast transportation to develop genuine popular sport and to serve their cultural needs. For such use in the Greek area the Communist Party of Greece will continue to fight. At the same time, however, the developments themselves show that the productive infrastructure and natural resources that exist both in Greek and in general in the country give the opportunity to another development path that will serve the people without monopoly, without participation in capitalist alliances. That is why we call on the people to organise their counter-response and to promote their own needs, to create in their struggle the prospect of another path of development where public spaces, infrastructures and pooled means of production will be popular property and will be exploited by their own power, labour power, in order to meet their own needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, here is how the procedure is to proceed. There are three special speakers left, Mr. Dannelis, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Saridis. By way of derogation - not in breach - I was asked by Mr Loverdos to follow, because he has an unreserved obligation and has to leave and will be back this afternoon. Immediately after that, Minister Baltas has asked for the floor, and then we will start the list of speakers, where three colleagues will be speaking alternately from the twenty-two who have also been written a parliamentary representative. Since there are no small tensions that have arisen before, you know that at five o'clock we will be done. These toward knowledge and compliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, is there any chance of a roll-call vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u75	So far no such request has been made, Mr Loverde. There is so far no topic of nominal. The first three colleagues are Mr Pavlides, Mr Metarakis and Mr Sahinides. I say it so they know it and they'll be there. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least six years now the political system has understood that the end of the crisis will coincide with the coming of development. But are we speaking the same language? Do we mean growth in the same way? The insistence on maintaining a bankrupt socialist economic model proves that we don't all speak the same language in the end. The model of protectionism, customer relations, corruption, national economic barons, who are enriched in an introvertible, closed, uncompetitive economic system, has made all governments more or less struggling, both before the crisis and during the crisis. The public debate in Greece was contaminated by terms and phrases of limited value in an increasingly globalised environment. Acts like the "sale of silver", "foreign predators", monopolized and poisoned any attempts to real reform and change the production model. And of course this sick, negative and irrational political vocabulary blocked not only the privatisations, but also any investment that could add value to a deceptive economy. Lyssale tertiary-world activists, tears of top party officials, tax-free statements such as that of Mr. Tsipras when he was leader of the then-in-communist officer who said that if SYRIZA is to come and approve or ratify agreements like that in the Greek, then people better vote for Antonis Samaras, they still haunt the views of a large part of the Greek people. And like this, by being lost in translation, the fifteen years of delay for the utilization of the Greek are explained. Because the Greek does not delay the last two years. It's been fifteen these years. Because there is no sale of silver, but irrational use of public property. Because the memoranda, among other things, imposed strict observance of timelines, showing the way in which public property has been exploited, which has been constantly devalued - for decades - by blind eyes to citizens' trespasses throughout Greece. That's not where we're bothered. That's where we don't have a sale. There we have no loss of public property, of public wealth, of public property, of public prerogatives, because foreign predators were no more than those investors who were willing to risk resources that the country does not have to invest in. And let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen. Public property was at risk and at risk a lot more than domestic predicament predators who appear with a lot of nerve even today, taking us back to days of the late 1980s. The attempt to create new ones, of our own jackals, we paid it, and we pay it very expensively, not only in economic terms. And that's the worst! Ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek, an ideal area for the creation of a landmark of mixed uses, with national importance and international visibility, an area of fillet that can become a metropolitan city of international radiation, with tourist and entrepreneurial added value for the region of the Eastern Mediterranean, is lushing in the blurred waters of state inertia and lack of vision. It is used as a housing centre of nearly five thousand refugees, in conditions of impoverishment and shame for Western civilization. And don't think of comparing the Greek to Tebelhov's former airport in Berlin, which was exploited from the first day of its closure and hosts a certain number of immigrants and refugees and continues to be the field of leading artistic and cultural actions and not an unaccompanied ghetto. And let us not have either the size or the privileged position of the Greek. Through the ratification of the agreement we are discussing today, the Greek is expected to give an important breath to the Greek economy. IOBE's report on this is revealing. At a microeconomic level, the investment is expected to generate operating revenues from the turnover of business centres, offices, recreational activities as well as hotel units, amounting to EUR 1.4 billion annually over the next twenty-five years. No amount of money at all. Immediate benefits will also be derived from the financial revenues of the project. The tax revenue from the construction activity and operation of individual business activities is expected to reach EUR 14.1 billion for the same period. But also at macro-economic level, since the construction and operation of the project, the investment activity and synergies resulting from the exploitation of the area of the former Greek airport will have a positive effect on numerous sectors of the Greek economy: infrastructure, increased building activity, a sector that has been inhabiting the rest for six years, private consumption, a positive impact of our burdened trade balance due to an influx of private capital. All this, expected, leads to higher GDP of 2.4% for the entire project, to the strengthening of primary surpluses, which should otherwise be saved by lowering wages and pensions, reducing the ratio of government debt to GDP, contributing to the sustainability of debt, leading to an increase in employment of at least twenty thousand jobs. The total number for the twenty-five years exceeds ninety thousand additional jobs. So he wonders, why are we so late? Who has benefited from the delay of the investment in question and who has been damaged? And say, here, of course, that over time and with the rise, the strengthening of the crisis, of course, values are underestimated. And the value of this government dowry ten years ago was very different from what one can appreciate today. So who benefited? They benefited mainly - if not only - those who built their political careers on unintelligible, irrational, non-visional denials, on ideoleptic obsessions. On the other hand, Greeks and Greeks were damaged. The Greek economy was damaged. Does anyone really think at the moment that through the transfer of the Greek "we are exploring silver"? Do you still accept, Mr Ministers, statements from the top members of the government that insist on another type of utilization of the Greek or are you clearly compiling with the few examples of your agonists, not only for ratification of the contract, but mainly for its immediate execution? Because, all the rest of us, I think we are extremely afraid of a permanent ambiguity that the government is presenting to you. We fear a permanent bilingualism, which eventually cancels everything that the government itself proposes and we vote. We are afraid that the well-known strangles of the Greek State, together with the backwards in terms of investment and entrepreneurship, are an explosive mixture which can dynamise the entire investment we are discussing. Because the contract we are discussing must be carried out with surgical accuracy, within strict timetables, so that the Greek state cannot be found to pay the investor instead of recovering from him. Through the contract, the State undertakes to issue the required building permits and approve environmental impact studies. It undertakes to coordinate the timely availability of water, gas and electricity supplies at the infrastructure level of the neighbouring municipalities. It shall, in addition, undertake the timely and effective response of the archaeological authorities in the event of the discovery of any antiquities in the property in the manner and within the time limits provided for in the contract. The State also undertakes to fully operate the Hellenic Office, which will be the special intermediary responsible for the management, operation and maintenance of free spaces, public spaces and public utility facilities. Here, you must commit that the deep state will not meet the deep party. It will really be a pity that Greek taxpayers once again pay the administrative shortcomings, the reluctant rates of operation of the state machine, but also the ideological approaches of people to public administration. Reminding the apparent proposal to proclaim parts of the old runways of the aircraft as an element of memory worthy to be maintained that suddenly saw publicity a few days ago. Because when we say that the Greek State undertakes to implement and commits all this, we mean that, otherwise, it will have to compensate the buyer, in accordance with the terms of the contract. Attention, therefore, because there is no room for relics. However, you should show greater responsibility for drawing up relocation plans for all the existing services based in the Greek area, so that they can be relocated as quickly as possible, more efficient and at the lowest cost to the Greek taxpayer. We must also listen to the demands of the mayors of the neighbouring municipalities, whom we had yesterday in the committee responsible. They are mayors who are clearly in favour of investment. Some of the demands and anguishs that have been put forward to us are constructive in the realization of the investment itself. We must also be careful for a further reason. In order to make it possible to achieve a profit target of more than 15% in terms of an investor, so that the Greek State receives its equivalent, you should act with the investor rather than the investor. Show a sense of high responsibility and do not fear any party audiences. The basic prerequisite for the Greek economy to be placed on a trajectory of stable growth, to a national wealth and solid jobs production path is not only the realisation of this project, but also of other similar large-scale investment projects. Like this in the last thirty years, I don't think it ever existed. Another solution to the problem of the country since the realization of a significant volume of investment in the shortest possible time, unfortunately, does not exist. So take on the oenership of the privatizations that you have committed to go ahead rather than the oenership of a supposedly left-wing fear of business and investment, healthy business, healthy investment. Otherwise, inclusive growth will remain a wish. So help the Greek economy to change an example of Greek society, too, to pass through the closure of openness. That'll be very positive, because we never had it. Say goodbye to an outdated, paternalistic, isotopeic state and welcome a state that promotes innovation, extroversion, creation. Because public property is only sold out when it is sprinkled in the waters of a third world activism and not when it is magnified by huge investments of added value, such as the one we are currently dominating. In closing, we arrived at the ratification of the contract by the Greek Parliament after 15 years of adventure. Let's reminisce all this, this entire adventure of fifteen years. It's not just an adventure of the last two years, it's an adventure of fifteen years. There's something wrong with all of us. But it is now a question of starting to implement this great project. Any delay, any overturn, any obstacle will mean a loss of production of national wealth and revenue for the state budget, but at the same time will also mean a further burden on Greek taxpayers. So the Potami in this logic, with this perception, is voting in favour of ratification of the concession agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u77	The special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also told the committee yesterday how important this work is for the Greek economy, which is macroeconomicly, both for homeland, that is to say for all Greeks and for local society. In time I considered - and before I became a politician - unacceptable to have a detailed master plan for a huge project in that country, to have passed through the Court of Auditors and yet nothing has been moved into that country, not to have made any legal or political decision to proceed with the investment. Unfortunately, this space became an area that was so wasted in many illegal associations of the southern suburbs. And, unfortunately, the last year has become a soul store, because this government has been taking along with all the difficult negotiation last year and the enemies - and I'm not afraid of the word - that we had in Europe - Mr. Symble and the others who wanted to get us out of the euro with Plan Z and run through the drachmas and destroy ourselves - to manage the enormous flow of immigrants. At the moment the image of the Greek is an image which is not an ad for Greek democracy, nor for the souls that have been stacked there nor for the failure of this huge investment. The site is attributed to the investment to all Greek citizens. There is no separation of the citizens of the southern suburbs, Glyfada, the Greek, the area of Agios Kosmas, Piraeus, if you like, which is also the largest municipality in the region or port of Piraeus. It is an investment, the largest space regeneration investment in Europe, which must start as soon as possible for too many reasons. I have also heard the opposition colleagues who have haunted in their report why the co-chairman from SYRIZA needs to be quickly involved. I will not stay in detail about the direct and indirect benefits of the economy from VAT, municipal fees, insurance contributions from officials or anything else that they want. First and foremost, there are jobs. If an investment gives you fifty, sixty, seventy thousand jobs directly, together with the rest of the parallel occupations in the neighbouring municipalities - and not only - plus infrastructure, optical fibres, electricity itself, natural gas, roads, bridges to be made, access by train, metro or tram, to and from the port of Piraeus, the largest Mediterranean port now and the largest Mediterranean port after the investment of 'COSCO', along with the airport of 'Eleftherios Venizelos', where the investment has direct access, we can only see it as an important part of the development of the whole of Greece. This development will come because the interests of the Greek State are basically secured, because the public with this investment is now leaving the introversion and is automatically becoming an outward organism, so to speak, if I may say so for the Greek State. The Greek public now comes in - and this has its good and negative, as everyone sees - in a microscope. We're being watched for good and evil. But let's see what's good. As I explained yesterday, this investment is so important for Greece that there must be no mistake and, if possible, God who wants and the appropriate ministries, it must not be delayed, because, in a year now, this country will try to do so, since, within the year of what the Prime Minister said - and we all know it very well and the reasons why it has to be done - we will have the debate on the restructuring of the Greek debt. And it will be - and here I have some disagreements with the honourable friend Mr Drasakis - the restructuring of the debt, because he has a special profile of our debt. We will analyse it in the subcommittee when the time comes. This will significantly reduce the debt-sharing needs, make our debt practically viable. And imagine this government with a sustainable debt now typically and essentially the seal of the ESM, the European partners and the International Monetary Fund, that it should have moved forward and proceeded with the greatest investment in Europe. At this time of the year, when we go out to the markets, all of this must have happened because we have to get out and raise the funds we need for the repayment and repayment of debts with Greek bonds and issues of our own, which must be of better price, lower cost than that achieved by Mr Samaras in 2013, i.e. with simple figures below 4%, 3.75%. That would be something that would give Greece a competitive advantage and show our extroversion. So it is very important that we all follow this investment from a political point of view, not with a political cape, blue, green or red or orange glasses. We need to see this investment nationally. We will all watch month after month, week how it goes after the start of the investment since the vote, the ratification of this law. The Opposition will do well to work towards it and not just stay in political intelligence within the House to win the television time and rally its voters, produce creative, documentary work, so that we can control and go ahead with this investment. Let us make this investment all together in this Parliament. I think I have said other times that tourism is a national sport, a national sport, a national need, so this is a national investment. I hope we've all understood that. The office of Greek is of special importance and gravity. I said yesterday that it is extremely important that this office, which is intended to take out licences, take the files, organise and organise communications and permits between the co-legislative ministries, be accountable, whenever appropriate, to its executives, which will be sufficient, not only in cognitive terms but also in professional terms. They will have all the time dedicated to this very important task to report to the Minister of Finance and to the Prime Minister himself, who, I am sure, will receive this work under his cover and will proceed with it as he should very quickly. The Greek office is an extremely important tool. We'll support it, we'll check it out. At any time, if problems arise, it should come to the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance, together with us, the Independent Greeks, who are in the government, but also all my fellow Members, find a solution for the project together. The infrastructure in Greece is very important. The tourist product will be upgraded, as will the visitability in Attica and the southern municipalities. This comes out not only from statistics, but also from studies that exist. I have statistics from the organisation of Europe's airports for visiting all local airports. This shows that flights to Greece are increasing by over 22% in many tourist destinations and in Athens. These flights will increase within the Greek. This tourist product is also a national object, so we must not delay another tourist product, which will be the Greek product itself, which will help Greece's total tourism product. I insist that we and we have a great responsibility for the Members of Parliament to train - let me have the term - all citizens regardless of their party in extroversion. This country no longer can afford to talk to the cafes about what it would be nice to decide for our local society between us, without even looking at the next municipality or the next house or the next neighborhood, let alone the whole country. We'll have to look at the whole good. The investment is very important. It is part of the investments, as I said yesterday, of the great arch, which is over 40 km and starts from Perama - as a MP II Piraeus I know the tortured Perama with unemployment and ship repair zone - to Sounio. There's no better place geopolitically, this beauty doesn't exist anywhere in the world. I've travelled quite a lot myself, but you all together even more. This coastline is nowhere in the world. Going to Sounio and seeing the kids killed in Limanakia, I'm sorry, but that doesn't show a serious country under development. This must not continue. What are we going to provide to the tourist who goes with the coach in Sunio? Watching cocks and machines get killed by confronting coaches? Do you know what I've seen this year going three times with friends from abroad in Sounio? We went to kill ourselves by car, and there was coaches with tourists, who almost had a frontal collision with a car that made knots. This has to stop. How will it stop? But it's very simple. It will stop when the investments continue. This government will do it, but it will set terms. There will be no immunity from previous governments. I've heard before the members of the Democratic Alliance now. They're ashamed to report the PASOK. Yesterday, we were advertised on the 2004 Olympiad. The file will be opened. What 2004 Olympics are we talking about? For what projects of 9 billion? What duvets have you left us since 2004, looking at them and crying today? The nerve's too much. From now on, whatever work is done, it will be for the good of all the Greeks. This coastal front, the Riviera - I do not like the term - is better to find a more practicable term, Greek - will become a brand, the best in the Mediterranean, than the best in the world. Therefore, the work of the Greek is an organisational, decision-making, legal and administrative exercise. This is why the entire investment in Attica is going to start, and it will be a model project. In this process the government will acquire, with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, just to say a manual. We'll know what we're doing in similar investments. We'll know what's wrong. We will have done 'debugging', which my Anglo-Saxons are saying, all the procedures. We'll take it down. Then the next investment will come and we'll know what's happened. And this methodicality, this team goal and the result will show the image that this country needs abroad, so that it will emerge from the bonds of the memoranda and surveillance and go out to the markets at a competitive rate. I'm telling you, they're watching us. And that, like I said before, has his goods and his bads. If things don't happen, not the way the bad markets want them, because the markets want you to do what you're saying, so they know they're gonna put their money on and they don't have to put their money sometime weird, and I'm gonna lose it myself or my investor or my shareholder, or any administrative board will go to jail for infidelity, because he put his money where he shouldn't have or believed someone he shouldn't believe. We need to be reliable interlocutors and reliable partners in every investment. And protect the investment, not by lion-shaped “Venizelos” contracts. We were advertised yesterday and Mr. Laliotis' Venizelos's "Venezello" that you can't build an airport in a hundred kilometers and with such fees for the Spatas. In other words, they have done the non-competitive airport of all times in the Mediterranean right now, and they advertised it to us as a huge project and "What work we did at the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport. I don't want to get into this. That's not what SYRIZA - Independent Greeks will do. It will also lay down the terms and rules of involvement so that there can be transparency. I close, saying: extroverting within principles of law and democracy, full transparency. I would also ask the relevant ministers to inform the House of everything they need to help, whether technically or politically, or in the local communities, so that the project can proceed as soon as possible. We will not forgive illegality at any level. The Independent Greeks have a special sensitivity, like everyone, I imagine, to the illegality and the various people who intruse for special and personal benefit in various investment processes. It will all be transparent and clear, to make this investment model for Greece and to get out of its stagnation "nothing happens in this country, it's okay, it's clinically dead investment and administrative." Let's change face. Political careers will be built from here on top of the truth and the result - it wants work - and not on the cafeteria we have all done. Work and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u79	And we're closing down with the special speaker from the Centro Association, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the difficult course of the Greeks for exiting the crisis, we have all had to accept that we need bloody economies and strict management of the few funds left over from the state funds. We also learned to look for the wonderful equivalents. No one found them, but everyone promised they'd find them. For the efforts of Prime Minister Tsipras to find equivalent, we learn from the announcements of lenders who each time reject his proposal. Where Mr. Mitsotakis will find the money to pay for what the Prime Minister is not paying and to reduce and by 30% HNVIA will speak to us after he first became Prime Minister on the country's benches. No one has really found an equivalent measure. This is evidenced by the many incidents of equivalent communication, but which have been lifted in full because they have been against the refusal of our creditors. So it is known to all Greeks that we are not just looking for equivalents. We're looking for equivalently acceptable to everyone, both from the inside and from the outside. What we are talking about here today is an equivalent. Investments are an equivalent. It is the best equivalent, because it does not charge the Greek people tax. Lending is not, but investment is. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here today in the name of the Greek people about an agreement which we have not been able to reach and which we cannot at present change even one word, even one party. It is an investment whose details are not as well known as they should be. Neither the necessary public consultation has been carried out properly nor has there been any specific provision for the complete information of the inhabitants of the regions directly affected by what we are doing here today, in this Chamber. The citizens are mainly concerned because they remember what Mr Tsipras said earlier and perceive the distance between what they have promised and what the current rulers actually do. A few fellow citizens are concerned about whether this agreement is accompanied by the strategic environmental impact study that clearly provides for a European directive on this subject, Directive 42/2001. Most of the citizens simply wonder in the welcome attitude of those who today have the responsibility to oppose - supposedly - the effective control of government work. However, contrary to what he said, contrary to his planning positions and at least to his political ideology, SYRIZA is now forced to conclude an agreement which is true that he had fought, an agreement which is the result of the former governments of the New Democracy. A few things the current government has been able to add, without that we underestimate the value of the results of the SYRIZA negotiation. It is not at all small or insignificant the maintenance costs of the metropolitan park that will be created within the next seven years and that the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENTS’ has now been undertaken. Also, all projects of general interest, reconstruct and reconstruct ramps, construction of pedestrians, pavement roads, regeneration of a one-kilometre coastal front, as well as accessibility projects for SMEs are important and equally important. It is also important for the company to participate half, that is to say 50%, in the cost of the study and construction of a recyclable material sorting centre, which will be built outside the Greek area, on a plot that will be granted by the Greek State. It was expected and known that the details would make a difference. It is indeed a lot and crucial that the points of interest of the first essentially organised effort should be used and not sold out the property of the Greek public. What is judged and will be judged by the success of this investment which has the potential to change - and it will change - in a catalytic way the face of Athens and Piraeus, is whether the Greeks are ready to manage their luck if they can create and maintain a healthy investment environment, because that is exactly the bet, that is, whether we can create and maintain a healthy investment environment. In a country where investment is going away, where its economy is hostage to bureaucracy, and where its tactics to simply disagree to disagree are widespread to a great extent, it is difficult to talk about growth. However, the fact that efforts are being made to support them by the overwhelming majority of the political forces, so that significant investment can proceed quickly and with positive results for the citizens, may ultimately become the beginning of a new era of consensus and consensus. A special reference should be made today to the commitments made by the Greek State. If anything goes wrong due to the actions or omissions of the Greek state, the Greek Government, then the price will be very heavy. The provisions which provide for what will happen if the administration fails to support the current agreement in the way it is envisaged are particularly strict. They are forecasts which were deemed intentional precisely for the same reason that Greece had to make additional guarantees of 50 billion with the latest inappropriate memorandum, inappropriate to the extent of its commitments. The lack of credibility leads to difficult situations and creates risks. In such great works, the chances of something going wrong are just as great. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the agreed implementation and implementation of this investment must be done in an exemplary way, especially because they will be the example on which we will be relying on to exploit and not to sell public property. We have been able to find all the positive results of this investment. We have found a common place and can now agree and put the necessary seal of consensus in the bill so that the investor is not afraid that the next ones will come and a law will destroy everything, destroy everything, in the name of their own change. I would like to stand in particular from the point of view of this: this value is not to pass bills with the hundred and fifty-three votes in the coup d'état. The bills that are voted by only one hundred and fifty three votes are followed by the shadow of the next. We have badly hurt not only the credibility of the Greek state, but also its continuity. Do you think any investor will accept to put his money when he's afraid of the next one? We all know that nobody is crazy to invest in an environment that is not stable. And in order to be seen as a stable environment, we need a policy of arguments and consensus, a clear and stable tax environment, a more effective implementation of justice and, of course, compliance with the laws. So the practice followed by today's Census - not in today's bill, of course - as the current government followed when it was in Anti-Population, can easily be regarded as totally irresponsible. Whenever Mr. Tsipras threatened to abolish laws in one day with an article, except for the same credibility of the country, her authority was also reduced. Equally unacceptable and loss-making is what the Chief of Officer Representation is doing today when he threatens to change everything and "real" the wrong laws of the "first-time Left". I am saying this in order to highlight the need for strong support for this investment, in order to quickly implement it in a way that will prove to everyone, first to us Greeks themselves, and then to those who are interested in investing, that we are able to agree with each other and that even to what we disagree, we are trying to find the gold incision, without in the intermediate to "frozen" and to deceive everything. Greece needs to be united. With this assumption in mind, we choose to support this agreement. We are committed to monitoring it closely and, through the exercise of parliamentary control, to looking at and to prove possible problems and suggest solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u81	The cycle of general rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. As I said, by way of derogation and at the request of Mr Loverdou, he will take the floor as a parliamentary representative. The Minister for Culture will follow Mr Baltas. Mr. Dendias will also speak, because I assume Mr. Mandas will want to speak towards the end. And immediately afterwards we will enter the procedure where three Members will speak on the list, one parliamentary representative, and so on. I would like to say, however, that I have not heard from any of the speakers - something which has come to my attention and I now address Mr Baltas, because the government must answer - to ask what will happen to the thousands of refugees and immigrants who are in Greek, if there is a relocation plan, when it will begin, when it will end, where will they go. Let's not see the bulldozers enter the Greek for the investment and the immigrants are there. I assume the government will be able to inform the Greek Parliament of this planning. It's something I didn't hear from anyone. At the moment, the Greek is not free. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, it is truly very nice for the President of this House to say something that gives me the opportunity - and as a Member of the Athens Region, but also as a politician - to ask the government. Indeed, the mayors who were here yesterday and you heard them for a very short time - the people have protested afterwards, because the Rules of Procedure of the House define it - should give them more time to talk about such a large investment programme. They would also tell you about the problems that exist in Greek by refugees - immigrants. There are many times, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, who go there, saying'something is being destroyed', 'it is not important to the environment', 'there is no good organization', 'there are any topics'. Now it's not the Step of the House to tell which one. But if you walk and don't drive, you see them with a naked eye. Are you going to see these matters as the competent ministers, as the government responsible? What are you gonna do? Thank you very much, Mr President, because the labelling was really serious. Are we going to get out of space there, or are you happy with the view that the area has of your organizational skill and political movements? That's something you need to see. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is in a real match. A real match! Where's he going with it? To transfer this to social demands, to the layers that he was pro-electionally provoking the majority? He's got the C.E.D. he cut! It has subsidiarys who have suffered a 40% reduction! Those of you who went out to the public speech and said that this would not happen, you are also personally politically exposed, but the government as a whole. How's it going to be there in society? It can't be! Should he take it to the economy, to the recession? The recession was 0.3% in the first trimester and 0.9% in the second trimester. And see where the year will close! And these are some billions, which if they are not collected as a result of development from the insurance funds and taxes, we will see how you will give the 200,000 000 more to health, which you are telling us here, but also to the public outside your Parliament. Could you take it to the channels, which was the only thing the Prime Minister was going up to Thessaloniki and had something to say about? There the journalists Evangelia Tsikraka and Irene Savvopoulou sent him his mouth and made him come out of his clothes. He lost them to two working women. Tell us about the SYRIZA Bank that finances SYRIZA Channel, as the PASOK announcement says yesterday? Is that why you're going to tell us? What can you say about that? Here we find out just now that the five-member competition committee for the channels has declared the successful tenderers definitively - listen, ladies and gentlemen! - because he appreciated after his audit that he had power over the money he declared he had power to distribute. Power of disposal, which the report reveals does not exist. These gentlemen have criminal responsibility for this false attestation above all, but also for others. Where are you going? In the conclusion we ask you for the Attica Bank from 31 August and yesterday, after the pressure of events, did you say that at last we would ask, as if some as a majority were afraid? And well, the government that appoints Mr. Pantalakis. It's good! It's good because he's experienced. Put a class! But, a few days ago, your Members of the Committee of Inquiry humiliated him! They were shaking him! Will people not, then, feel a political weakness? You had them play a political role and they believed him. And now you are presenting them as if you were not counting on the dignity of your parliamentary group. What about the sea loans that you were talking about? That the minority of the media that took the loans and did not pay their debts has a strong pro-government climate. And when the time comes for the findings, they will be the names at the disposal of everything. And what are you gonna say? Will you tell me about the refugee? Will you take the agenda off the others so you can go to the refugee? What about the refugee? The number of refugees in Greece is increasing and the problems, with the tensions we have experienced in the last few days, with the Greek, mentioned by the President and I too. What are you gonna say? There you will make a demonstration of humanism for internal consumption as long as it takes you, because tensions, as we learn, within you are not at all small. What are you gonna say? About the investments? Are you going to take the conversation there? You do it as fast as you can. Why do you do it as fast as you can? Because you contradict yourself until yesterday, with what you were saying. And what can anyone tell you first? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I was going to make an extensive report and I've picked up what's available on the Internet. I will not, because Mr Constantinople and other colleagues have done so. Let me just show you: "The Greek is not sold" - "SYRIZA Call at a gathering", with speakers from Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and MPs, then, Mr. Durou and Nadia Valavani. Let me tell you, surfing Odysseus Constantinople's arguments, about what the Technical Chamber said and Mr. Spirtzis said. He said incredible things, in addition to the interventions he made in justice and which the rapporteur mentioned a few minutes ago. He spoke of a sale by the dear now Minister, at a price corresponding to a plot in Brahati. Well, aren't you embarrassed? What are you? The rival union? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] What are you, finally? Are you a political party? Do you have political dignity? What are you? Are you an organized group that wants authority and took authority by convicting the opponents? What are you? Aren't you embarrassed? In other words, you have no political emotiveness within you to say: 'You, a few months ago, I said another, that the Greek is not sold'. And French. I have here a picture of Mrs. Durou with the slogan "Greek is not for sale", to translate accurately, in French, to send a message from outside the country. Well, aren't they ashamed? Is that possible? It is not possible for a pretentious man who respects himself and says: "Here I am, as long as the citizens want, then I will return to my neighborhood and my work and other people will see me say the alpha on Monday and the omega on Wednesday, to say about the "TRAINOSE" that took 300 million - which was then offered by TRAINOSE - on previous governments, that it is the price of the joke, it is a sale." And sell him with what the market says "Mitroglu clause". If sold by Benfika, the team should definitely get 15 or 20 million euros. Sell the public property with "Mitroglou clauses" and say a little more than ten times the price of small and sale. Well, aren't you ashamed? So there's no politics at all? Say, "I can't take it, man, I can't take it. Maybe I was wrong. I cannot support the omega when I said the alpha." There should have been a reaction. There is, we learn. It exists, it's insane. It'll be expressed. We'll see when. It's none of our business. What I want to tell you from now on is that you are politically evaporating, you are evaporating politically. And as long as your time of staying in power passes, you will get more to reunite your election rates before 2012, the little ones, the one-digit ones, but without your companions, without half of you, who have gone away, and with thoughts of our own opportunists of authority who have left, not because they loved you or loved you, but because they have smelled that authority goes to that. They'll stay for you. They're married to you. These are what you are "wine" today with what we learn about banks and loans. And with them, you should go hand in hand to 4%! Because, and if one were to say that one goal was to overcome the recession and to come to growth, one had to see target co-determinations. To see them seriously, to know what he says, to measure the time in front of him and to account in this time for the necessary political moves. The majority Members are told that development law will deliver on a development level. Members have put it, after you voted on it, and here and outside the House in the public debate. No one listens to this unpleasantly when it is announced. But let's see what tool it has done. We have told you here several times that you have brought in as a development law, in life-saving 2016, the 2004 development model with micro-changes and without capital. This model, however, proved to be inadequate and bureaucratic, filled with delays. Therefore, service through corruption, 'grey zone'. So, for someone who borrows without "dad in the Koroni", to get this money after the plan has been approved, bankruptcy is the most confident prospect. It will take money, Minister, only whoever has it. He'll get some money. However, anyone who borrows to serve lending through development will face the delays of bureaucracy and corruption and the range of bankruptcy. I hear you spoke in Thessaloniki about licenses. I wish. But what you said about licensing is the reproduction of a recent and older past. I mean, say we change the regime, but don't change it. Let's just say we're taking something away, but life can add more. What you said in Thessaloniki about licenses is funny things for someone watching Greek bureaucracy and the obstacles it has put into entrepreneurship for decades and says something needs to be changed. We hear you say investment from abroad. They want fiscal stability. There is no investment that has been made and that you do not charge it, because of a third memorandum, by tax or VAT. How will we have a stable tax environment, since a few months ago, alpha or beta investment, as you know, took us to the courts, why did we increase VAT or increase taxation? The stable political environment wants two things that you either have or don't have: the first is to do with the revision of the Constitution, whenever it happens, laws of increased formal force - which you don't have - and to need two hundred MPs to change the law. So that's referred for later. It is one of the proposals that I have made on a personal level. Secondly, or decide and consent to the political system that some things will not hurt them. You're the one who hurt all the investments. How will you now suggest that we support you so that you do not harm everyone else or the new ones? You are absolutely, but completely insolvent to organize the meeting of a state and economy at another level. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no more time. I want to close up with something irrelevant but very serious. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the tolerance of the Bureau, but it is a matter of dangers of human life. And I want this House, Mr. Toskas and the people in charge to listen to me. On Sunday, some non-governmental organizations are carrying out a struggle in the center of Athens with a view, through sponsorship, to strengthening the fight against cancer. I participated with my children last year. Ladies and gentlemen, for humanitarian reasons - I have no objection - but also for reasons of publicity very chic, in a way, it is customary for certain things to be done, sporting or artistic, but without attention being paid to people, in the face of the glazedness, not to be aware of the dangers you pose to people's lives. Last year, since the startup was given until we got to the starting point, it took about forty minutes. If anything happened to "patients" people, we would mourn little children. We'd mourn dozens of victims of little children. And then I made a complaint. I talked to the police chief today, and he immediately understood what this was all about. If the relevant federation does not grant approval that the safety conditions are met, the event shall be prohibited on Sunday. In the last, or in the last, we mourned a victim, we had a dead man. Please tell Mr. Toska very much. The chief's the one who told him. I have no business at all to inform him. Tell the Minister not to make this route. I've declared participation and my children will be, but I'll take them aside, with the experience I've had since last year. But people don't know that. He doesn't know the difference that these events have from the SINGLE events. So, damn it, the approval of a federation that knows the safety athletics and then the police will allow it. If that's not the case, don't do it. If anything bad happens, I in the House have said so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Baltas has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer a little to Mr Georgiadis, who has given me the honour of addressing me constantly in answering or responding to something I said yesterday, and it is a good thing that Mr Loverdos' speech, because the essence of what I have to say about Mr Georgiadis, is covered by the criticism I would have done and Mr Loverdos. More specifically, what was the point, Mr Georgiadis? Let me begin by saying that in return for a compliment that, in relation to my SYRIZA colleagues, I like your speech. You are vivid, eloquent, you raise blood when you talk, we are all watching you and at the same time the good with this type of talk is that you reveal some things that may not be fully conscious of at the pace of your normal talk. What do I mean? You have mentioned many times, and in your well-known vivid and vivid way, the ideological hegemony of the Left and you have attributed to the ideological hegemony of the Left all that has happened in the country over your governments and PASOK. So it is as if the Left's ideology over all these years prevailed underground, prevent you from doing things that you wanted during liberalism, since you said so, which you prefer, Mr. So you will allow me, referring to this part of your speech, to say that it reminds me, a little distorting Marx, of a phrase: "A ghost is deceiving in the New Democracy, the ghost of the rulership of the Left". And the unconsciousness of this ghost and that perception, I think, can tell if we are going to go to another great thinker, Freud, not to talk about sexual and other things, but to talk about a mechanism that is very specific, the mechanism of refusal: something that devours me, something that I cannot confront, I cannot confront consciously, deny it, by shouting, repeating very strongly and often 'I will not be led by the Left' ideology. I won't be led by the left ideology. I am a liberal." This whole form basically says that the Left does have the moral advantage. I am not saying this as a political argument to discuss this in particular, but I am saying this to continue the last debate I have been telling you - and without apparently wishing to teach you anything, but humbly as a student - that somewhere your political tactics toward us does not help you and your party, because what it sends us does not correspond to any kind of reality. In my opinion, the main feature of a good policy is to understand the opponent, to understand what the opponent says, possibly to whisper about what he says, to whistle about the inconsistency of words and works, but to start with what the opponent says. I'm coming back to something I said yesterday. Politics has certain features which are a little complex. Politics is not about who's a liar, who's doing a fucking thing, who's saying other things, and today says other things, as Mr. Loverdos just said. "Before the elections you said this about the Greek, today you say this about the Greek, so you're a liar, so you don't have to exist here, so we'll come with the motto "go live the truth". That's not politics. Politics is to understand, firstly, what you say and what the opponent says and, secondly, to try to understand in the course of a road because at a time, someone says "alpha", which event happened in between and forced to say "bottom" and how the "bottom" and the "bottom" are connected on a path that this politician draws. So I was saying yesterday and I repeat today that our party, SYRIZA, speaks of generation and even before - some of its components, most of them - for a concept called 'democratic road to socialism'. The contents of this term have definitions of the type "structural changes, long road, not instant, retreats, compromises, wins, defeats". This whole road is bound by some principles and some values, which are stable all along this road. So, in this sense, when we are in over-represented relationships, relationships that cannot be overcome, correlations that force us, as I said yesterday, to back up, compromise, to suffer a defeat recognised, that does not mean that after defeat and continuing with the same path, we say other than what we said before on the substance. We say something that recognises the fact of a defeat, recognizes in this fact that we need to adapt, make the compromise demanded by defeat, to continue the struggle. So simple, so clear. So what we have been talking about before and what we are talking about is not in the form of the contradiction you are pointing out, because you know that something is being done on this road. Because principles and values are stable, we can change things that have been inherited from the previous ones. So on the Greek Convention, because exactly our values and principles are stable and because in these ways we want to approach the development issues of the country, we could make very significant improvements to the agreement that we received. You don't understand that again. You say, "But there was a master plan that said it all." The master plan, however, Mr Georgiadis, is not something that binds anyone. The master plan is a report of ideas that says good intentions and if you put on the best intentions of the investor without binding changes to what he's supposed to do, it would probably go much worse than you think. I said something else yesterday. I said that in relation to the road to socialism there is another dimension. That's where we had no big disagreements. There we could probably have more solutions. There is also the 'Greek road' dimension. The "Greek road" has two features: One is the history of this country, the successive cultures in millennium scales, which are under our feet, the need to highlight and protect them, the fact that makes us what they call "a centre of visitability", not just to come to give their money, but to understand themselves and any different culture from theirs. That's the one feature. The second and equally important feature is that Greece is a country of special natural beauty - if you like - with those beaches with which neither Riviera nor Costa Brava are compared, with that easy access from the top of the mountain to the plain and from there to the sea in a very short period of time, with all possible diversity per island and per region, per mountain, every time. These two together make Greece the only, not more unique, because we are not nationalists in the bad sense. Each country has its uniqueness. However, this is our uniqueness. This uniqueness must be observed, respected as the daughter of an eye and in the light of this uniqueness to see investment. And I come to the investments. Investment is not something which we, in capitalism and in the present circumstances, find ourselves opposed. It is something, however, which we consider to be as far as possible and as far as possible to monitor them in relation to parameters such as those I have just said. It is in this sense that every investment proposed to be seen by ad hoc, each one separately, is due as a government. Let us see how it is consistent with the features I have said above: the place of special archaeological interest in long breath, a place of particular natural beauty. These are the features. From there on are the characteristics of how the Greeks live and work in this place, what it means to small production, small industry, small investment at a level, and on this basis also to see large investments, each one separately and choose what is proposed in relation to these features. And since we choose them, respect them, honor our signatures to them. If you have the impression that when the connections change, we will take back what we say today about this investment, don't say it. We're honoring our signature. We will honour our signatures. From that point on, we'll make it easier for investors. The Ministry of Culture has been trying to do everything possible to protect the heritage and the environment, but also to improve the conditions of bureaucracy, improve the conditions under which investment can quickly go, respect the investor. Because the Ministry of the Environment too has something to do with what investors think, I can assure you that the serious people prefer a complete plan of terms and conditions for their investment and are not - at least the serious investors - the predator investors. In various media in various panels, there, on television and elsewhere, it is said that the Ministry of Culture brakes the investment in Afantos, brakes the investment in the Greek because it raises archaeological issues. In this respect, I can assure you that the Ministry of Culture, before taking over, had demonstrated at the time political leaderships and what needs to be done in terms of archaeology in Afantou and what needs to be done in terms of archaeology in Greek. But, mysteriously, how the governments at the time refused to see these suggestions of their services, because they probably thought: "Let it go better, where to get into this. The more the landscape is involved and we don't know when and whether the Archaeological Service will make the "alpha" or "beet", the more easily we can with corridors and sideways talk to the "alpha" investor, bring him against the "beam" investor and so on. It's over. We want to create a proper regulation for all major investments, for which exactly the Ministry of Culture is involved, and on what terms, where bureaucracy does not need to be involved and red tape increased. From there on, the investor understands that when he comes to investing here - and we are, of course, talking about large investors - he is investing in Greece. It invests in a country whose brand name, as I said yesterday - market term, neoliberal term - is based both on its natural heritage and its heritage and therefore its investment gains from this brand name. This brand name, therefore, in market terms is a exchangeable product. This investor understands and says: "In order to use this brand name, of course, I must commit and respect the terms that this country tells me in terms of archaeology and environment." That's our policy. As far as this investment is concerned, I have a list here - I will not read it to you, other colleagues will be further developed - for the eight, ten points, which are significantly improved by the convention we are currently adopting. As far as the convention was concerned, which you say - I repeat - the annex to which you have referred is a report of ideas without any sort binding on what had to be followed from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u86	I beg your pardon, but I thought that speakers would be put forward, Mr President, and I would speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u87	I thought you had asked for the floor, Mr Tindemans, and I had you and three speakers later. If you want to go to speakers, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u88	I am simply saying this so that the Members do not feel that the order is changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u89	Good. Mr. Beyalas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I said yesterday in committee that we saw a position from the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations, which was like a theatrical performance. Today, of course, he took other better features, where he has a comedy time. So, in other words, one could say that this theatrical performance was a comedy. And that, of course, happened trying to analyse us how we have made changes to what we are saying. The Minister, of course, gave here Mr Baltas and a psychoanalytical view of the matter. Consider that the bill, which we are voting on today, is something they vote on. But you are trying to prove to us that perhaps we should not vote on it while you are positive. Yeah, but it's our proposal. It is our change in this convention. And there is significant changes in this contract from the original contract, which you have made, which you diligently avoid answering and reporting. Consider that the rapporteur for the Officerial Representation of all the major changes that the investment has, that he goes further a billion to social investment - the 915 that is the price, because this one and a half billion does not go to debt repayment, but to real investment projects that are jobs - it would be preferable to demand the successful tenderer that he give us extra money...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u91	Let the successful man go! That's a forbidden word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u92	It's not forbidden at all. For you she's forbidden to be afraid of auctions. On the one hand, you accept that auctions are good and, on the other, you don't like them. Everything at an auction. That's the auction. In the company, which took the project, would it be preferable to ask for extra money and go to the debt or one and a half billion that will fall as an investment? There's no mention of that. Is becoming a free park bothering you? A closed park became free and free to all citizens. The fact that a kilometre of beach is freely given to the citizens you mentioned it as follows, 'you have changed the arrangement to the sea'. So you see it and so you see all the additional positive changes made to the contract, such as that the investor takes over the maintenance and preservation of the metropolitan park, that 51% of the nominal part will be paid by 2018, that the investment is increased. All these changes to you were 'the little will change the arrangement'. It is understandable that to haunt all of your anti-government tactics and that's all you could say, and that's why you're shouting at the intense style that characterizes you. And that's why you come to tell us that in the past twenty years that this project should have already been exploited, SYRIZA didn't leave you. I told you yesterday that if you declare such a weakness of government, if you say that it does not leave you 3% to govern, so, gentlemen, the people very well sent you to the opposition, because if you were to rule in a difficult period, all you could do is screw up, like, all the years that you have been ruling that you have structured a state that could not exploit the Greek state, it could not exploit the Olympic works that have become a rhyme. This government is sure to do so, of course, then will you come back to us again, 'What are you doing? Are you making investments? You're losing your ideological identity." We do not lose our ideological identity, because our ideological identity has specific directions, rules, investments in which the archaeological service will clearly have the legislative framework and where every investor will be controlled, neither immunity nor a dead situation from the archaeological service, which will not go any further. You tell us how much we have lost, how much the country has lost - to be costed - in the two years that the investment has not taken place. In the eighteen years that you had it dead, will you tell us how much he lost? And if you want to weigh these things, if over the past decade - where the cost, but also the value of the land was much higher - then, gentlemen, you have ruled, in the 2000s, you were exploiting the Greek, it is certain that with the then current prices its value would clearly be higher. Why didn't you? How much have been lost of what you have not dared, perhaps why would you want to find your own people, to give it on their own terms? These are issues that you cannot answer and that is why you have this problem, that is to say, to be able to further haunt the risk that SYRIZA is against investment. This account is broken down and that is why you are in a confusion. We heard something more amazing about Riviera picking up the money. You said that it could, of course, - and it is a given - be lower natural than the Greek beaches, but Riviera is collecting all the money. And Mr. Georgiadis renounces us and says: “What are you doing for two years? You're the one who kicked them out!' He's absolutely right. I remember that before 2014 all these stunned tourists came and flooded the Greek beaches and Riviera was a cranial place, not a man at that time. Because until the time the New Democracy ruled all came here and as soon as SYRIZA arrived, in 2015, they were afraid and went to Riviera and we were left without tourists. Is that possible? That is why I said that in the end the suggestion was a very nice, very pleasant - I would say - a comedy performance. You, gentlemen, have structured this state and made Riviera full of, to collect rich tourism and Greece not accepting it, to be empty. Why? Because you have never laid down rules, you have never made substantial investments, you have done everything in the glue and only with the best friends. I'll say one more thing that I liked so much and I'll close. In fact, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the New Democracy will be vigilantly following all the evolution of the project. I couldn't agree more. For the next twelve years that the project will be implemented, you will be in the opposition and will watch the good course of the project closely, a project that SYRIZA will do to change Greece. There you will be twelve years, vigilant to watch us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Metakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the suppression of yet another pre-election fuller of SYRIZA, which neither Mr Baltas' philosophical searches nor the fact that the relevant Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, spoke yesterday to the committee and is absent today from the process. That's the reality. We are discussing today the ratification of a major investment for the country, which the Antonis Samaras government signed in 2014. That's the reality. Of course SYRIZA was against the investment. Not with the details mentioned by the Minister or the previous speaker, he was opposed to the very idea of privatization, which is now being ratified. And at every opportunity you assured the public, your election audience that you will cancel the relevant procedures. These commitments, like almost all your commitments, have been forgotten. In this case - to tell the truth - it is good for the country. But there is a cost. There's a lot of cost to this relic. It's the loss of the credibility of our country. It is the image of a country that fights investment, fights businesses, which eventually after the 2014 recovery returned the country to the recession and 2015 and 2016 and probably also in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment in Greek was not a fragmentary investment. The ERC with a detailed study published in 2014 recorded specific investment projects of 37.6 billion euros, attracted by our country in two years 2012-2014, of which four investments are the Greek over EUR 1 billion each. And what you have done recently on projects, projects, investments, launched by the previous government: the privatisation of the PPA, the TAP pipeline, the concession of the fourteen regional airports, the roads and now the Greek one. But all the great effort that this country has done, which we stepped on our feet, that we went to the recovery in 2014 was undermined by your policy, was undermined by your ideas. Even the development law you voted recently is still inactive. There is now an absolute investment apnea in the country. No new investor is approaching Greece. I would also like to stress that the development of the Greek was not an autonomous project, it was based on the integrated effort to exploit the coastal front, the Athenian Riviera, with the homonymous company, which operated outside the TSE. I remind you of your first bill in the humanitarian crisis bill. Looking to see why you abolished this company and eventually all the properties of Athenian Riviera were driven to the TIAD. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that on 8 April 2014 I had the honour of representing the government at the Committee on Economic Affairs of the House at an extraordinary meeting requested by SYRIZA in order to defend the investment of the Greek. Can I remind you what you were saying then? That we're giving the Greek. That we're in breach of the public interest. That we're selling out the public property. And the Prime Minister himself today, Mr. Tsipras, on the same line then - remember? - with Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou implied the legality of procedures to safeguard the public interest. The treasure's carbon! You forgot everything. It has been almost two years since the competition for the Greek and of course this delay, despite the amending contract you bring, nothing positive arises. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, you are selling the same size for the same period of time, you are collecting the same price and creating the same metropolitan park for ninety years, with the infrastructure being made by the investor, with two thousand acres of parks. The Minister said something very important in his position: he confirmed that the only thing the amending contract does is to adapt the contract to the master plan that the company wanted to do. Do you know what this is called in the language of the House? This is the first time that the Commission has adopted a The company wanted to do this master plan. The contract was giving a little more than that. You got it back. The company didn't want it. You didn't win anything. However, one spokesman of SYRIZA will appear - one of the few written today - and he will say that the payment has changed, that we will take 51% of the price in the first two years. Are we serious? That's a gift. According to the original contract in November 2016, 300 million euros were to be entered into the public funds. Now, with the delay? Whatever comes in, it will enter November 2018, at a time when you are cutting off the widow's pensions for 11 million euros. And according to IOBE you lost 1 billion euros for the Greek economy from this two-year delay. But, ladies and gentlemen, the crucial question is what happens if you can, with the Left's ideology, contribute to the realisation of the investment and the creation of the tens of thousands of jobs that are envisaged. Priority: Can you hand over the space as provided for in the contract? Today, the airport site has become a refugee park, an outbreak of pollution, with enormous risks to both residents and the immigrants themselves who are stacked there. Secondly, you must immediately send the Hellenic Office to the Ministry of Finance. Of course, Mr Minister, I would like you to take note of a proposal. It would now be appropriate, due to the delay in staffing of the Hellenic Office, to transfer these responsibilities to the already operating Central Authorising Authority of the Ministry of Economy, established by Law 4146/2013, which has a structure approved by the Council of State by means of a Presidential Decree, has the expertise to implement major investments. Of course, there are many other steps to be taken: the presidential decrees on land use, building permits, the casino contest, to set up a special administrative body for the management of free spaces. Light, water, telephone, to the quantity required must come to the extent. These, ladies and gentlemen, require a government that believes in investment. Finally, I believe that many of these public obligations will soon fall into the backs of the next government, the New Democracy. As we managed to complete the competition, as we managed through the «Invest in Greece» to attract funds from the United Arab Emirates, from China, who participate in the consortium, so we will in practice be able to create and contribute to the implementation of the greatest urban renewal in Europe, a project that changes the image of Athens, the image of Attica, the image of the whole of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the Minister responsible, Mr Baltas, is not here. It referred to investments, parameters, etc. He should be here to hear our own arguments about whether it is a real investment, as well as about the unscrupulous factors that we heard yesterday at the hearing. In the draft law on the ratification of the stock purchase contract for the acquisition of 100% of the company's share capital "ELLINIKI SA" and for the amending contracts and arrangements of other relevant issues, today as yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u97	There is no Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u98	It's okay, they'll hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u99	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u100	I'm sure they're watching. Today, like yesterday, at the hearing of bodies, we heard once again the co-pilots beating with the MPs of Officerial Opposition, the New Democracy, on which idea is the sale of public property and the protests...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u101	Stop! They're posing us as democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u102	Please, let your colleague speak. Your space expresses itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u103	He's obligated the Minister to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u104	There's another Minister here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u105	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u106	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u107	No, it's not. You're lying. There's no Minister here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, there is no Minister here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u109	It's been a minute, outside, my colleague. Wasn't he here 30 seconds ago? Are we looking for any of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u110	It's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u111	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u112	You see they really care very much about the point of view of all the political parties! This bill should normally apply to the entire Ministerial Council. And the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport - Mr. Spirtzi - and everyone. Unfortunately, however, you can see that, apart from the way, we are generally treated as Golden Dawn, they are completely indifferent to the view of a large part of Greek society. But I will continue, because I am sure that the Minutes will also read and watch on television. So we heard yesterday and today that the co-pilots with the Civic Opposition on whose idea is the sale of public property and the protests why SYRIZA had not supported the sale when the New Democracy was a government. What do we got here? A direct assumption that you are indeed the same. Left and right are exactly the same. But we should start over. Yesterday, when competitor Zaroulia asked to be present at the hearing of the bodies, spokesperson of the HSE, the Executive President, Mr Balauras, said that there was no such reason. Really, how many times did we hear the word TIAD yesterday? Also, in a question put to the institutions by the competitor Panagiotaros, in particular the representative of IOBE, Vetta Nikolaos, on whether there has ever been funding for IOBE by the Latsis group, he has just been silent. But why did this question be asked by the competitor? We'll explain. Because we very simply wanted to prove that only independent is not the specific body, as it stands. And since we always speak with arguments of Golden Dawn, I will read to you how the gentlemen of IOBE define themselves and submit them to the Minutes of this House. If you enter their page, you will read: "IOBE has no fixed funding from a public or private source. Its independence underlines, among other things, the fact that it derives funding from many different sources, through donations and support for research projects. For example, the European Commission, sectoral associations and associations, chambers, financial institutions, international organisations and other private bodies. Public funding for specific projects does not exceed 9% of the annual budget." It has a table showing percentages: private sector - companies with 25%, 37%. What does that prove, gentlemen? That only independent is that all the studies go out on request. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, a very serious issue arises here. That is why I said earlier that Minister Spirji should be present. Because a lot is based on the reports of this body, IOBE, and the Greek market for which we are discussing today, I would remind you of something that no one mentioned yesterday in the committees nor the previous ones. Let me remind you that just yesterday at 11 a.m. Mr. Spirtzis was invited to the radio station “REAL FM”, and even before the hearing of the bodies, where the journalist, Mr. Hadjikolaou, had him a guest. Approximately half of his interview, with reference to television licences and the BSE estimate for the loss of income, which will be made by the reduced permits, the Minister responded - and you can see that - because he has also been posted on the Internet - that BSE has repeatedly fallen out of assessments because they were based on IOBE's studies. So, what do we have here? When the Minister of Government himself questions the studies of IOBE, tell me why we are talking about the buying of Greek. But what does this study of IOBE tell us? We've heard it from too many. It tells us that thirty thousand jobs will be created, twenty-one of which will be stable and will be in the construction sector. Which construction sector? Will there be Greek workers who will be busy? The constructions that will take the project will be of Greek interest? These work will be within twenty-five years. Tax revenues on the basis of the study are estimated at EUR 563 million per year. This is where we're working. Where does that come from? IOBE spokesman yesterday said that - and I say it exactly as he said - "of course there are always long-term projections of errors, as no one can know how the Greek economy will evolve." Here, the Greek economy is pressed! What investments are they talking about? As far as the price is concerned, the report tells us that the first instalment will be EUR 300,000 000 and that there will be three smaller equal instalments of EUR 45 000 000, which will be paid from the third to the fifth year. It also says that 400,000 euros will be paid in the sixth year and that the price will be completed in two more equal instalments of EUR 220,000,000 for the seventh and tenth years. How is this guaranteed, since, from Mr Vetta's words, there is no guarantee of the growth of the economy? Development: We have referred to jobs. These jobs are fictitious. I guess - that is why I wanted Mr Baltas to be here - investment and growth are not being made by downgrading another, existing part. Development takes place on a sector that did not exist before. Jobs will be created in the malls, which we know will be the well-known 'break-ups' four hours and people who are already unemployed by other businesses will work. Think of it - and you all know it very well in here - that, where commercial centres have been set up, the small and medium-sized enterprises have been completely destroyed. We have tangible examples in the Attica region, but also in the entire Greek territory. So it doesn't change any income. There are no foreign capital investments. There are no new jobs. Some who were employed in a business which will close when the mall is opened, will go to work in the mall in very difficult conditions, because, according to the report, we have been given a precondition that 76% of the revenue will come from shopping centres and leisure activities. In the mall, the companies that will be housed in the offices will be companies that will be relocated. They will not be companies that will now come to Greece to rent offices in this shopping centre. As you can see, even the money - the EUR 563,000 - which is said to be revenue annually, as well as the jobs, is completely figurative. In fact, they should learn that with '0+0' any act and use numerically, the result is '0'. There will be no investment from here, and 0% will be growth. They talked about growth. Do they consider developing casinos within a residential area? We have a very sad example in the city of Thessaloniki, where since the casino was created in the city, many people have been financially destroyed. You see that both already existing casinos in Attica are down. One of the reasons is that they are not easily accessible. Imagine in the center of town how many people will be destroyed, most of which are already destroyed. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the institutions. To what extent have you given Mr Christos Cortzidis, a representative of the Competition Committee? From his words, indeed, I have the impression that man is left-wing beliefs. He was the only one who referred to what I said and you should take his position very seriously. In conclusion, I will tell you that the Golden Dawn will vote against this draft law, because it is permanently our position not to divest public property and, special facilities that could play a very important role in our country's defence and not just. Whatever you have sold, we commit to the Greek people that we will regain it. The only positive to the whole draft law is the free access of Greek citizens to points of the beach, where they did not exist before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that most of the important things and most of them have been said with absolute adequacy, both by the rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis, and by Mr South Mitarakis, who has just developed our positions. I would just like to begin by pointing out that it is impressive that in such legislation the rapporteur, on behalf of the SYRIZA Government, is the Minister for Culture. The Minister of Finance was silent and the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development and the Minister of Infrastructure is absent. It is therefore a question of investing in the Greek one, mainly in the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, and of course, in the view of the government majority, the analysis of the project by the Minister of Culture made it to us! It's a cultural issue! Now, a little understandable, because two different things were brought to us here. We were first told by the rapporteur, and by the majority rapporteur, and by fellow speakers of the SYRIZA, that this is a work that is beneficial, a good work for the place. We welcomed on this basis the ideological change of SYRIZA, with several tons, but in any case we welcomed you in the area of reasonably thoughtful people. On the other hand, I was completely confused by the analysis by the Minister of Culture. He said, in addressing our rapporteur, rather than - very much - that our rapporteur does not understand and that he is using market terms - 'true', 'false', 'false', 'false', 'false' - and that policy is not being analysed as truth or a lie, but there is another way of analysing the subject, which is what serves the road towards socialism and what serves the path towards socialism is what matters. Of course, the Minister said that "In order to achieve this, strategic retreats are made, but you..." - we - 'the right-wings do not understand that". To conclude, ladies and gentlemen: is this a useful project or a strategic retreat of a radical left that has been forced to do so? You want to tell us what you're telling us here to understand Greek? What are you telling us? Tell us to understand your view at last, because you cannot do this either. You know, it's incredible what you've said about this project. It's unbelievable! I'm telling you, it's unbelievable. I mean, it's keeping your belly from laughing and I'm sorry! You have been read too often by the Prime Minister's position: "For us the Greek is not a project, it is a statement of soul." It's your soul deposit. Your soul is here. He came down and was then taken over. What's this? What are you telling us here? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is a demand for an elementary seriousness, ladies and gentlemen. We serve you, because we serve the country in the change of course, and we welcome you. I told you before. But you must also have a little seriousness and, in any case, a consistency in what you say to us, because there are two basic points of view. I told you. One is that it's a good thing, you've been late to decide, and so on. - right - and the other one, that's strategic retreat. Let's get to the perception of the right one. What are you saying here as an excuse for delay? You tell us, 'Yes, but we managed to get 1.5 billion more'. You're not telling the truth. You're not telling the truth, even in it. Can I read you a little on what he says? You have made a list of fourteen projects, which you value 1.5 billion. It's in the report. Of these, one to eight and ten to eleven are included in the business plan. I am not going to deal with the "knock" of the report which says that it is included in the draft, but not as a specific place. If you see the contractor's offer as defined in Article 32 of the report, you will see that it is well defined: Bind and bind the contractor. So, one to eight, ten and eleven were there. Do the other wicked thing, put the nine, twelve, thirteen and fourteen works. And here is the chanting, "The first by this amending convention" is added! What are nine, twelve, thirteen and fourteen? Nine is a 50% study cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u115	What study?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u116	........................................ I would refer you to page 110 of the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u117	What study?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u118	What do you mean? The cost of design and construction of a recycled waste sorting centre. That's it. I read your texts, I don't have mine. It's in the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u119	You stayed in "study". That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u120	But I'm telling you, "a study." It does not concern the implementation of the project. It's only about the study. The Twelve are concerned with the restoration, operation and promotion of the preserved buildings belonging to the contractor and therefore have every reason to do so alone. From there on, the thirteenth relates to the creation of housing areas for the AME - good - and fourteenth to the regeneration of one kilometre of the beach. You'll tell me: "Okay, for all the other things you're right, we didn't do well. We did that, didn't we?' Where's the puppy? Can I read you up? What would a contract say? He would say, 'the buyer is obliged'. That's the legal term. You know what you're writing here and you're voting for it? ‘The buyer undertakes to make every effort’. Really, ladies? Any attempt? What are you saying? Have you seen many contracts that the counterparty undertakes to make every effort?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u121	He's gonna sweat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u122	There's no seriousness, you know. The worst thing is a dishonest explanation. Come on and tell us that we had made a proper contract, you were wrong, you changed your mind, we all go and perform it. Honest and rebellious talk. All the rest is lacking object and seriousness and simply expose you. They show you, ladies and gentlemen, because a number of strange things have been heard again by the Minister. The Minister once again expressed the expression - I did not expect him to put it back to the government - on a moral advantage. Moral advantage? Did you find the days? Is it days for you to come here and talk about moral advantage? Ladies and gentlemen, I have told you from this Step too many times that in 2004 we tried to fight conflict and failed, we were defeated. It's cleaner and cleaner talk! Costas Karamanlis' government has been defeated in this area. It's not a shame. Do you want to have this fight? We should agree on parameters and conduct them. But we really need to come to an agreement. Is Mr. Kalogeris the gun against intertwining? Well, let's know. So, through Mr. Kalogritsa, we're going to change the scene of interlocutory in Greece? Does this compose the moral advantage invoked by the Minister of Culture, who recommends this legislation on the part of the Government? We need to know what you're telling us here! Is the issue of the Attica Bank an issue indifferent to you? Doesn't it matter? All the things that are happening, such as being borrowed to submit a bid and to redeem the broadcasting scenery in this way, are things that can reasonably be criticised and we are all talking about? Is the one who suggests them, does they do them and does so, is he entitled to come to Parliament and speak of a moral advantage? Finally, what's that moral? Where is he based? Which place is based to get us to meet her? Because it seems extremely convenient to me, as you are presenting it. It seems very easy and flexible in any of your wishes, in any of your moods. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no such things as you do. And the worst is that the country has been completely dissolved in any area, wherever you look. It's not just a matter of morality or immorality. It's a question of total impotence to the government. Tell us where to turn our eyes? Should we get them back to immigration? Do you remember what you told us about immigration? Can you remember them? Where are you now? You are breaking the most barbaric way the rights of sixty thousand against you - in fact they are much more - people who are on Greek territory. Do you want to see the "Le Monde" last weekend and see what it says about the supposed hot spots you have created? Would you like to take a look? Because, at least, I publicly honoured the Minister for Immigration, who had the courage to give his opinion, and asked me for an apologies. Because Calogresa has been Hilton's equivalence over the mess that exists nowadays. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The Ammondaleza! That's right. You know it, I see it! You've learned from the outside all the camps you've built! By the way, once you tell me, you open it today and extend it to Amydaleza. You want to tell me what reminds you? What can be done? Tell us, where can you go that way and this level of governance? Is there any chance that this country will be run through this crisis and this juncture? Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I want to tell you something frankly. I have told you recently that - although I did not wish it, I never wish it for any government in this country, because this is where we live, here our children are - it is clear that your capacity has ceased to exist. Your Government has been completely degraded and you are on a path of complete shrinkage and speedy departure. You have an option leaving: Do not harm the place and perhaps defend your own individual and total party dignity. However, this requires an honest position, an honest explanation and an elementary self-awareness. The way in which the rapporteur's report bears this piece of legislation to vote created a suspicion that you are on your way to doing so. The Minister's suggestion has shown us that, in the end and in you, this huge contradiction between delusion and possibly deception still exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House: The Panhellenic Police Officers' Federation, the Panhellenic Police Officers' Federation, the Panhellenic Federation of Officials of the Fire Corps, the Panhellenic Federation of Port Authority Associations, the Association of Fire Force Officers and the Panhellenic Association of Port Corps officers have tabled a protest resolution to demand their collective requests. The resolution on the time economy will be tabled in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[The above resolution, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, is presented here.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has asked for the floor, Mr Alexandros Flabouraris. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go along with the logic that the gentlemen of the Opposition, either of the Officer or of the PASOK, have followed today in particular, because their lack of arguments, their choice to vote for the investment, unfortunately pushing them to take advantage of language arguments so that they can actually stand or convince their people why they are voting for this investment. I will simply try to answer some questions which, in my opinion, have been quite convincing. One is the delay. Everybody's talking about delay. What money did we lose from the delay, etc. I just want to remind you that this project started 13 years ago. In the thirteen years, we have not even passed by the government, power and many times by the House. Instead of coming here and telling us here because in the thirteen years this work has not gone ahead, you are criticising us because, every year we have dealt with this project, we have been delayed. Ladies and gentlemen, you need to know that the master plan that has been filed, was filed as a report of ideas and with this you signed the contract in 2014. Why is that? Because there was a master plan without topography. No topography has been filed where the streams, archaeological sites, the smaller monuments, the forest areas are captured. It's just, there was a master plan which you could carry wherever you want. So go to every plot of about six thousand acres. We couldn't proceed with this master plan that was filed and had enough time to make topography. The second element you refer to in relation to this is that we have been delayed. Yeah, we're late. We have delayed this time because we have sought and I think we have achieved a great deal - I will say it later - to improve the contract that we have found. We managed to improve the description of this master plan. We managed to stabilise this master plan. This is a delay which, in our appreciation, deserved. You must also admit, by voting for this contract that we are bringing you, that there was no delay. The delay has had positive results. A third element you constantly call for - and here too, ideological issues are raised, what our options are and why we are not telling the truth, etc. - it's what we were talking about. Do you know what we've been saying for years, ladies and gentlemen? For years we have been saying that we have been against privatisation, but we are in favour of making use of public property. When we say that we are against the privatisations, we mean these privatizations that you and your partners at PASOK had imposed on Greek society, namely the sale of businesses. We did not pursue that. For these conventions, which you had signed, and we took them, and we really have to keep them, because, as we say, the state has continued, we have fought great, many times in cooperation with investors and we have won. We won to improve. If you are readers, you will have seen for years that growth on the one hand involves three forms: one is the public, the other is private investment and the third is through the social economy. So you don't find America right now. You're saying we didn't do anything. We really didn't do anything? In other words, the three hundred thousand square meters of green, which are added to the two million square meters and which will be used for social recompense so that, for example, a building can be transferred to the center of Athens to enable a park to be made in Kipseli, is not a profit? That's not what you're interested in, I have the impression, because you don't stay in the Hive. And what's not being transported remains, because it's stuck with green. Is it not a profit that about nine hundred thousand square building land has been reduced by the master plan? Is that not good? Doesn't it change the nature of the investment? Doesn't it change him for both the region and the people? Does it not have a social character one kilometer open to sea? Open means - and that is clear and unspeakable - that there will be no buildings. It may have armchairs, it may have a beach bar, but it will be open.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u125	So they'll pay there too. What's open?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u127	What's open?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u128	I'll see you together at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u129	That's what the New Democracy said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you speak seven minutes. If we're gonna have answers and we're going ten minutes, we're lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u131	So I say that all three hundred thousand acres are a crucial issue that the area of mass sport, but also the area of sport, did not expect it. Because you sent him away from St. Cosma. Your contract of St. Kosmas was kicking him out. Our negotiation leads to St. Kosmas staying until the works begin and then to be transported as it is, wholesome, above the road within six thousand acres. That's a big success. Don't underestimate it in your attempt to convince that it's all gone bad. In the 1.5 billion again you have not read it well, Mr. Dendia. The 1.5 billion investment is now investment at 4.5 billion. If you look at the propaganda texts that investors have made, you will see that they are resurrecting the size of 8 billion. One and a half are additional, and we have chosen - and we have done well, and you must admit it - from calling for an increase in the price, this money to be invested, because these investments are social benefits, they are public benefits, and these investments will really be the first to start up and give jobs, they will also open up jobs, and the people of the region will finally begin to see the positive effects of these changes, for this investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u132	Minister, you must be done. We're in double time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u133	I'm done. You referred to mayors. Do you know that the three mayors yesterday were in a meeting with the Ministry, with the EBRD, where the contract to which the use of the beaches is handed down to Varkiza to the municipalities through the logic and understanding that we will have after the study conducted for the development of the coastal front to Varkiza first and then go further with the others, so that there is a balance in the development of this area and not just the part of the Greek one? They were very happy too. I think yesterday in the conversation you had, positively, all three had expressed themselves for this project and the effort that we made. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that fair growth - because it has been mentioned - has to do with the conditions we are living in, gentlemen of the JRC. In fact, when we live in a period of one and a half million unemployed, working relationships of four-hour, two-hour, etc., when we live at a time when austerity is the one that dominates all our heads, we have chosen to help and contribute to fair growth, that is to say, a growth that will give right share, it will have an eight-hour job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u134	Will you abolish the laws?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u135	That is what we also claim on this line we call on you to enter and claim fair growth together on these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Minister. My colleague Mr Mavrosh from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking today about ratification of the Greek Convention. I think it is a step that has had to be taken a long time to stop this place being a deaf and becoming a pole of development for the region. It is an investment project with clear development objectives, with a positive contribution to the fiscal adjustment of the Greek economy. I fear that if it were not one of the prerequisites for evaluation, the government would find a way to continue the'standard' in the privatizations, as has been used to us. Let's see what happened with the PPA, with the contract that came and was different from the one signed, let's see what happened with the fourteen airports that were finally signed with pain and tears. Even the proclamation of the airport in an archaeological site (even the runways) created strange combinations for those who know the terminology of Greek bureaucracy. Fortunately for the region, however, the original sale finally became a rest to start the investment. After 15 years, then, we see the Greek case finally falling apart. At this point, in order to be fair and not only to criticise SYRIZA, the participants in the previous governments must also do their self-criticism, PASOK and New Democracy, without fear and without passion, because so many years have not happened. So the Memorandum had to dictate it to us to do so. Sustainable development that we are doing so much, has three criteria, three pillars on which it should be supported, the economy, the environment and society. We need, in other words, development with social cohesion and respect for the environment. The gravity factor we make in each criterion also defines the policy mix that we follow. The compromise between the three criteria is the secret of successful societies. This should therefore also be done in the Greek for this investment. Economic activities must marry in harmony with the environment and give society space and activities that can be enjoyed by them and of course by them. The investment in Greek will therefore be a "pilot" to exploit the state property on these criteria. Development with social cohesion is the main issue. Allow me to mention this because of the particular sensitivity of sport and especially of sports facilities, because a large part of my life has passed it in the swimming pools of Agios Kosmas. The name "Agios Kosmas" is embodied in the consciousness of the people of the lecadium with sport and especially with mass sport. So, in the part of the social component we spoke about earlier on about sustainable development, it must be maintained and - why not? - to strengthen the sporting character of this site. The investment project provides provision for leisure and sport activities in the range of five hundred and sixty million euros, 7.7% of the investment. Sport infrastructure needs renewal. A metropolitan park, in which we aspire to transform the Greek, must definitely provide spaces and facilities for sports activities. I've seen it happen in many cities in the world. Unfortunately, we let our Olympic heritage be devalued. So let us seize the opportunity now to correct some of the mistakes of the past and to create space for sports activities from which children, citizens, clubs, clubs and even national groups can benefit, without, of course, forgetting the possibilities of sporting tourism, because such facilities can be an attraction for athletes around the world. The Paralympic Games in Rio were over yesterday and a month ago the Olympics. In fact, we welcomed the Olympics in the House. In these two events, the athletes made us proud, made us celebrate, moved, weep. They are standards for children, to which we should offer sporting spaces. But also in the teams, in our national teams, which if we see in which areas were preparing for the Olympic Games, we should be ashamed. Sport has earned the appreciation of society, stood up in the crisis and the big bet on our society, for every society - I think - is to increase the sport it does in relation to the one it consumes from the couch. That is why I insist on the issue of sports facilities in the new Greek project, which will enrich it and upgrade it, following examples from abroad. Another thing I am pleased to see in this bill is that there are at last no amendments. We will, of course, be a standby until the vote, until the end, we will be vigilant not to bring any amendments or any legislative improvements by Mr Philis, as he has been accustomed to lately, doing higher - below the universities. Let me close with the one year anniversary from the second SYRIZA - ANEL. The government's aim is to make a turn to realism, to demise arrogance and listen once and for all to counterpopulation. We are a country that needs investment, such as the Greek one, which I repeat is an examination of how our country treats the big projects. We should not, therefore, treat them through the distorting lens of ideas. Private investment is not the tiger that will tear us apart, but if we handle it properly, it may be the horse that will pull the cart out of the gutter of crisis. It is the investment projects that create many jobs. Let us not forget that unemployment is and remains our number one problem. With such potential for growth we can do something about it. A year, then, from the second time on the left was certainly a year that we did not hit. It was a year, however, when instead of unwinding, we sinked more to the uncertainty. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government unfortunately produces even more despair than we can consume. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, despite his election positions for the past twenty months, is now selling the Greek company "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT". The Latsis investment group that has undertaken the project has launched an extensive propaganda campaign in order to convince the people of the area of the Greek and more general Attica to accept and embrace the project. It has in this regard scandalous support from government officials and from all the range of urban political forces who do not hide their identity with the Syrian version of this left-hand rug. After all, this was done for all these two years of governance with all the crucial issues, namely the left government of SYRIZA, and the bills they brought, starting mainly from the third memorandum, to increase, of course, the profits of capital, groups that break the flesh of Greece into good cooperation with Euro-Union partners - the well-known - and other institutions of capitalism. That is why the confrontation between all these political forces is also heartfelt. It focuses mainly on corruption, inefficiency of management, more recently with the example of television licences, where the government is allegedly extinguishing the television scene, questionable replacement of some canals by others who consider them to be also other subordinates and other new state pasture contractors, etc. - what we are hearing - at the same time as the information is still in the hands of the large capital, and there it will of course remain. At the same time, it continues to support the deadlock and no substance of the final agreement between the European Union and Turkey on the refugee issue which literally blocked thousands of refugees in our country, creating enormous problems for the refugees themselves, but also for the peoples of our country as well as for the Greek, the rest of Attica, Macedonia, our islands, etc. At the same time, the new anti-grassroots package in this House - from what we have learned - this evening, to go as a matter of urgency to slaughter people's rights, to complete the first assessment, which includes over-privateisation, abolition of discounts on health contributions, for farmers, for self-employed professionals and for others, and, at the same time, to prepare themselves - for the people to prepare - the new anti-grassroots measures, the hardest prerequisites for the most important second assessment. Of course, this concerns employment rights, as we all know, in the new trade union law, in fact in the repression of further workers' trade union rights for their own organization of their struggle, their struggle at the workplace, etc. This is all the mockery of your "fair" development. All that package. So all the dirty work of the system in full progress and implementation by SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. How can the various "hawks" and the European Union and the United States and the International Monetary Fund, which today support you with fingernails and teeth, not to do their job and then, of course, to throw you out like smuggled lemon worms, too? Ladies and gentlemen, and the developments that are being promoted in Greek are not random nor, in our view, is the result of an idealism of one or another government. In no case can anyone see it extracted from the overall development strategy that is being promoted for the whole of Attica and the country, of course. The development of the Greek and coastal zone as a whole forms part of the general planning - and he serves - of the groups that express intra-imperialist opposition to the various axes and priorities to be set. The promotion of this design is tantamount to escalating the attack on popular rights. The example of the privatisation of the Greek, as envisaged by the government plan, is revealing. Tourist facilities, multi-star hotels, the various high-cost entertainment activities, such as this tourism, effectively exclude access for the people, the popular families of Attica from them, and significantly exacerbate their access to the seafront, regardless of the form of this exclusion, i.e. either because of the ticket for entry into a closed area or if the prices of the services provided to them are forbidden by the people's family. At the same time, the implementation of these projects builds up the minimum remaining open spaces, and there is no provision for promoting measures to address pressing immediate needs of the people. High level tourism means that the beaches, the various areas, etc. They will only be exploited by the groups for their profitability, aiming mainly at tourists, ultimately excluding residents. In general, these activities also involve a burden on the region, an increase in costs for the people, an environmental burden on residents. Ladies and gentlemen, we remind you that, in an election, SYRIZA was placed negatively, in a strong and very strong way, against the Greek agreement. I remind you that in February 2014 Mr. Tsipras said that "Greek is part of our collective struggle consciousness. It is the mark of the struggles of city movements to defend the public space." Mr. Tsipras then restored the design of the National Technical University for the Greek, pointing out that it is a proposal that is documented, costly, that prevents the destruction of a blessed place of the Attic landscape, while at such tones the rhetoric of all SYRIZA executives was generally moving. The current government ministers themselves spoke about the value of the Greek who approached the 3 billion euros, describing as a "exploitation" the agreement signed by the GOI. What did he do about this huge fucking thing, too? Did the quartet convince you of the sale of this blessed Park after all? Did Latsis' multimillionaire and his partners convince you that he will honor the location of the popular games to defend the public space? Have you been convinced by the various young contractors, with whom in recent years - and not just - are you concerned? All these issues will be answered at some point and the truth will shine. But the main thing is the point. The substance lies in your own policy, your line, which starts after 1991 - so old - from the opportunistic solution that you proposed and you developed it gradually until you became a Civic Anti-Civilisation at that time, I am elephant of PASOK. You never questioned this path of capitalist development. On the contrary, you promoted him with lights and lamps, occasionally simply giving priority to some of the other parts of the chapter. In other words, you were in line at that time, about your former Minister - who is now in LAPD - Mr Lafazani and the others. You have been preparing your definitive and final ass, after you had cultivated it for the past twenty years. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the committee and today the party MPs have developed the specific criticism we are making against the government positions and about the Greek one. The Greek people, particularly the inhabitants of Attica, of the wider region of the Greek region, should have clear that all this is the case at the end of the day precisely because the other political parties - zero-free - support and follow the same path that has proved to be numerously failed, outdated, not mainly because of some individual administrative errors. It's not a one-way road, we say, this road. There are two development paths. The path of capitalist development legally has as a criterion only the profitability of big capital and not the real satisfaction of popular needs. In contrast, the development path of the people's economy has as a criterion the fulfilment of combined people's needs. The question of taking advantage of the Greek is not a controversy involving a large plot and what will happen with this. It concerns the entire Lefkanopod and is part of the multiple attempted reforms throughout Attica, on its coastal front. It's inextricably tied to the changes in the Falitic Cove. At the same time, the controversy is not limited to whether or not the Greek will be built for two reasons. On the one hand, because, as we have said, it is part of overall reforms throughout Attica, which involve other regions and other sectors. On the other hand, because the use of the land available must be geared to the combined needs of the people, not only to the extent that there will be a green area. Our position on the Greek is objectively in our position for all of Attica and the fulfilment of the social needs as a whole, ensuring the right to safe, quality, high-quality people's housing, ensuring the right to transport, public utility infrastructure, such as schools, hospitals, civil protection structures, measures and anti-military armourage and earthquake protection, green and recreational areas. It passes through the need to ensure quality time for workers. So she's tied up with working conditions and all that. For the Greek area, the design should take into account the best way of making use of the space, the way to find resources for the construction and maintenance of the site, the type of activities to be developed. Today, spatial planning cannot satisfy these expanded people's needs. The real problem is not whether there will be formally drafted design, but who decides, with which criteria and to whose benefit for the time, space, the priorities for placement at both national and local level for the Greek. Spatial, urban and urban planning is generally not an autonomous policy, a field of scientific confrontation, but is a tool mainly of policy. Anyone who claims and claims that any urban and other interventions are socially neutral technological processes, which, together with better management for supposedly direct philosophical results, will solve the acute problems at regional or even local level, is responsible for cultivating delusional, disorientates from the main issue that is planning by whom and for whom, ultimately, is determined by the answer to the question 'developing for whom'? In both Attica and the whole country. On the opposite side of this development, the scientific central design we, the people's economy, are the only one that can provide a polite solution to Attica's spatial planning and the utilization of the Greek economy. Only in this context is it possible to record the people's needs and predict future needs throughout the Attica region on the basis of all the criteria that we have already mentioned. On this basis, a detailed calculation can be made of the necessary technical projects, green areas, people's homes, means of transport, etc. Only the socialisation of the land - to say our overall proposal as a whole - can allow the necessary distribution of activities throughout the country and in Attica and, of course, the implementation of combined best interventions to meet social needs. The implementation of the technical projects and their maintenance will be carried out by the single state body of construction. Only under these conditions can the maintenance and construction of the necessary projects be done by ensuring the savings of resources, safe projects, minimising the necessary conservation resources, free use of facilities, activities, etc. Only such truly popular labour governance guarantees the right to stable and full-time work for all, with plenty of free quality time, so it also guarantees the real material conditions for the exploitation of parks, activities and all of them. In this context, the creation of a metropolitan park at the former airport of Greece is a realistic and timely need and covers a gap arising from the dramatic lack of green spaces, free spaces in the Attica basin. The JRC has proposed a comprehensive radical wrestling framework, with specific axes. The situation in the wider part of the Greek region is now being offered to take courageous steps to organise the struggle for workers and the people of the region - this is, of course, not about Parliament, it is not about you, ladies and gentlemen. It is about the viewers, the Greek people, who are listening to us at the moment - in the direction of a more general response to the attack and by immediately exploiting the struggle against the promotion of this capitalist investment, for its final and final cancellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. The government is now coming to ratify the contract for the investment of the Greek under the suffocating pressure of lenders and in order to implement the prerequisites of the Agreement. This is a contract of our own government, which SYRIZA as Opposition fought rabies. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and ANEL - although there is no one in the House at this time - we all remember your attitude at that time when you called the world up and committed that you would not allow the sale. Mr Tsipras himself said at the time that "Greek is not sold" and described the investment as "divestment of public property in terms of robbers for the public interest". Of course, the same man is now preparing to go to Greek to cut ribbons. Recently your colleague, Mr. Kyritsis, said about the Greek that "it is an investment that if it were up to us we would not do it". It is obvious that a portion of your party remains committed to undermining and canceling any investment. Putting as a window supposedly the public interest, you are trying to serve an ideology that refers to misery and stagnation. Until the last hour, you attempted to drugize the implementation of privatisation by creating stumbling blocks, such as the provision of the Ministry of Culture, which you finally withdrawn, to declare part of the area as an archaeological site, but also with your intention to convert the area of the former airport to a hosting centre. Your earlier political and governmental life raises questions about your credibility and consistency and obliges us to keep a small basket, because your attitude to the issue of the Greek is part of your overall theory of investment. Because you have been short on blowing up the "COSCO" in the air with the cams of Mr. Dritsa and you tried to block that Afantos in Rhodes. How do you think the international investment environment is taking it? As a strong government's will to encourage and welcome investments or as beans fighting any investment effort? Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, you have blocked this investment by invoking the public interest and you claim that you have renegotiated the agreement. Firstly, only the words 'negotiation' and 'SYRIZA' together cause terror. And what did you do with the new deal? To complete the work three years earlier? So you've been fighting it so long, and you've humiliated it because you wanted it to be completed faster!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u142	That's right, that's a good argument!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u143	And how do you mean the public interest when the vast majority of the public was in favour of the project? Really, Mr. Flambury, did you ask the people on whose behalf you were negotiating? Mr. Flambury's gone. Has the government ever seen, Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur, the municipalities of the wider region, Argyroupoli, Greek, Alimos, Glyfada? For example, in the Municipality of Argyroupoli - Greek comes about 90% of the area. Has the government heard their problems? Has it taken into account before the signature of the MOU with the investor the issues affecting their administrative function? Local government, which fully supports investment, has made some claims concerning the structures and operation of the neighbouring municipalities, the transport and regeneration works. The government of course faces these superficially, as usual. We would like you to take them to the Minister, and we also expect an answer. The new residents, for example, and the business that will be created in the area of the former airport, how will they be allocated administratively? Will they be allocated to the municipalities in accordance with the official maps of the "KIMOLOGY S.A." or is there any other design by the Ministry? There are also small but fair requests from local bodies that must not, of course, be ignored. For some, such as the new facilities for the MEDI 'ANEMONI' association, there is rightly a clear provision. What, for example, is going to happen with the Pontés association which we cannot displace once again, but also with the small community of fishermen who make partitions in the region? Fifty people are them. I'm talking about you cutting yourself off for the poor and helpless. These are issues that are a small spot in front of the huge work that will take place, but which have a special value for the local society. Of course, we will closely monitor their evolution for as long as you are a government. The positive effect of the Greek investment does not need to be developed extensively. The recent report by IOBE describes the impetus it will give the Greek economy, the benefits that will be gained at the budgetary level, and the stimulation it will offer to employment, without, of course, the environmental and, more generally, the upgrading of the region after housing renewal. After all, there is an example of the Florisvos marina, a much smaller and wide-ranging project, which brought growth in the region. It is a reference point for the southern suburbs and not just for the southern suburbs. Thousands of citizens enjoy its free and fully accessible spaces. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the investment of the Greek Government shows us the way our country must go to recover, the way of a clear investment strategy, rather than the ones that can hardly be carried out, in rather than one, when the noose enters the neck. It requires private initiative-friendly policies rather than declaring devastated when we are forced to vote for democracies. It has been proved that on the ground of recovery you cannot under any circumstances be drivers, because you do not believe in investment and business, unless it concerns entrepreneurs who are giggled through sea loans and who have the necessary lending pastures to owe them canalarchs. You cannot serve the policy that can lead to recovery, growth and breathe into a suffocating society. That is why the Greek investment will not only benefit the public funds, employment, the local economy. It offers our society another advantage. With its ratification and much more with its completion, the ideology of delaying and regression is crumbling and accepting a overwhelming defeat both your ideology and your populism. Because everything here is paid, as you can see. And populism and easy promises. The political account will be paid very soon. The "I don't pay" movement here doesn't exist. But the other one, we'll all pay him. And he rises every day when he spends with SYRIZA in power. It's not just inability and idealism. It's the remouilles too. Yeah, the remnants of you white and undefiled. Let's see where the new story with the Attica Bank goes. Mr. Spirtzis, I'm very afraid this time he'll really cry. And if this doesn't happen with the Attica Bank, he'll cry with the highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Mrs Theodora, has the floor from the Centro Association. Now that my colleague is starting, I would ask that the dialogue between you, ladies and gentlemen, be stopped. You can start, Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to inform the House that yesterday in committee every representative of the bodies, especially the mayors, was given only three minutes to the committee to participate in a dialogue on investment and to inform us of such important work. Perhaps it is the largest investment of the last fifty years that will affect the lives of millions of our fellow people. Among the actors were the mayors of the region who brought issues that were important and we should know them sometime ago. But what did we do? We have learned at the last minute and just before we proceeded to the biggest post-war investment in the urgent procedure, so that we do not even have time to read. I would like to point out that the mayors mainly of Argyroupoli - Greek and two neighbouring municipalities of Alimos and Glyfada were in favour of the investment, but they also raised a number of issues that I personally have been troubled with. At this stage we have an obligation as a state to protect, on the one hand, the public interest and, on the other, the inhabitants of the region. As far as the public interest is concerned, first of all we need to see the issue of the various public charges. There is one bad example, as you know, Ministers, that of "Eleftherios Venizelos Airport", where in the publications we read that there are serious obstacles to the collection of fees. In fact, beforehand, we should be particularly serious about the receipt of financial compensation and maximise the profit for the public sector. Furthermore, we should check whether investment serves the public interest not only from the economic side, but also from the social point of view. For example, the green that will be created should give added value to the whole of Attica and not just to the narrow limits of the investment. The area is a unique large urban green lung and should not be abandoned in the investor's plans, but should have a say both in public and in local government. We should also be sure and ensure that all spaces are accessible, visitable to people with disabilities, not only internally, but also to all external structures. In other words, the question is that all the sites are really free and not just the monitoring of the businesses and the stores that will be created. Anyone who wants to be able to enjoy the park and the beach, without necessarily spending money. Of course, the convention provides for that. But we must make sure that in future the very things that have been signed will be implemented. As far as the inhabitants and businesses of the region are concerned, we should first be dealing with the fact that we have some serious problems before much-needed development. On the one hand, new jobs will come and, on the other, jobs will be lost from shops in nearby areas that may have a problem and will be closed down. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what should we do? Don't make the investment? No, I'm answering. Of course this investment must be made. So long a permanent and stable demand from the Central Association is to make moves to make major and effective investments in our country and not just to stay in the announcements. But at the same time we must also take care of these risks for the small and large businesses of the Greek, Argyroupoli, Glyfada, Alimos. Perhaps, in these small businesses in danger of being closed up, various incentives, tax, insurance and so on should be given. At least, however, we must start the debate with these people and with these people, because unfortunately there is a bad precedent. You should know that where malls were created, local markets were faced with a big problem and perhaps destroyed. So I strike the alarm of the collapse of the surrounding markets. Furthermore, too many visitors and tourists are expected in Greek. The state must take the initiative immediately to launch the plan to facilitate these visitors. I ask you this: is there a plan for easy access of tourists from the airport of Spata, the port of Piraeus, the center of Athens? Is there a plan for accessing public transport? We must do this as a state, because that is our role. To sum up and to conclude, I would like to say that the position of the Centro Association is, of course, in favour of investment and the creation of new jobs. At the same time, I would like to point out to the government that the work of the state is not over with ratification, but now it is beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Theocharis Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the International Airport of Greece ceased its operation in 2001. Fifteen years later, SYRIZA implements his neoliberal policy. Today every trace of dignity is lost. Now the real face of SYRIZA is revealed. First, you're a liar. You're cutting off the ESS and you're saying you didn't cut off the main pensions. Shame on you! I don't know how you look at retired people's eyes. Shame on you! Second, you're stuck in the chair. Today you're selling out your ideas. Everything you've taken out of your mouth, every slogan of every duke, you're selling it for your authority and parliamentary seat. Of course, you're also slaping from the top. Where's Mr Balta's additions? Yesterday there were ancient times and today they're gone? Where is he? Third, you're corrupted. We are watching insurmountable SYRIZA's "Bavefield", your contractors, your banks, your media. I would like to remind you of the following: the late guarantee why did you accept it? Transactions without documentary evidence why did you accept them? The tax-raisers who have the employees unpaid, why did you accept them? Pilgrims for guarantees, why did you accept them? Red loans to the pastures, why did you accept them? Attica Bank over-expected your chosen man. Why did you force them to do it? At what interest rates did he do it? With what guarantees? As long as the Attica Bank lost money, you put the E.R.D., TALPITAT and the airport to recapitalize it. Why did you do it? I first denounced it here at this Step on 11 February and accepted Mr. Philly's attacks. Now SSM's checking that recapitalisation if it's done right. We expect a second conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, which may require new money for the Attica Bank. Who's gonna put it? I'd go on forever. It's not worth it anymore. You're stuck in the chair and you're going to continue the disaster until you're no more useful. Then everyone who supports you will put you aside. You will be lost, but your bill will remain, to be paid for by the Greek people. And the investment jobs, the upgrading of the area, all the positive things that will be done, will be done, because they put your gun on the front, not because you wanted them. We have to look forward. Let us answer some questions that are about the future. That's worth it. Did the privatisation have to be completed? Yeah, because we'd pay upstairs if we stopped her. Do the next ones also have to be completed? Yeah, for the same reasons. Watch out for the DESA, move in dangerous waters, and there will be problems if this investment is lost. Is there any other privatization? No, we say 'Democratic Responsibility'. We can follow the example of Singapore, Austria, Sweden and so many other countries: ownership of the people, management to private individuals, proper management with private criteria and dividends to the Greek people. We ask for 5% dividends per year, and so we will be able to support the social state and reduce taxes, the social state that has become a custodian, such as the Church. We hear nothing but “weak, weak, weak.” The middle-class children are the newlyweds of the future. SYRIZA builds the young people of the future, because the middle class may not be hungry, but he no longer has money to support the education of her children, the care centres and everything else. The taxes that strangle jobs must reduce them. Can we avoid privatisation? Not with your policy. Yes, if you leave. Let's explain it for everyone to understand. For unemployment to fall, we want investment of 100 billion over the next five years. Investments need money. There are other conditions, but without money there is no investment. Three and all are the sources for the money: First, testimonials. Nobody trusts you to put their money in the banks. It will not do so until the'red' loans are resolved. Secondly, the red loans. This is where you go, without a plan, ballots of foreign dispositions. And here there's no light. Thirdly, foreign direct investment. Since nothing is sold privately, you will continue to sell public property or bring even worse damage, misery and unemployment. Red loans, therefore, and their plan is essential to stop this kind of sale, as you say. How would a proper social law plan for red loans be? Firstly, we are building a bad bank that will take all the business loans from the banks - not housing, business - to free them from the burden they bear. Secondly, we divide businesses into sustainable and non-viable. We salvage them on a sustainable basis with every facility. Attention, not the shareholders, but the company, the employees of the suppliers. Not as you let Marinopoulos do what he wants, and now you come, you run and you don't have time to back up. Clear them unsustainable, take everything we can for debts and erase them. To give the people who tried and failed in the crisis a second chance. Where will the money be found for this bad bank? The Greeks' money abroad. We shouldn't bring them for other purposes. Bring them by special law to buy bonds that will help restructure the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no ideas and you cannot get the country out of the crisis, because, as I say to you a year and a half now, you are a follower of the previous ones. Same and more incapacity. Same and more sale. Same and more corruption. Same and more lies. That's why you're going to leave in the same and the same way and you're not coming back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor, Mr Tsironi. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we often play with words. We are accused of taking advantage of the Greek and of the fact that before we resisted the use of the Greek. I would like to remind you that we are always struggling for the exploitation of the Greek. What we were fighting against was a particular contract. Another thing about the contract, which you considered panacea to solve the problems of the country, and another thing about the utilization of the Greek. These two have to be separated. First of all, we have to start by congratulating the Polytechnic team who managed and took this convention, which was a leontia and had huge problems. He really did at a minimum of time and under conditions that the investor knew we were committed to signing from the summer agreement - so he knew that we would finally sign and could not negotiate like you - and the contract was improved. And I think it's cowardly - cowardly, whether they say it from here or there, no one has said, from the most eminent anti-private movement to any other of the headquarters of Officerial Opposition, that the contract has not improved. What we are just discussing is whether it has improved a little or not. I'm not gonna sit down and say if that's more or less. What I'm just going to say is that if the beach had no sure access to the public, now at least a thousand metres there is access to the public. The green also rises. High green is increasing over 100%, while what we call 'park', 'built space' and not 'parking' is increasing over 70%. So whether or not we negotiated is proven by the facts. We did negotiate. This is a fact and no one disputes it. From there on, the problem is not whether we have managed to improve it or not, because that is something that everyone admits. The problem is whether the contract as such we received was a good or bad contract. And I think the answer is simple and the market itself will give it, which many of you invoke. The contract was disastrous. And anguish for the future is not whether we have achieved a lot or a little, but whether those articles that are likely to cause problems in the future are those that came from our own negotiation or from what we have received. The euphoria that the contract is signed does not cover the citizens' questions. For example, I would like to remind you that in this House there was a great deal of euphoria for Olympiad. The Olympiad was a national target. Olympiada was an environmental, mainly economic, but also political crime. It was the Olympiad of Interface. And I don't think he was any spectacular SYRIZA at the time that was blocking the big projects. In fact, there were special fast track laws to quickly finish the works. Go for a walk to see what happened. Go see how many thousands of places you've been feeding at last! Go see the abandonment and the misery that exists right now! Go see what's happening right now in Olympic works. Go see how many of them are being exploited and how much they amortized their money, even on social criteria, even by the fact that people are getting inside and being sported. How much the costs paid by the Greek people, who were commonly professedly two and three times loaded up because of the urgency, were ambiguous. And since we are talking about the pluralism of the channels, we will finally have to remind our Greeks. Well, pluralism isn't about having a lot or a few channels. It is a pluralist argument to hear all the views. And to remind you that in Olympiads, there was no idea that we were going for a disaster. People didn't know then that we were going for a disaster. Here, then, we are proud to have saved what we could save. And indeed, the contract is extremely much better than it was before, but I cannot really point out - and I would point out that Ms. Big Economics rightly pointed it out - that the critical answers have not yet been given. Does it, for example, fit spatially two and a half million squares? If we analyze them in housing, we're talking about some ninety thousand people in the area? Do the streets of the area fit into the master plan, the original, which was not actually there, and they all admitted it here? Where are these people going to go to school? Where are they going to focus? Where are they gonna have fun? How will it be circulated from the two road networks? The subway of the area and the tram can withstand these problems? You're talking about ideas. Have you really measured, in terms of net market, how many jobs have you lost from malls? How many were lost cumulatively, the ones that won less than the ones we lost from the malls? Are they foolish, are the Swiss spectacular left when they don't put mall in their residential tissues? And they cannot talk about the suspicion of investors who dropped the country's GDP by 25% down. We lost 1/4 of our GDP and investors were leaving now. I don't think the investors have left for days SYRIZA. If they are gone, we are seeing it in GDP - businesses that have been closed down in our day. The vast majority of enterprises are closed on your own days. So we cannot talk about the suspicion of investors. Yeah, if I was an investor, I'd be suspicious about the Greek. So, and I want to close, there's really still concern. No matter how much improvements we've achieved, we haven't saved the lot yet. But here I would like to answer - because I have been asked by competitors and competitors down in the Greek, because I happen to have locality, whether I am going to vote or not - that the answer to this question is very clear: If I really felt the security of the opposition that I was going home last summer and waiting from there, through the movements, to improve the conditions in the Greek, if we had not signed this commitment that we are signing today and had gone to our home, such as other partners, who have more of their agonists than their home service, I think history showed it what would have happened. The answer would be simple. The contract would have been signed on its own merits. The one New Democracy had originally brought. So that we are useful in this post I think we have proved it. From that point on, the movements should also do their duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Today there is another last betrayal against the property of the many people from the Greek people. And the fact that SYRIZA, along with the Independent Greeks, turned a hundred and eighty degrees of self-determination, does not justify the coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK, as the gentlemen of the New Democracy say. On the contrary, it undoes the current confrontation and fully vindicates the Golden Dawn, which remains stable and vindicated, which says that everyone is the same and has the same boss. For the Greek people to understand the timeless betrayal of the post-government governments, let us look a little back in the 1990s, to remind you that the sale was done and made on the basis of an organized plan and plan. For the "Eleftherios Venizelos" contract, the first signatures fell in 1993 on Mitsotakis and the second and final ones in 1996 on Simitis. It was a contract, which was made in English law, where, among other things, this 'invigorated' contract for the Greek State said there should be no other airport within a hundred kilometres of a capital of highly tourist. Of course, Hochtief, the company that managed the airport until last year, never paid the VAT received from all passengers - more than EUR 400 million - and put it in the pocket and everything well. It has also never paid municipal fees to the municipalities to which the airport is subject, to the detriment of the citizens of these municipalities. We are talking about the absolute monopoly of the so-called 'liberal economy'. Such a monopoly does not exist in North Korea. In the end, too, the absolute reward for 'Hochtief'. After doing all this, we see everywhere in all the new road projects as the "Hochtief" this company that together with Bobola and others build the streets, the roads of our country. Remind what happened in the Trade Committee of April 8, 2014, where TIADED had come to present to us the plan at the time of the Greek exploitation. It comes out with a brochure on the use, as it says, of the Greek, entirely misleading and I will submit it in the Minutes. On the first page he had a colored partial photo showing all Attiki gray and white even the Shift, green as it will be along with the Greek green of course and Golf, which no one understands the difference if it is inside or outside. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To whom do you give, or rather give, sell, as you were saying, SYRIZA gentlemen, according to your terminology, the former Greek airport? In the Latsis Group, which you have once again rewarded for what has done well in our homeland over the past few decades. Remind the far-reaching accident of "Petrola" in 1992 with fifteen dead and ten burned, literally cooked, living, the far-reaching accident, again the property of Latsis in "Greek Petroleum" last year with four dead and tens again with burns throughout the body. In fact, the "Greek Petroleum" as magical while "Petrola" was not allowed to extend its facilities and after some time, Mr. Latsis was found to be the owner of the "Greek Petroleum". You give the Greek to Mr. Latsis of Eurobank, the bank that went bankrupt many times. Tens of billions of euros flew into the air and remains unpunished. It was recapitalised by the Greek citizens, who borrowed through the memoranda tens of billions of euros to relocate. At the moment the bank's value is low, and yet you reward them and with a position on the board of the National Bank. It is Mr. Latsis who has been given permission by some to build the world's largest 'broken', the mall in Maroussi, and various governments have been found trying to erase this - if nothing else - a great fine that should be paid if not to tear it down. And finally, with a number of "introductions" you acquitted him. And now one of what we've learned, Mr. Cironi, in which you're going to make them completely oil, and it's gonna be very clear to mall and it's all good and it's all good and nothing is going to happen at all. It is Mr. Latsis who has also taken the “Golden Hall”, the former Olympic Press Center, which was paid for by the Greek people and took it again for ninety years at a corresponding ridiculous price and in instalments. Let's know what's going on. In this committee I told you it was when it could not start for hours because SYRIZA, SYRIZA, was beating on the tables, Mrs Durou, Mr Lafazanis and others, and not to say what they said at the time with their colleagues in the government, the ANELs. We are tabling dozens of statements in the Minutes here and what else they have said is to prove how far-reaching they are and how much 'cocks' they are. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let us accept, as various people now say, the majority of the House - two hundred seventy votes will take on the assignment of the Greek - that it must be sold for the sake of the patronage - ironically - in order to repay part of all that the post-government governments have shown here. The price? EUR ninety-five million for ninety-nine years in instalments, i.e. about EUR 150 per square metre. If anyone enters the internet, the "Golden Opportunity", the "Spain" will see the prices on the market, what the plots are playing there. Because if you wanted money, you could give a very small portion of the Greek to get that price of 915 million euros. We read that in Surmenas, a very degraded area in relation to the Greek fillet is 642 euros the square meter, but if we go to the Greek areas at the airport, their value is 1,772 euros the square meter the plots. So by giving it to EUR 150 the square and repayment in ninety years, we are probably talking about a gift, not even a sale. I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This contract stinks and lives from everywhere. I'm going to go down. The New Democracy rapporteur's argument that he was nine interested and was not one - as we have said - is completely wrong. It was something that the Syrians and all others, other than the PASOK-New Democracy, accepted at that time. I will also give some of the practical information showing the alchemys that were made to fly outside the various interested parties, because if there were a competition, as was done for television stations, closed somewhere, with specific rules, we are sure that the interested parties would pay a much higher price than the EUR 915 000, and even much faster and under the conditions that the Greek public would like, hypothetically. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In a 2013 valuation, which is signed by the CEO of "ELLENIKI S.A.", Professor Spyros Pollis, the minimum fair value of the rights of the company "ELLENIKI S.A." in real estate amounts to EUR 1,239 billion - this is a 2013 valuation - while the Technical Chamber of Greece, Mr. Spirtzi, then, had made an estimate that the Greek is costing around EUR 2,5 billion. With regard to this agreement, candidate investors did not receive a real investment file - these are from the objections of the rest - but a summary and record of intentions, while at the same time there were constantly legislative and judicial arrangements that were 'depressed' - within many introductorys - various potential investors. They also did not know the exact extent to be used or the court cases, such as the case of one of the candidate investors, the London Regional Properties, which requested an extension of the tender due to the fact that the conditions of the tender had been changed and were not given by the GOI and had to leave, as was a case of a catastrophic fund in which they put sixty questions in relation to the tender and received an answer for the forty and the most serious, twenty of which had to do with the participation of the State by 30% in the revenues of the investment. This basic blurred term gradually discouraged all eight investors. And when everyone left and left only the "Lamda Development", then the TIAD was clear about what will happen. I'm telling you this so we can know what's going on. In this contract, the benefit to the Greek State, as you say, does not calculate the cost of relocation of many services located there. Really, who pays for the transfer of PPE, OSCE, Saint Cosmas Sports Center, the Civil Aviation Service that may not be made on the first day, but later become too many other services? Answer? The Greek public. Only for the Submarine Mission Unit has the HICP committed itself to paying for the relocation - here, of course, there are some generalities - because of the many questions of the Golden Dawn and the previous and previous parliamentary term on this issue. Really, what about airport infrastructure? Nothing at all. Hundreds, hundreds of millions of euros, Mr. Latsi. With the Olympic properties that the Greek people paid for, what happens? Nothing. A gift to Mr. Latsi. Really, the General Accounting Office of the State, which says that the contract will have financial consequences for the Greek State, do you not take this into account? The contract is excessively unequal to the Greek State. For the Court of Auditors, word. The project team's report at the beginning of 2015 - if I am not mistaken - says: "The Greek State and the TIAD are disproportionately burdened with and are making excessive commitments and commitments to the buyer, so that there is a serious risk that the investment in the future will be excessively burdened with them. The contract ensures only rights and facilities for the ‘Lamda Development’ and only obligations for the Greek State. Only their own, in short. For example, ‘If the contract is terminated with Lamda’, the HICP will have to repay the money it has received and no other compensation is provided for the public. Pine deforestation is foreseen and the archaeological finds are expected to be built in buildings. The State is required to pay the ‘Lamda Development’ compensation if it fails to achieve the objective of its annual revenues. We are talking about another colonial contract at the expense of the Greek public. We're going to this famous IOBE where they gave us a flash show of eighty-seven pages where it says things. You know that IOBE is what he said in 2011 that Greece will come out on the markets. And we read about IOBE some things. Mr Shahinides also said so in committee. It is a private, non-profit foundation, a research organisation, financed by financial institutions, like Eurobank by Mr Latsis, and other private bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to use the dentistry, Mr President. When we asked the representative of IOBE a straight question yesterday, he didn't answer us at all if he had ever been, indirectly or directly, funded by the Latsis Group so that he could take on an orderly basis studies and take everything perfectly and pomegranately. We also put this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All that's about lies, lies, and just lies. He said Mr Baltas before you were going to honour your signature. Rather a card honours your signature, just to the creditors and not to the Greek people who voted for you and by referendum he had given you the green light to do what you were saying, but eventually you do exactly the opposite. We heard about the Athenian Riviera. What are you going to do with Athenian Riviera when the Greek population declines - all the studies show that in a few years and a half we will be fewer - when unemployment is constantly growing and when there are no new jobs? And about this very nice package that Lamda Development gave us, which says about mall and stuff, doesn't tell us what they're gonna have. Are they going to sell imported products again in malls? So, we're still borrowing to import and sell? Athens is already full of malls and not all work. A lot of plants are growing up. Not to talk about the simple, small businessmen who close after each other. Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos of the Independent Greeks said that what we say we do. Well, that was the joke of the day yesterday. We have heard about safeguarding the public interest by the Central Association. However, it is not possible to secure the public interest by such contracts, ladies and gentlemen. Casino isn't growth, of course. There are two in Attica. They grow and one is trying to steal each other's customers. In any case, there's no money for the Greeks to play at the casino. Gentlemen of the liberal economy - as you say you love the liberal economy -, to sell out the public property in contests of one candidate, as is always done either with Cosco or with all that - as will be done in other, imminent agreements - very under the objective value and always in terms to the detriment of the Greek public, it is not something that honors you very much. We see and read that the Egnatia Road agreement will come in a few days, a road that has cost the Greek public billion euros and that one will get for 100 million euros, so that he can manage it for for forty years, when only the annual revenue from the toll touches 50 million euros. What bank would not give a loan to a "investor" - within many introductory forms - in order to get such a rug, such a fillet? The worst of all is that with your long-term inactivity and the deterioration of this area of the Greek, with a climax of what has been happening over the past year with the thousands of illegal immigrants who have ended up in the region, you have manipulated the citizens to accept any solution, provided that it is a solution, even though they are extremely damaging to them in the next period and to the Greek economy, for the Greek state. Everything you have achieved in the labour market, where, after you have broken up everything, people now beg to find a job of EUR 300 or 400. You do the same in the case of the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u153	For us, the Greek should be one of the two, three airports of Attica which would also work for the benefit of the passengers and the millions of tourists coming. And we hope that others will come in the future. And if the design of Attica does not provide for an airport within the city, such as the Greek, it certainly provides for a metropolitan park in Paradise or even better by Hyde Park or Central Park, which would upgrade the neighbouring municipalities and upgrade the entire Athens and Attica and not the malls you want to build. And a provision: The neighbouring municipalities will either be degraded or this investment, in a few years' time, because it is not going to come out, as Mr Tsironi said - who is now gone - will fall. Of course, since the agreement is in favour of them, the Greek State will still pay it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would also like to make an overriding prediction. When the Greek will no longer be used as an airport - ripped runways etc. - then there will be an urgent need to create a second airport in Attica. And then, once again, the proud Greek people will be called upon to pay off the well-known big-working, canalarchs and not, borrowing huge sums, with new memorials, disproportionate to the new projects. If God ever vows us, we will render Caesar Caesar Caesar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u156	Mrs Karakota, it is your turn, but, because of an urgent need that Mr Kikilias has, he has asked to precede. With your permission, give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u157	He's young and handsome too, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u159	I'm honored, Mrs. Caracosta. Thank you very much. Because I was third, but the order has changed to represent the whole Parliament by alteration, which is why I have been in this position. Thank you, though. The way you spoke is a sign of political culture. I am very much covered by what I have heard from our major opposition colleagues and by our rapporteur and Vice-President of the New Democracy. Okay, in a soft way, but everyone has a way of expressing and speaking politically. So I would like us to come back to reality in terms that society can understand, because many times here we are talking about here, and we do not really understand correctly. And because populism really bothers me - I think it is against the public interest - and because it is a disease which has deepened into the political systems and in Europe, possibly in America, but also in our country and we have paid it very much, you will allow me to go back a little bit and see who and what one represents, in this case, in this case, here and if one can speak on behalf of the Greek people as a whole, in part and so on. I have had the honour of being a member of the Regional Council of Attica as a major opposition following a huge battle, which, if you remember, was given the first time that this new institution of the supposedly small Prime Ministers has been introduced, far away from reality. Listen, on the regional council, to which I had the honour of being a colleague with the current President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, and so he can confess whether what I'm saying is true or lying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u160	In 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u161	Yes, Mr. Comrade. ...we have repeatedly seen sloppy majorities, those who may have encouraged local communities to go out on the road and to revolt for the Greek, the Syntagma square for the infamous debt, the port of Piraeus for "COSCO" and the investment more old and so on, to make them libraries. They were coming to the regional council, threatening regional consultants, struggling people, not letting colleagues enter the Ministry of Transport's room at that time, because that's where we were hosted by the Ministry. And what they did not do to prevent this investment from moving forward. And because I do not want to talk about something that will be done with visibility and, if necessary, about which anyone can have reservations or not or stand carefully until they are completed, to see what has been done so far, and if the private initiative in Greece is allowed to work together with the Greek public, it has results and who enjoys these results. Mr. and Mrs. Latsi, in this case, or the Greek people? In the Municipality of Faliro there was an investment in the coastal zone through the Marina. It was supervised by the municipal authority through Mr. Hatzidakis. This investment came from just as much as a part of the investment staff it invested in Greek, the Latsi family. Very nice. So there was a marina of about one kilometre, with shops, with belatedism, as, by the way - I must remind you - on the free beach, on which you and your comrades, following the former Mayor of Greece Mr. Kordidis, insisted on the ability or access to the world, the ordinary people and so on. Let me inform you, ladies and gentlemen, what happens a few years later. This so-called'marina Latsi' - of course, Mr and Mrs Latsi have never been there - is full every day, winter and summer. They are children from the Greek, Faliro, from Glyfada, from Aigaleo, from Peristeri, from Bournazi, from everywhere. They're moms, grandmas, strollers. They're glad to see this investment. It is to the benefit of the Greek people. It's full of life. There's everything you want there, skates, roller skates, bikes, shops, ice cream. It's God's pleasure! Next to the so-called free beach of your former mayor, there is massage, dirt, stench, junkies, syringes, abandonment. This is the great difference ideologically and practically that we have spoken of you and you have done everything you can over the years in order not to go ahead and not to create. You don't need to see with a view to the future what's going to happen. Go for a walk to Faliro, see the simple world, the cosmopolis, where is and where it is! On the beach of Mr. Corgidis, how many are there? Soul doesn't exist! Dirty and stench! And next door, one kilometer down, the beach is full of popular families. No more, please, ladies and gentlemen, fairy tales! That's it! Of course, in terms and rules, of course, with the control of the state, of local societies and their approval. Of course for the benefit of the Greek State, but we've had enough of this story. Go back and apologise, ladies and gentlemen, to colleagues on the regional council and to all these people who have suffered trabourism, bowling, intimidation and pre-compensation. It is disgraceful that some of you, ladies and gentlemen, were not in the previous House here or did not suffer what we on the regional council have been allotted to. You, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Voutsis can tell us why the truth was whether or not they were true. You don't know what had happened in the past few years, how big a poison spilled this wave of populism into the local communities, in the 'bottom House', in the Constitution. Really, where are those ministers you swinged in your hands as heroes and put them here on the seats of this House? Turn through the engagement! You let Chaakato get the chestnuts out of the fire!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u162	And he was in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u163	So the fairy tale is coming! Mr President, I shall conclude. The Greek is a very big investment. It's going to be the Greek. We will make sure that today, as a government tomorrow, it fulfils all the conditions and conditions and no longer delays. And any other major investment can be made in the country, I wish it could come and create such an environment that attracts new investors, because it is the only way to increase the GDP of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And if you want to make a real social policy - and not an unsuccessful social policy - you must know that it cannot be done with the money of the next generations, empowering them, but it must be done - and I shall end, Mr President - with investments that will bring 'hot' money, which will be translated into social policy. We've had enough of the next generations! Let this country go forth at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Karakosta, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u165	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but you have shown me another list and told me that I would speak after two colleagues and others have been inserted. I'm an independent congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u166	No, Mr. Panagoulis, it's the same list. I just don't think you've looked at the show. Look at her, see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u167	Why are you changing the order, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u168	But there's no change. Look at that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u169	I saw it earlier, when I had come to the Bureau, Mr Lykoudi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u170	Here, Mrs. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u171	The truth is, we generally beat the walnut when it has ripe walnuts to get them. We don't beat the platinum that has no wrists. For this reason, you understand why the whole Opposition is constantly hitting SYRIZA, because it is that tree that has fruit. The truth, too, is that the management of defeat is a very important issue for people's psychology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u172	You know something about defeat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u173	Potential people and political experiences are those who know how to manage their defeat culture, which is not happening here. Why? For example, saying: ‘ Run, run, why? Because you want to keep your positions, they did not consume a minimum of food to say 'these people always ran' - that is, the members of SYRIZA, the Left - 'within the movements, never expect anything'. Because a little intelligent to be, you would think that a few years ago no one imagined that the Greek people would take off the left to the government. So don't say that, because, if you read to us all, one, we all have a political past, we have a professional past and we are successful in our lives. So forget that we are here for the parliamentary positions. Think in your own way of life, that you have learned to live and survive through your parliamentary positions. Let's get this over with, so we can get on with it. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] On this particular subject we are discussing today - and I personally am one of those who raised the banners and shouted and fought for the Greek - to see why we were fighting? First of all, I would like to say a great thank you and a great bravo to our Mayor, Mr. Cortzidis, to whom the previous ones referred, because he also raised politically and personally, with his great hunger strike, the burden of exploiting the Greek. What did the use of the Greek mean to us? It meant that since 2001 that this space has been released, it should of course be exploited. We should have studies as a state to see what we are going to do. Where have these studies been since? The studies, you know, should not be designed by individuals, but by the state. That is how a state is meant to exist. The governments have planned a plan to date, a topography, as we say, which says here, the other one, there are archaeological sites, there there are forests, there are preserved monuments? Did you see any government to date making such a plan? The only design you have in your hands is a private company. So we have a different way of thinking. We want a state that plans. You're gonna tell me, why didn't you? I'll get to that later. I want you to remember, everyone in this Chamber, because we were fighting for what use. Because before that, Mr. Kikilias mentioned a very nice plan of the Old Faliroe. Do you remember that Mr. Cortzidis and all of us cut off the private bars that closed the beach with their private centers? Did you forget that? Do you know that Mr. Cortzidis is being tried and asked for money and compensation why he entered foreign property? What foreign properties? The private centers in the cavalry? That's why we were fighting to open the beaches and we're not ashamed of it. We're cool about it. And, despite the difficult conditions of signing for the Greek island, we manage to open these beaches, even for one kilometre. These issues are very serious. We manage to say "yes, sir, but here there is an archaeological site, you must respect it, here there is a monument of modern history and you must respect it". That's what we're talking Of course, it's not the design we'd like. Why? Because you committed us. When? In times not economic crisis. The airport has left since 2001 and you did not take care of periods in which Greece, which were not bound by our lenders, to become a design and to proceed as the state wants and to force individuals to make our own planning. What did you do? You didn't do anything. You have enjoyed the space, as you usually do, in order to give it to individuals. So you arrived two months before we won the election, you signed a slave contract with this company. And we're coming to save what we're saving. Of course, your contract was a sale. What have we done with the financial framework? You signed for 900,000 euros, we managed to do 915 million euros. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But what did we do? Look out! Because this money, as you know, will not go to Greece, but to the loan, we have said, based on our assessments, that 1.5 billion to 3 billion of the Technical Chamber, which you mentioned - yes, we will force them to do projects of 1.5 billion, whose sum is about 2.5 billion. That's what we said. And why did we do that? Because these 1.5 billion will be at least projects in the space. It will, for example, be a part of recycling not only of the particular area, but also of the surrounding municipalities. They'll take over construction and maintenance for fifteen years of the park. I will not go into anything, because I do not have time. But learn to think when you talk about the Left the way the Left thinks, the way the Left plans, the way the Left fights. And it makes sense that Adonis Georgiadis cannot tolerate the hair of the students, the future scientists of Greece. I imagine that some hairs are still in New Democracy at that time. Be well, learn to think another way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I would like to say - half a second - that we belong to that political ideology, which, as our Minister said before, speaks of the democratic way of changing towards socialism. That's our way. We do not recognise that we are ready tomorrow morning to have a revolution, but we will not stop fighting, fighting, being with the movements and taking a step forward in these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u175	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Karakosta, you should listen to Mr Cortzidis yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u176	I heard him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u177	Mr Cortzidis spoke and said: 'Don't vote for it. Respect your past.’ The competitor for the big games you've been talking to us about a moment ago! That is the answer to all your arguments. In one thing you are right: in fact, the inability of the governments of all the years and your governments - and I will come to that - is precisely to design large refreshments. Since the 1970s, we had to plan what will happen in the Greek, when the construction of the airport of Spata began and then some competitors put you black flags in the Spatas, so that the spaces would not change there and become the airport. Then PASOK, when it took over and organised the Olympic Games, while he knew that in 2001 the airport would leave, did not plan Olympic projects there with post-olympic use. He abandoned them. It was made a storeroom for Olympic works. What an orphan - you remember that there were the orphan Olympic works - entered the Greek, anarchy, without any use of the meta-lympics. Dozens of studies came out. As a flag to all the municipal councils and the regional council and the Glyfada Municipal Council, on which I was, the study of the Polytechnic School, which said nothing to do, to plant on the airway trees, to remain whatever facilities are available and only to exploit them. This was the use study coming from the scientific branches and organizations of the Polytechnic School, to which many of your colleagues, and today the government and the House, participated. Giorgos Souflias is coming. It shall submit the first plan for the use of the site. Chaos, because it gives some square for building! It's too bad! Appeals to the Council of State! It becomes the first part of privatization, which in the end does not happen, because the Council of State then considers that it cannot be given - listen to the number - the ten thousand square squares that would be built in the Olympic marina, with a reaction from the PASOK. George Papandreou walks around the place bringing Athebigios, whom we paid 400 thousand euros, stating that he will make the largest park on the planet without any plan. It ends the vision of Papandreou, entering the Pabuki vision: "We will bring the Catarians". And there's a press release Sunday night that he went to Qatar and made a huge deal to give the Greeks the Catarians. We've been through all this, to see how the place has been abused, abandoned, and, finally, it has become the most miserable storeroom of immigrants and refugees all over the planet! A disgrace with the signature of the Left! Shame on the world! And finally comes the first project, which is the government of Papademos 2012, what is founding and recommending "ELLENIC S.A.", which describes exactly what must be done, how much the park is, how much the building is and what the structured spaces are. This company is selling today, with slight minor improvements and reasonable modifications. But this company, this project, which the then government of Papademos, the "progressive", voted with the agreement of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the LAOS, and you were across the street and you were rocking, selling today. Because we're selling a company that has rights over the Greek. The competition, as it seems, was right, because your rapporteur's report says that we were doing very well, that the competitive process started, that the tenders were submitted, that the tenders were fine, that they were evaluated, that the final contractor was selected. If the troika hadn't gotten in the middle of putting it on the prerequisites of the second subsidization of the first evaluation, was there any chance you today would vote for this change in the Greek? Look at yourself and ask them why no Athens MP has been written to speak. Why is your rapporteur from northern Greece? Why has not any of your people in Athens come out to defend this work? Do you know why? Because other things you did on our municipal councils, because others you did on our regional councils, because others you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u178	We talked to the committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u179	Mr Baltas comes and confesss that you want other people. And what does he say here? That the Left, however, has the moral advantage, because it sells today, completes the sale of the Memorandum Protestant Governments Samaras - Venizelos, because, if it had not been forced by the situations, the implementation of this renewal plan of the Greek would not have gone ahead. We would have resorted to an aprantology between high and low trees, between social farms and bostons, as described in Mrs. Duro's program to become Greek. Then it was a social bosom. You have not answered us whether what you are voting on today, because there will be much more to vote on about the Greek. Don't get confused. Many provisions and town planning and economics will come. There's gonna be more to come. He's got a lot of tails. Today we are taking a step. So if you come with half a soul, dead, you will vote all the time. And what you're going to do is finally die out investors and residents, who are waiting to see this land grow and not this is the jewel that it is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to close, Mr President, with just one comment. You have told us that you have solved too many issues. Yesterday I heard the Mayor of the Greek, who says: "You have not solved any of the requests I have put to you or have never met me: municipal fees, waste station or anything else." Also, cemetery theme raised by Mayor Alimos. Have you solved these in the surrounding municipalities? Have you come to an understanding? You have not yet solved the issues of those within the Greek Association of Cretans, the maritime clubs and the Olympic Airways Cultural Center, to which you have imposed fines of EUR 200,000, 300,000, 500,000 for illegal trespassing of the area, which have been decided by the CDE. And they say, "Let's leave, but at least we're not taxly accountable for illegal trespasses." No question is solved. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unfortunately, you are not able to complete this investment. There'll be a troika coming in every time to force it on you. I hope that the time will be short for your stay in power, so that the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will come and at a rapid pace, finally, the Greek one, for us who believed it, who fought in the local communities to believe it with us - because 70% to 80% believe it - to become a place that symbolizes the new era of Greece and Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Varvichiotis. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor for eight minutes. I hope that we will not get over time, because we have already been delayed in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I will try to be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the referendum, we had two elections in 2015, January and September. At the SYRIZA conference, which will be in October, we will analyse and discuss open procedures and the first government of SYRIZA, in other words what we did right. For example, I am proud of the hundred doses, of dealing with the humanitarian crisis, but also with non-economic issues, such as our attempt to bring humanism to prisons. Of course, we will also discuss things that did not go so well and why we had a defeat in the negotiations. I hope and expect that both the New Democracy and the PASOK will discuss and tell us, in the five years that they were the ones in both years when others were, what they did right and what they did wrong, because that account from your side I have not heard of it. I have no idea if you made any mistakes, if 25% of the reduction in income could be less, if it were only the foreigners or you also made mistakes. You will, of course, have that from us. We will bring into October an account - at least as far as SYRIZA is concerned - explaining these things. So what we have before us is what we presented in the September elections to the Greek people, that is, part of the compromise, is that we accept this privatisation. We told the Greek people - and I think he believed us - that we have a better chance of renegotiating, protecting the popular layers, supporting the public space. That was the project after September. The opposition has questioned the financial gains from this renegotiation on the Greek. He has only said about economics and nothing else. Let's talk about the finances first, and then I'll tell you about the other one. It is true, therefore, that we have negotiated for a certain amount of EUR 1.5 billion, which will be for public works. So, in my view, what we won at the price as Greece, as a public institution, is the price together with those investments that will be made for the public space. So it is EUR 900 million plus EUR 1.5 billion, which reaches about 2.4 billion, which is a little less than what the TEU said some years ago. That's the first. The second is this: the Vice-President told us that we are counting on losing EUR 500 million in the first year and the second year we changed because of the IOB study. I would like to say to him that for tax revenue what IOBE says is that for the total period of twenty-five years of the project it will be EUR 14.1 billion, i.e. around EUR 563 million on average. It doesn't mean it'd be that long for the first two years, which you say we're late. The third and most important thing is that you all know that a very big disadvantage for all public works in Greece over the last fifty years - I imagine before - is that it is not counting who will support them. You don't have to go to the Olympic projects to see this. We're doing works notices. It is not possible in the countries of Europe that I know not to say: 'Good, I will build this field, this hospital. Who will maintain it?’. Within this contract, there is that maintenance for the public part of the project is now an obligation for investors. And that's in economic gains. Now we go to non-economic gains, for which I have heard nothing, as if there are no such things, apparently because some people here know the price for each thing and the value of each one, said by an Irish theatrical writer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u182	Oscar Wilde.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u183	That's right. He says the Vice-President - and he refers to Alexis Tsipras - 'I will not abandon the battle to make the park open'. It says Article 3 in the first paragraph of the Amendment Convention: no restrictions will be imposed on the movement of citizens. This will essentially be a common area. So what did we do? An internal courtyard, which was in the master plan and for which there was no access, now has very much access and is not a closed courtyard. So it's a big part that's gonna be for the public space. I must also tell you that the master plan is not binding. The master plan, apart from its other disadvantages, such as the lack of topography, does not know where the archaeological site is, where the monuments and all that Mr Baltas has said is not binding. So here, when we say that it will not be a closed yard, but it will be open, that is a commitment that investors have made. And so that's a win. For the New Democracy, the only changes we have achieved are economic in nature, which calls into question them. For New Democracy there are no changes in the green, changes in public spaces, changes in free access to the sea and everything else. I'll be done, so I'll be in time. I see that the opposition has taken too much courage and warned that it is wrong to make your strategy, to read the newspapers and to take courage that the government is falling apart, that the negotiation is not going to take place, that the prerequisites are in the air. Very quickly, you will be disobeyed about it. Do not confirm each other, the newspapers and you. That's not a good practice. What I want to say to you is that, historically in Europe, the Left has always been well not when things got worse in the economic cycle, but when the economic cycle started to go up, because the world, when it's downstream, is afraid and, when it's scared, has conservatively reflexes. Know that the world trusts the Left, precisely because it trusts that only Left can manage growth in the right way, only Left can give workers rights, so they can also benefit from growth, only Left can protect the public space. That is what we will try to do, with all the limitations, with all the compromises. And that is why you will soon see that the climate will be reversed in the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Amyras, I'll apologize. Mr Pafilis, who precedes, in accordance with the parliamentary order, has asked for the floor. Immediately afterwards, you two will talk. Show a tolerance. Thank you. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, we have said, you know, that three Members will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u186	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u187	Yeah, that's right. They spoke three MPs. The Minister's talking, and then I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u188	That's what I'm saying. After you, I say they follow three MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u189	After me, it's okay. It's okay. But don't cut me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u190	It's Mr. Amyras, and then we'll keep going. Don't make a big deal of it. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u191	As well as Mr. Tsakaloto, Mr. Anelli had said that the so-called Left can do things that the Right cannot do. You know that very well. That's exactly what you're doing. What's Greek? One could simply say that a revelation that SYRIZA follows literally, apart from individual improvements and others, the policy followed by the previous parties. That's not all, though. This is easy to understand in the contract with the Greek, which you are bringing here today. In fact, I was listening to someone while I wasn't watching who was talking on TV, and I thought he was talking to a member of the New Democracy. It turns out it was SYRIZA's. I did not understand why he used exactly the same arguments that we heard from New Democracy the previous time. What now proves here? It turns out that SYRIZA serves - I will say it so raw - the interests of capital and even presents it with a philosophical cloak. Here's the big scam. Well, let's see, is it, anyway? And to make a few things clear, so that the Greek people know. Mr. Chakalato and Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u192	Balta!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u193	Balta. I know very well! I simply ask you: What is the contract you signed and brought to Parliament? Who made the strategic planning? How about you? No, of course not. This strategic planning has been done for many years before the crisis, and it is about the model of capitalist development planned by the country's ruling class, to say so, namely capital, that is, those who have power for both the country and especially for Attica. That is exactly what you are doing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u194	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u195	Are we lying? That's right! You'll hear them later for the games. I'll see you around. So what you come to do today, presenting it with a philosophical cloak, is the country's design of capitalist development - and the Attica Regulatory Plan and all that - that you know was designed before the crisis, before 2009. This says that, firstly, Greece will be a country - a node of freight transport - this is the one and there there are various controversies and there they are playing too great interests, because it is a gateway to Europe - and, secondly, that tourism will be a key element of this capitalist development, because of the advantages that you have developed very well, Minister. And that's the way it is, but I'll explain below. Also that Attica will eventually be converted into a central one - so says the plan - tourist destination. And that is normal, because Greece is a beautiful country and has comparative advantages, which I do not want to repeat. Therefore, based on all this, the 'harks', the big capital thinks where it will invest, where it will make big profits and in what area. And the choice is the tourist use of the sea front, which, as you said very well and elegantly, starts today from the Greek and will continue until Sounio. And there is another plan for Eastern Attica, for the other side, which really concerns the development of the whole region. For what purpose, though? That's the question. Why will it develop? And here I am not addressing you, to the people of Attica, who can't go to take a bath. It will develop to make huge profits by exploiting the country's natural wealth the monopolistic interests, the large business groups. Yes or no? That's the plan, isn't it? Who's doing it? Is there social planning by the state to create? Greece could be a paradise, literally a paradise! Is it possible that Greek workers who live in Attica can't go bathe and want a family of EUR 60 and 100 to go to a table, which has entrances, chairs and everything else? For what purpose, then, is the design? Just to be able to invest in the pond and make huge profits. What will that have to do with your plan? Let's talk about it! Because that's where you say a lot. And I said before that I thought I was listening not to the New Democracy, but to other opinions, more advanced. It will exacerbate the position of the people's strata, which will have even more difficult access. All of Attica! Well, where do you live? Don't you know how popular families live? In order for someone to go swimming on the nearest beach, you have to think very well, pay and go after all. Plus, he's not on a vacation at all. So we say that you continue the same policy by sacrificing people's needs in the altar of capitalist profit. I want to put two more issues in general. First of all, the increase in the tourism sector, which you all regard as a serious industry, will have other and major repercussions. Firstly, it exposes the economy to great risks relating to the fluctuations in the global economy, which is well known. Secondly, a directive can break the whole tourism programme. Yes or no? With a proboss! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask you to give me the time of my denunciation. Do you remember what happened in Mali? And blow up the whole economy in the air. You cannot support an economy in tourism and even imported tourism. It will have disastrous consequences if we move in that direction. Thirdly, this type of capitalist development, which suits the great interests and great monopolies, because despite what they give - I will say a few words below - they receive too much, they build large units, large complexes. You go out and advertise jobs. Tell us how many jobs will be lost from around the area, from a micromass? A number of small businesses will be pissed off by these magmas they offer and others, plus advertising. So it is not compensated for the growth you are saying, capitalist growth is what we say, with real jobs, but it is fictitious. So you're talking about fair growth. Comparative advantages of Greece. We agree it does. We say that Greece is one of the world's richest countries, its size, many sectors and the natural environment. For who? What fair growth? Who are you talking about? And Mr. Georgiadis comes out in the tiles. Who are you talking about? He will develop with hotel workers with 200, 300, 400 euros at most, with ten, twelve hours of work and a people of Attica unable to access the beach, who are at his feet, in his courtyard is essentially. You say, "We give a kilometre." Well, are you kidding us? Would you give a kilometer in between, that'll put chairs, that'll take 7 euros for each chair and every deck, and people will go in there to bathe? Is that it? Could not the whole of Attica be liberated and not contaminated and can the whole world at least enjoy certain things? Fair growth doesn't exist, so people know. What does a fair growth mean? What do you give? You give the natural environment of the country, you grant it to monopolies, to large business groups. It doesn't matter if it's not Latsis or "yes", "yes", "yes", Qatar or anything else. They're monopolies. They don't have any homes or anything. Where they win there they go. They don't care about anything else. You give them the opportunity to take advantage of the best place, give them cheap - free - workers to earn huge profits. Because they're not idiots, they're coming to invest in an area so they don't make huge profits and have reduced profits. And that's what you call fair growth. What will the world gain? What will the people of Attica gain? Nothing. On the contrary, it will worsen its position. He won't be able to go and bathe. And this is the first step, because the second step, and here we are, and we will see it, is the rest of the place, until Sounio, which you will do exactly the same. So what are you doing in practice? And leave the general theories now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u196	Marxists are supposed to be in favor of theory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u197	Do you turn the free space, the comparative advantages of the country, in luxury, into an expensive commodity that can be enjoyed by some, and even by you in the 1953 law on the protection of foreign investment, which you and Mr Stathakis have described in your books as - will you tell me? - Colonial. That's where you're going with him. And that is what you call a compromise. Excuse me, you said we were going for democratic socialism. I'll answer that. You said "Let's go there, but we have defeat, we have temporary retreat" and so on. Let me tell you that this is called full subjection to capitalism, and indeed what you are selling - and you sell it more well - it is that we can best develop capitalism, rather than traditional ones, which are also hostile to the people's interests. We're supposed to have a background - to speak in "natural" greek - about the values of the Left. What values on the Left? Do you have any relationship with what you're doing today, with what they fought for and gave their lives tens of thousands and millions of people on the planet? Do you have anything to do with this? With those who fought for a fair society, against this exploitation, in this terrible system that exists? And you're using it as an ad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u198	You're finishing up your thoughts, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u199	So I'm done. The New Democracy is now coming out on the tiles. It makes sense. But he says half the truth. It says 'at last, you join us' in privatisation. Who made the biggest statisms in capitalism? Your party, Mr. Georgiadis. He did them when he needed, so that the people could pay for the big infrastructure projects, so that he could then give them to the capitalists. When capital can't make profits, then the urban system comes... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Urban governments come, they go state-run, that is, people pay the infrastructure and, when they are profitable, give it to private individuals. This can happen again, although it will be difficult with the course we have. We are ending and saying this to the Greek people: now it is also proved in practice that satisfying the people's needs in this system with any management that cannot be carried out. We are saying one more thing, that it is fraudulent policy, that I am not saying personal, for those who promise with various crumbs, which are not even worthy - and Diamantos Manolakou and the Secretary of our party - said so - that they will be able to carry a philosophical management, particularly by talking about the Greek and more generally, managing the same system. Only in its overthrow, but only in the center...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u200	I've been waiting for you, but somewhere you should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u201	Please complete, Mr. Palphie. Minister, don't answer so we can finish sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u202	I had time, I could come at ten o'clock and say more. So I'm done. So the road is in conflict, in overthrowing this system no matter what you do. That's why we're telling you now, because you're still cultivating delusion. One more thing. Those of the SYRIZA MPs and especially the second of Athens and I will now say it from the Step, disagree to go to Stepa to declare it, not to hide it. We could vote on a roll-call vote, we have the opportunity. But it doesn't make any sense, because everyone agrees, all the rest of the parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Palphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u204	So let them go out here and say that they do not agree, that they are voting against it and not hiding it. As for the movements, Mrs Caracosta, we were fighting for other things. But you probably fought to close the beaches and not the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Amyras, a Parliamentary representative from the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Baltas, Mr Tsironis, Mr Flabouraris, the ministers who have taken the floor today have confused us. You must first of all agree between you whether the contract, the investment of the Greek is defeat or not. If it is a regression or step forward. Mr Flamouraris said, 'We did great'. Mr Baltas said: "We lost a battle. We have led to a compromise and defeat." The same thing has just been repeated by Mr Chakalotos. These fronts - backwards - leftovers just show that you have a political problem. The compromise and defeat, Mr Baltas, do not care at all if it is your political compromise or SYRIZA etc. We don't care about your defeat at all. We are concerned that defeat and political compromise, which you invoke, are defeated by the country, because you cannot get an investment ready, mature to rock for ten years and then tell us that the whole problem was that from within court, as you described the green space in Greek, we managed and gave it access to the sea. Is that why you were blocking and chaining yourself, not personally, but so many of your partners, in the bars of the Greek? So that was your request? Have you forgotten in November 2014 your major demonstrations that the Greek is not sold? Now it's sold and sold. And well he does, in my view, the personal and also the river. But we're losing a chance today. Today we should say: here is the opportunity for the political forces, after three memoranda, to decide that the only way to get the country out of this crisis, to come out of the open, is growth, to strengthen jobs, investment, healthy entrepreneurship, privatisation and tourism. The word 'private' does not have hot pepper. Now that you're slowly beginning to realize that the only way for a country to take off or at least to leave the gutter is by investing it is to start putting new concepts into your vocabulary. Fifteen years the area remains untapped in Greek. Amazing plot! Six thousand acres were the most luxurious dump on the planet. We did not plan on time what we wanted to do in Greek. Every government that passed had another shot. Every minister who has been going through the same governments over the last fifteen years has had his own plan. The country and the previous governments did not use the post-Alympic juncture when there was a current that was positive for the Greek economy or for Greek society or for Greek tourism. However, history and SYRIZA have been carrying it out for a year and a half, as many privatizations as not all previous governments had done together in the previous thirty years, the fourteen airports in the Germans, the "TRAINOSE", the Greek, now the Egnatia Street, the Golf Afantou in Rhodes, all of these, with your teeth tightened up, constantly giving contradictory messages. I heard Mr. Tsironi, the dear Minister. As he knows, I did not have a problem and criticise him, where I think he is wrong - a politician is - but also praise him, as I did last week with the forest cooperative bill, which we will discuss tomorrow. Mr Chironis cannot, as Minister, sign the investment to support it theoretically and formally by signing it, and this is where the Stepma will yield it. It can't be done. Or degrade her and take your hat and leave and don't sign on something that you think is wrong or you're standing aside and quiet. Of course, Mr. Chironis is the bravest of fellow Members of Athens. Where's SYRIZA's Second Athens? Where'd he disappear? No MEP will take the floor? Does he not have the power to say the same thing he said when he was chaining to the Greek and petrified the investment? Fifteen years the area remains untapped in Greek. Amazing plot! Six thousand acres were the most luxurious dump on the planet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u207	Where were you yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u208	What's changed? It's changed SYRIZA's political DNA. It's very simple. Instead of thinking and seeing that the Greek society wants investment and wants to go out ahead, instead of hugging what it signed and promoting on the basis of a common acceptance of political forces, it fortified behind tricks, dictionaries, slogans and trying to get the dog to have the pie all over. No, no, no, no, Both will burn. The problem is that we do not trust you that you will manage to drive this investment in a proper way until the end of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u209	This is where we managed so much privatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u210	You've managed to privatize them, yes, but here's the monster, dear Mr. Manda. Just think about it. I'll tell you a clue to think about it differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u211	You guys think about it differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u212	Do you know how many new buildings they're going to be built? Nine hundred and sixty-eight. In other words, nine hundred sixty-eight building permits will need to be issued. Do you trust in this Greek public administration, in these Ministries and in all these political weeds of your place, which, at every opportunity, create problems, that we will be leading to an easy way of licensing? Now it's getting hard. The monster's in front of us. Here's the building, there's the town planners, there's the space, there's the streams, there's the woods, there's the archaeologicals. Who's gonna handle all this? Ladies and gentlemen, following the admission of the delusion of the Prime Minister, the time has come for the political adulthood of most of the SYRIZA forces. Political adulthood. I do not see my dear colleague, the majority rapporteur. I wanted to ask him a question. I note that he used the word 'benefits' for this contract twelve times. Of course, he did not say anything to us - which is also an indicator of political adulthood - for two things: first, skyscrapers. Second, casino. Sort of shit about the casino? Gently. For the skyscrapers? Finally, I say to you, that Greek culture, town planning, living politics, first of all in acceptance, and secondly in the construction of a skyscraper, goes on. Or we'll rock him and the skyscraper to get him clean, why does he get us into the eye? When I told you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are too many issues, too many thorns and too many weeds, I was talking about - I say this to be practical, because I like to be practical in our speech: first of all, what about relocations? Other colleagues have said so in relation to the cost of relocation. I learn that various trade unions, various trade unions and various trade unionists have embedded the legs and do not want to leave where they work, in the area of the old airport of the Greek. The Army is gone. But what about Ethel? You have to tell us. Will ETEL continue to have the most expensive plot in Europe as a parking lot for its buses? What is the timetable for their removal? What about the steadfast buildings? You know that the services of the competent ministries have gone and have classified several buildings, what they had to do, and in 2006 and 2009. Now, I hear they're still going. What's going on? Haven't the services found in the keepers not been perceived? Every three years they'll go and make someone? You either go and take it off, and if you're sure to keep it or not. What about the arbitrary? You know, ladies and gentlemen, that according to Law 4178/2013, in order to demolish an arbitrary one, you should first legitimise it. So you understand the maze of bureaucracy. What about issuing the permits I told you about? I believe that the Hellenic Office, which is part of the Ministry of Finance, cannot cope with such a large volume of town permits. It takes another form that handles licences as a single body, as a funnel - to say this - that accepts a thousand two different problems, bureaucratics and others and resolves them as one single body. What about the waste? The municipalities and they do well - we heard them yesterday at the hearing - are asking for space in cooperation with the Ministry, of course. LAMDA, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lamassoure, for his excellent report. We need to know. We also need to know what is going to happen with the environmental study. It is a little too much for the car in front of the horse, for you to learn, for you to hear whether to sign such a contract or vote or not - it doesn't matter so much - without knowing what environmental conditions are in advance. The form "ELLENIC S.A." has shown you the way. I don't know them, they don't know me. The administration of "ELLENIC S.A." you put it. Still, he's done a good job. Clear the red tape bucket. I recognize that. But what's going to happen from now on? Ladies and gentlemen, we are thinking about reducing unemployment. Keep an eye on the decline in unemployment. This should be the key to every investment effort that we will support as a political system or not, of course, on the basis of some rules. We need a new model of economic and tourist development with sustainable characteristics. However, if we want to move forward, I would advise you to take a look at the past. Let's go to the bottom of the Myrtle Sea outside the Antikythera in the Roman oath. Orkas is a type of large sailboat, containers of ancient times. They could carry rough tones. There, then, after almost two thousand years - when the discoveries were made in 1901 and then the second survey in 1971 and now the third one discovered the Antikythera mechanism - the bottom of the Roman oath shows us the way. They collaborate and finance, ladies Ministers, who fear the private initiative that you have the hang-up to bread cheese. They finance this great discovery and research. Who? The Swiss company HUBLOT, OTE-COSMOTE, JF WHITE CONSTRUCTING COMPANY, SWORDSPOINT FOUNDATION, Costa Navarino. I'm telling you individuals and I'm not afraid to tell individuals from the Step of the House, because thanks we can say that the Antikythera mechanism, the world's first computer from the payment of human beings came to light, is being studied...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u213	And the Lasskarides Foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u214	And the Lasskarides Foundation. Sure. It is also studied and shown thanks to the private initiative. If you wanted to be consistent with your control, then fly out to individuals. Do not accept the financing of private individuals on the Antikythera shipwreck, and I can get you the money to make up for it and deposit it. Recruitment in public from June 2015 to June 2016 according to ELSTAT data - there are twenty-seven thousand five hundred non-SAP people - "Definitely, of course, of Themistocleus" - and you have spent the twenty-seven thousand of your five-seven employees the half of you we would need for pensioners, i.e. 450 million euros. Either you're a prisoner from the beginning to the end or then with a foreign gut, don't make funerals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u217	Because your name has been mentioned, you have the floor for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u218	With all due respect, Mr. Amyras, don't worry. My position will not degrade the project. If the project is degraded, it will be degraded by the market as it was with Olympiad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u219	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u220	No, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u221	I would like to make it quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u222	No, no. No clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u223	Why shouldn't I ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u224	Mr Constantine Tasoulas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u225	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u226	But what clarification now? You referred to the Minister, Mr Tsironi. He answered and closed the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u227	The transports you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u228	Quiet, please. Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today one of the largest investments in Greece. There seems to be a vast majority for this investment. And it seems that the SYRIZA MPs, who at least have the courage or indulgence for the public to speak, maintain political trenches, policy of retreat, obviously, wanting to say that when they said no to investment, they meant not to the squares of reconstruction, when they said no to the Greek sale, they meant the square meters of the park, when they said no to the sale and when Mr. Tsipras said "if you want this investment to be voted on Samaras", he meant the kilometre of the coastal performance to the bathtubs. There are several ways of expressing themselves. Obviously, clarity is not within his positive SYRIZA. This investment, to be honest - because this country in this crisis is going through a need for honesty - gives its mark and the measure of what needs to be done faster and more extensively in the country to get out of the crisis. The country needs significant investments as soon as possible. It needs a centre-right line, a party like the New Democracy, to be bolder than it was in the past. The country also needs a left-wing party, such as SYRIZA, which must at least be, because of the crisis and the circumstances, I am not saying more sincerely, but at least sincerely. The daring of us in the past has been lacking and the sincerity and taking responsibility for you today. And if that was harmful on our part in the past, your current behavior is appalling. And that's why. This investment changes the landscape in Attica, Athens. That's why the landscape changes in Greece. It changes it as to the economic improvements it will bring about. It is an investment of 8 billion ultimately and the price of 915 million is part of this investment. It is an investment that favours work at a time of despair and a tragic demand for work. It has ten thousand jobs in the construction of the project and seventy - five thousand jobs in the operation of the project. It undeniably favours tourism, because it gives a new stigma for Athens. It is estimated that it will attract a million new tourists, in addition to tourists for Athens, for Attica for Greece, when the project takes its full form. It is a project, which truly favours the environment and favours it in a sustainable way, not in a theoretical way. These two million square meters, these two thousand park acres, if you add the six hundred thousand square meters of public spaces, are twenty times as much as the Royal Garden is next to us. All of this gives the measure of a new form of development, giving the measure of things that should have become faster and more decisive. Everything else is literally out of a lot. And you should at this critical moment, since you are voting for this bill, since you advocate and you signed it, not to do so by saying 'we have been forced', 'we have compromised in relation to our objectives', or as Mr Tsironis said just before - and I do not know if it was wishful or fearful what he said, I fear that it was a wish - 'the market will show whether this investment will yield'. It may imply that he wishes this thing not to work and not to be repeated. The country is in a critical phase. The country has lost a great deal of opportunity. We're late. I insist that in autumn 2014 the country was at the threshold of exit from the crisis and that more and more admit it today. And instead of following the course of exit from the crisis, launched by the Samara government and for which the Greek people had paid a high price, the SYRIZA - ANEL government rebuilt the country in an unprecedented economic downturn, new obligations, new cuts, new taxes. We have reached the point, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what you are doing is right to do with the best - which undermines the right - and what you are willing to do wrong. That's how I describe your government. You voluntarily make an effort to improve pluralism in the media and you have brought an incredible legal, political, moral, emotional hub. It will be many years now - not to say decades - where the only ones who thank you for what you have brought to the broadcasting scene will be the lawyers of the parties involved who will exchange actions, appeals to administrative courts in the country and to the European courts abroad. Everything you do right is wrong - so you make it miserable, fake and unbelieving, therefore, you undermine it from the beginning - whatever you do wrong, you do so willingly. That is why I think the reality is that such a government does not suit this country. This country needs another government that is bolder, more honest and consistent with the demands of the time. With regard to how you feel, you remind me of a shocking poem not of an Irish or Irish poet, but of a Alexandrian poet, which I will dedicate to you by ending: "What a disaster, while you are burned for the fine and great works, this unrighteous fate of encouragement and successes to refuse you. And what a terrible day you're giving in and leaving for the Sussa and going to the courtyard of Artaxerxerxes. And favorably, he puts you in his courtyard and offers you satrapes and stuff. And you take these with despair, those things you don't want. But your soul hurts and others want." The satraps about SYRIZA that cause despair are power, are responsibilities, are the exit from the crisis. His soul hurts for demagogy, for populism, for flattery of the people. It hurts what harmed the country and what contributed to becoming the signifier of the swan song of postpopulation. There you must return to what your soul hurts, because power, responsibility, the correction of the country does not lift it. So, turn back to where you were before, because sooner - and sooner than you think and adapt to it - the Greek people will take care of it, as in the past, through the fluctuations in their choices to place you where your soul is hurting and where you want, where the posters are showing against this investment, where the division of the Greek people you have caused and where all the illusions of your populism show. You are the swan song of Postpopulation and there you will, with the vote of the Greek people, be much shorter than you imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinos Tsouula. Mr.Efstathios Panagoulis, Independent MEP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, the SYRIZA Government with its partner, the Red Line Party, reminds me of the folk song 'Take what you want to be an old-fashioned'! They've got the deputy, of course. To blackmail the red line party, they have the new representative of the Delphi Mansion, Mr. Vassilis Leventis. "The Greek is not sold." I remember it was the 2014 regional elections, when the renowned and unjustified mayor of Greek, Christos Cortzidis, held a gathering at the Mayor's Mayor's Hall, in which they were too many people, executives and SYRIZA's and other parties of the Anti-Population at the time. He had spoken to the President of SYRIZA and said that the Greek would never be sold. Not only is the Greek sold, but is currently sold at a degrading price. I'm against the sale, and I'll explain why. I am a baby - nourishment of the region when Glyfada had a thousand inhabitants, when Alimos - Surmenes as we called them at that time - and Argyroupoli did not exceed two and a half thousand inhabitants. The point is that at the moment the Greek is sold at a degrading price. In the areas that I mentioned and in the neighbouring municipalities the square is not sold under 600 euros and is about 1,500 euros and 1,700 euros and the Greek comes and sells it to Mr. Latsis 150 euros the square meter. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of what I will say to you: this scandal will erupt. Some pay a check to the Latsi Group. The scandal will be bigger than the Kalogerica scandal. And I ask you well and especially you, SYRIZA’s friends: What was the biggest scandal of Antipoliticism? The biggest scandal we said was Mr Koskotta, 20 billion euros, 60 million euros. Then we'll also put Chohazopoulou. How much was it? It was 30, 40, 50 million. We reach 100 million. And a jet, pretending to be the contractor, has taken 127 million and some change. What, then, is the greatest scandal of all time? We saw yesterday a serious businessman - I have no problem - in the committee of inquiry on the loans of parties, etc., Mr Giannis Vardinoyannis, who said that over 15 to 17 million cannot come out of this story. And the airbirds gathered with the "lady" Mr. Savvidis and others and gave unseen sums. And Mr. Kaloggitsa. Mr. Kaloggitsa owes the workers. Mr. Kallagris hasn't got any paperwork to wipe his sweat. And you presented him as a big investor. He pawned, says, some fields in Ithaca.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u232	Minister, don't laugh. You signed them, the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Constantinople, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u234	All Mr. Kaloggitsa' contracts have been signed on your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u235	You, you, you! Remember that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u236	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u237	All contracts were signed on your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u238	Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u239	All these so-called businessmen are your children! Rest them! Don't make fun of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u240	Minister, please. Not dialogue like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Tsipras's company has been purchased.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u242	But there's no dialogue like that. Please. It is not a Chamber, it is not a debate that takes place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u243	It's not possible! The nerve...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u244	Sit down, man! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u245	Please, there is no dialogue like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u246	You've been feeding them for years! All the contracts are yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u247	Sit down because he interrupted the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u248	Please, we interrupted Mr. Panagoulis. Mr. Panagulis, keep going. Excuse me for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u249	Minister, because you interrupted me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u250	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u251	Yeah, you interrupted me, I was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u253	I want to tell you something. You remind me, when I hear you - not only today, but sometimes - that economist who is against the hunt of wild animals for furs and goes at the same time to the fur shop and requires that furs made up of forty-two animals. Mr Tsakalotos spoke to us about the economy. Mr Tsakalotos has not appeared in the House since April for a timely question that has been tabled for the sixth or seventh time. I have asked him a question for two and a half months and, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, he must answer in twenty-five days. About whether he's repatriated the 1 million-dollar and something else he had in foreign banks? He hasn't answered. And he's coming to talk to us today about the hundred doses. What hundred doses? Do you know how many today are fulfilling their obligations towards a hundred instalments, ladies and gentlemen? Not even 50%. To get to the point, I'm in favour of investment. But I am against this investment. Why, what's going to happen? The neighbouring municipalities and the southern sector, when this project is completed - and I will tell you how it will be completed - will have become a vast cemetery, because all the shops will be closed down. Miltiades Varvitsiotis knows it, he's a Glyfadiot. All the stores in Glyfada, Argirupolis, Alimos, Kalithea, Moschato. Thousands of jobs will be lost in the face of those created. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, a Chinese proverb says 'when the finger shows the moon, the idiot looks at the finger'. Do you think the Latsi Group is going to put a single euro on the investment? We'll see. Here we will, ladies and gentlemen, have health. The first project to be done will be the casino. And with the money from the casino of five million people, of which today is the Attica basin, it will start building the works. This has been agreed that the first project to be done will be the casino. If you dare, gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the Red Line Party, why don't you bring an amendment that says that in the casino, those who have an annual income of at least EUR 40,000 will be allowed to enter and that the residents of the neighbouring municipalities will not be allowed to enter? That is what is in Europe, if you want to know. Here's what you want with this money Mr. Latsis to do with the great work he took from time to time, because he's making a note. We'll say which note in the future. In the name of debt, ladies and gentlemen, this sale cannot be served. You sacrificed wages, pensions and rights. And this valuable space is also sacrificed. As has been sacrificed, ladies and gentlemen, the port of agony, the airports, the 'TRAINOSE' instead of the degrading price of EUR 50 million, and public health has been impoverished! Thirty-five thousand workers are currently away from public health, from hospitals! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I was interrupted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u254	I gave you three minutes more, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u255	And another three minutes will give me that Mr. Georgiadis has interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no, of course not. Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u257	On the other hand, simple loans of EUR 127 million are being given and a little bit, as we have said, to Mr Kalogritsa. And I'll be done. Today I heard the news - I don't know if it's true - that Amydaleza is inaugurating. And I say that because I was in the committee on prison rights when I was in SYRIZA as opposition. This is an inhuman area that we have denounced. I had not visited him when our former colleague, Mrs Catrivanu, was president, because on the back of my mind something was going. You shut him down and bring him back. I don't know if now in terms of reinstatement is to put in prisoners there, immigrants and refugees, and no balls in the leg, as we see in American films, can't be removed at all. Mr President, this shop is unacceptable. We are all in favour of investments, however, under proper conditions. For these reasons, I have mentioned many others - because I see Mr Leventis' dear representative as ready to protest - I will vote against knowledge and because with the region I am being associated with with emotional reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u259	I'm done with this. Mr Tsakalotos must finally come on Friday, Mr President of the House, Mr Voutsi. Six times he hasn't come. Should we make him a violent induction? He's not answering the questions, Mr. Voutsi. It's going to be twenty-five days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u260	Good, Mr. Panagoulis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u261	We ask a timely question and it doesn't show up. And he came today to talk to us about the economy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u264	We heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u265	Because Mr. Tsakalotus carries a red backpack and because he's believed he's the successor to Che Guevara, so he's not coming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u266	Mr Dimitris Koukoutsis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Carras, you're right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, may I ask Mr Panagulis not to leave because I want to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u270	Yeah, right after Mr. Koukoutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u271	Say what you want. I'm not mistaken for you. I'm in favour of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u272	Yeah, good. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I think we are a little unfair to SYRIZA's and co-government MPs, thus hitting them unrelentingly. Why, just sit down for a minute. They're not doing anything wrong. For ninety-nine years this space will be provided. What is it? 2115 will be in the Greek people again. They're going through the years. Don't think so! On the other hand, consensually, all the Memorandum parties today promote a scandal of national, ecological, social and environmental interests that hides enormous interests. Mr. Chakalotos said that the economic cycle of the days has the impression that he's taken the impotence. No, he's taken it away and knows very well, as the whole world knows, not only in Greece but also throughout Europe, where the reflexes are going. New Democracy and the PASOK are invoking SYRIZA that he did not quickly. I mean, there's against who's more memorial, who brings the measures faster. Indeed, as the friend Mr Georgiadis said, the Left is being humiliated today and this role is being played by SYRIZA, namely to go back to 3% or 4%. If he goes there, however, that is to 3% or 4%, these nice people of the Renewable Left will be left, who is a 3% to 4% from the time of the late Leonidas Kyrikos. But what about those rodents, those PASOK thieves you've gathered? Where are those poor guys going? Where will they be hiding? That's the difference. Mr Georgiadis says 'A, we will vote, but we are not the same'. Yes, sir. In other words, he is concerned about the ideological identity of the Left. Just a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. He's not here, and he doesn't talk much about him. There he was in the corner hidden, while voting "yes" for the mosque and he went out. The cohabitation pact also voted for it and came out of a rocket. And it says "So, with the finger, the world will show the Left". Why, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Vorides how will they be shown? I think it's not difficult in today's day to sell - and very well he does and it's honorable - the Greek Secretariat and suddenly turn it into the Koran, because with the vote he put his hand in, and that's why he put it. So let us now look at a very small history. The recovery plans are not new, but they have started since 1998. Let us not forget that in the 1990s it was one of Spraus' most famous proposals at the time to reduce government deficits. At that time, the Simitis government launched an architectural contest of ideas on the basis of the prediction of building up a thousand acres and planting - in introductory form - and a number of other commercial uses. Approximately the same design came in 2007 on a New Democracy Government with Mr. Souflias. It is the same who signed the concession contracts - on introductory lines - of the motorways with the expensive tolls for us and the certainly profits for the big-estate people. Thank God I was elected MP and I have tolls free at least! That's it! In 2009 and 2010, PASOK, the Sprau idea of selling the Greek area to cover, says, deficits. In fact, at that time, Jeffrey was provoking the land to a group of Emir of Qatar, but the consulate didn't get us out. The extent finally passed in the HIDED, in this notorious fund, which contracted to take out all public property into the hammer, all the silver in the state. In 2012, therefore, the competitive process for the proposed investor began. At that time there were four groups, there was a good cooking, one left, that is, the Latsis Group with the consortium, with the Chinese and Arab Armarists. But what about the food? One speaker mentioned this location as Riviera. It's really the Greek Riviera. But who will enjoy it, Greek workers with the wages of 400 euros? With a simple calculation, the company buys from the Greek State at the impressively low price of EUR 147 per square, when its price was estimated at more than EUR 20 billion in crisis. Even the Ministry of Finance itself had estimated its value to 5 billion euros in 2008 and fell to 1.27 billion euros in 2013. Of course, the government and the GOI say there is an independent valuer that shrinks it between EUR 550 and 700 million. But you all know how objective these valuers are. If you open a website and see what price the square meter is sold in these areas, you will find that it does not fall below 3,000. According to a study by the National Technical University, only the relocation of public services will cost us, the citizens, 2 to 2.5 billion. Apart from this, there are a number of tax exemptions to the private group, as is done in all other undertakings in public contracts, with the law. Anyway, let's not extend to this. But there are other issues. For example, environmental. Sadly, time does not let us talk more extensively and say about a city that houses half the country's population. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Should we talk about the property? We do not have time to say about something very important, the destruction of important antiquities, which is an important parameter. I do not have time to say about violations of European law, about the International Convention of the Aarchus, the Florence Convention, the 2001 directive of the European Union, urban overcomings, the price that is so very low and constitutes a direct violation of the financial interests of the Greek public. In October 2014, the TEI estimated that the investment value of the Greek is 3,3 billion, on the basis of the recovery plan. The Prosecutor of Economic Crime with his papers commissioned some experts. Mr Anastassopoulos estimates that the price of 576 million is at least two and a half times lower. Of course, in these cases, the financing of the markets is made by investors through bank loans from domestic banks, which, in other words, do not have to give small and medium-sized enterprises a chance to take a breath and lead them, because of non-recurring liquidity, to closure. For there, however, there is money. There are illegal and charitable rights in companies for compensation. We could say too much. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today in our country - we all know it - has a pan-European, not to say a global perspective. The plan is fully implemented. In the next few years - and SYRIZA plays this role - the Left, as I have said before, will not be able to raise a head. The false right, all right, is doing her work properly, along with some other moments here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u274	Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u275	I'll be done. Thank you, Mr President. The gigantoma of our Greek nationalists will soon see it. It's not as electoral as a pretext in society. We believe that our work is already a success. 'Cause you're saying the snake's egg is off. It's been outdated long ago, as you say. The question is that it will be done, not only in Greece, and pan-European and globally. And hope is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u276	Following is the Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr George-Dimitrios Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Previously, Mr Panagioulis seems to have felt the need to refer to the Central Association to justify his own political career. And this since he has been moved from time to time into various political spaces and believes that others, who may be his colleagues in the House, will follow the same course. He also made a political design and talked about Delphi's Mathematics. If we represented the Delphi Mansion, we would also have a picture of the country's course, we would be able to predict developments and consequences. If we had divine abilities, then yes, we could govern the country as well, ladies and gentlemen. But what is the only reality is that the Centroon Union, when it entered the House, was placed. It has been placed in the purely centred area and we have all said that we are not interested in powers. In fact, a characteristic expression that I use, like Leventis, is that we don't care about ministries and spoils. We have made that clear. In an attempt that has been taking place recently to show the Central Association that it can possibly be a partner of the SYRIZA and ANEL party, we have said something that no one really meets in the political speech. It's very heavy, but I'll repeat it today. Anyone who thinks we will work together and if we work with a government, and indeed the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, do not vote for us. We are not asking for the vote of those who are likely to give up the party's central course and look for positions elsewhere. I don't want to say any more. It seems Mr. Panagioulis is not following us in our course, so he thought we were following his own path. In any case, it did not have the decency to remain and to listen to our position. I justified him after following his speech, which I must say he did not help me understand the political issues he has tried to raise. Please forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, for this parentheses. I will now come to the issues of today's ratification of a convention which is serious, has afflicted Greek public opinion, the scientific world, the movements and political parties, and today they hear conflicting views. So we will also be submitting our view, which is from now on, since you allow me to make a very brief regression. When the summer holidays came again as urgent regulation and the concession of the shares of the Port Authority to the Chinese 'COSCO', I had spoken again in the capacity of Parliamentary Representative and had supported this convention in view of its completeness and purpose. I remember saying that Piraeus will be strengthened, it will be an entry gate for Asia to Europe. In fact, I wished that it would also be a two-way, reverse route and that Europe and Asia would be connected through the port of Piraeus. Because it is not only the imports of Chinese or Asian products, but the trade routes must also be opened so that containers returning the cargo ships and the roads they will carry from Europe. Our country is obviously seeking to make a road node linking North and South Europe and beyond the export of European products and especially Greeks, because we need exports. By comparing the then contract for the transfer of shares to 'COSCO' with the current contract for the transfer of shares in 'ELLENIKI SA', I have to make an initial observation. The Greek contract presents an obsolete model of development. Of course, we will vote for it, as Mr Saridis has said and as we have decided, so as not to make Greece unreliable in the international area. Because if we start to say that these privatizations are not going to take place, you understand that it is a stab in the soul and body of the country, because then they will not actually be able to incur investments. And we want growth. However, it is counterproductive and obsolete in its own development model. Why is it obsolete, ladies and gentlemen? As far as I am concerned - personality, I do not want to expand - it is obsolete because it is clearly standing in the construction sector. What's going to happen there? They will become buildings, they will become stores, they will become a casino and they will therefore be created a new housing site on the beach. It can be useful in a timely manner, it can be useful temporarily, in the sense that some people will work at the construction stage, may also incur some money into the Greek public funds, but therefore we do not have the possibility to convince ourselves of the need for development. I have told the Chamber that it would be very advisable for the Greek Government and all the Greek political forces to work in another necessary direction. It was named Riviera, I said before, Cote d'Azur, we say the beach of Attica, we say a lot of things in the name, but I have proposed - and if you go back to the Minutes you will remember it - a part of the coastline section of a thousand, two thousand, three thousand acres to become Monaco, but not in the sense of the casino Monaco. Remember that the casino was created by the Sea Lutres Company at that time, and Onassis took advantage of this company for a long time - no matter what, they are outdated events. We can obtain approval with European law and agree to become a seat for companies, large multinational companies. Ireland has this - the Americans are trying a little bit today, not the European Union, to create a problem - Luxembourg has it. Let us remember President Yunker how he exceeded it when he attracted small Luxembourg to large multinational companies with special tax arrangements. There they hold a high standard of living for both the inhabitants and the health of their countries. We have therefore proposed that this way be sought so that the companies which will be located in a part of the region do not have commercial or industrial activities. Being the tax seats and a low percentage of their global turnover to be a tax revenue for Greece. Today, instead of making such efforts, we're going backwards, we're going backwards. We see historical Greek companies moving their homes - metallurgical, I will not call it, it is known to everyone - in Belgium, Luxembourg, in the Netherlands. The smaller ones have all arrived in Bulgaria. Bank accounts are also connected with Bulgarian banks and we have payments via cards directly transferring payments to Bulgaria. I would remind you that at the border with Bulgaria the largest Greek bank has many branches serving these activities. Are these development models? The development model, however, as the contract with the Greek is not. Why? He will now give five to ten thousand people in the construction sector. There's no doubt about it. It'll be a high-level area. I have not heard that from anyone today, from SYRIZA or from New Democracy. It will be a high economic income, because it will necessarily be expensive to sell or rent houses, shops, products. You can understand that another dimension will be given to the coastal sector and possible exclusions will be created to the average Athenian area, to the average inhabitants of the Lefkanopedio, who will either not have the economic potential to reach or will not be able to reach it. And what I say is consistently, because where high-income activities are created, there are automatically safety issues, automatically at the door is security, automatically made face control. Are we counting on these, ladies and gentlemen, or are we saying that because the contract will give the first signature 300 million and the rest in two years, do we think we will resolve the problem? I saw something else that bothered me. I have to say what I saw that bothered me. It arrived in my box, like all Members, a luxurious seated by the allegedly purchased company, which had an economic report, had a letter - I overlook it, I do not read it - and a report by IOBE. Should I comment on it? I have the ability to comment on financial data, a fraud report if you want, and I take responsibility. Take note of something, we have been convinced - and it was published in newspapers, there have been many differences in the press, which has raised this very much - for seventy-five thousand jobs, he says, at the end of the operating period. But whoever read it and wanted to find out what he saw? He saw that they would not exceed twenty thousand to the end of the period of employment in the region. And underneath they add ninety thousand - those who have it with them, please see it - and they say that we will also have ninety thousand additional jobs in 2041, where the seventy-five thousand come from the impact of the demand factors and the fifteen thousand from the impact of the supply factors. Somewhere else these people will be. He can't be there. Besides that they won't fit in the way the arrangement is. It'll be somewhere else. And the concept, as the report attempts to give it on what demand factors and supply factors are is incomprehensible. I'll say something else, because time is pushing. The Greek is the jewel. It could improve this convention very much. And why could it be improved? They're completely unclear and the odds. I will not stand up to the price of 915 million is high or low. In these circumstances it may be reasonable after all the suffering suffered by the contract. How will returns be ensured? I did not find it possible anywhere to interpret the chapter of the contract, which says: 'We guarantee a minimum of 15% in favour of the new owner of the company and we will pay 30% of the additional profits to the Greek State'. That's right. Well, listen, gentlemen, let's get this over with. Is there a company in the world in such sizes that it has a profit of at least 15%? If we look for the same contract, we will see that that 30% that is granted in full ownership to the new owner is the one that will give the bank guarantees to the mortgages so that it can be financed. So we have a huge burden of funding. These 5 or 15 billion to be invested will all be loan products guaranteeing the same value of construction and land. So these are long-term loans, they are high-rate loans. The day before yesterday, you voted in Parliament and we voted - I objected, of course - that extra-bank rates should be free, that we should not even have a 5.3% limitation, which means that the bonds issued in these cases may ask for the guarantees of 9%, 10%, 12% of an annual interest rate. How will they be dealt with? Is there going to be profits? Let me remind you of something. The company "MARINOPOULOS" collapsed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Carras, don't expand on other issues. Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u279	I shall conclude, Mr President, it is relevant. Allow me. Why do I say they're related? MARINOPOULOS S.A. collapsed because it had no profits. SKLAVENITS S.A. and AV KOSILOPOULOS S.A., if we look at the balance sheets, they are healthy with a profit of 1.5% and 2% within billions. So how do we get to 15%? We are either leveraging balance sheets or intervening so that it does not exist. I am afraid, therefore, that the so-called strong negotiation, beyond its positive points, should continue, that the real returns for the Greek people should be obtained, that the possibility of access should not be made to an area of high incomes and exclusions, and that is why I have expressed and tabled my concerns. I am, of course, following the view that it should be voted on so that in the future the privatizations will not be shaken, but I would hope not to become a prophet of evil or to become a master of the Delphi dictator, as Mr Panagulis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing the colleagues of the Staff Regulations and the whole of the Opposition. I will tell you that one thing you have not understood: we are proud of our struggles and of all the resistance to the Greek agreement that you have brought, a contract that was against the interests of both the region and the Greek people, because today the contract that we are bringing - and it is clear - is a contract that has substantial differences on both technical and economic terms, as I will say next. When the opposition told us "complete as -" we negotiated scientifically, in cooperation with the National Technical University, in order to achieve significant and substantial changes in the contract, which we claimed and achieved for the benefit of society, for the benefit of the citizens and the public, positive changes that are in agreement with the majority of the institutions. This was also demonstrated by the bodies that were invited to the committee. So we challenged it, and we succeeded. We managed to increase the metropolitan park and public public spaces. It is no longer an internal courtyard of investment, but a real park, the largest of Europe, two thousand acres of green and recreational spaces, which will be the first stage in the completion of the investment and, above all, it will be open to all citizens. No one can forbid anyone from getting into this park. In addition, our agreement provides that the individual will also have the obligation to maintain these sites, thereby putting responsibilities and conditions to the investor and not unclear as it was in the previous contract. We have challenged and succeeded in extending the direct access of the park to and from the neighbouring municipalities, particularly to and from the coastal zone. We have challenged and achieved the enlargement of the free front of the coastal zone. Free access to the whole coast has been ensured and at least 1/3 is maintained without any commercial and recreational uses, i.e. at least one kilometre open, absolutely irresistible beach front to all, facilitating the exits of the park to the sea and ensuring its continuity. One more thing. Let's go to the finances, too. The price of the investment increased from four and a half billion to seven billion. Of course, the company's brochure speaks of eight billion - welcome - with an increase of one and a half billion of the cost of joint projects. At this point I would like to call on the Vice-Presidents to do a mere mathematical act to understand something. The ninety-five million, the price for the Greek, we said and still say it's too low. We're not changing our position. This price, however, is solely your responsibility and you must apologise to the Greek people because it is so low instead of looking against those who had gladly said that it should not be sold at this price. From there on, though, what did we do? We have been able to add additional one and a half billion to public investment in order to ensure that exploitation does not find the public and the people retarded. Because I have heard Mr Teddy say that if he can, if the investor wants to do one and a half billion, sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, you will bring us the report from the General Accounting Office of the State and you are beating it to us. Point 2 of the amending contract states that the buyer, in addition to the obligations under the contract, undertakes to implement specific projects and infrastructures of public interest in an estimated budget of EUR 1.5 billion. Isn't that true? What does the General Accounting Office say? Are you questioning it? To figure out what we're talking about. So stop the specula and explain to us the responsibilities for your then choices for the benefit of private investors who brought public investors into a disadvantaged position, having lost such an area without any benefit. We've done more. The implementation time has been reduced, at least 80%, as we have heard, from 15 to 12 years ago. The cost of relocation of public bodies, which exist in the area, was estimated in 2013 to EUR 124 million. We have managed to reduce through consultation with the investor this cost by keeping important public bodies in the area and ensuring their smooth operation. Really, I didn't hear that from anyone in the counterpopulation, and I wonder why. However, what is more open to the differences in the contract at the time with the one I am proud to say is that you had contractually pledged the investor to pay 32.79% on the first day of the transfer of shares. However, the payment would continue from the third year and with very small instalments. What did we do? And testify 32.79% on the first day, but within two years it has paid 51%, thus reducing the repayment time to six years. Didn't you really need that money or did you say to make it easy for the privateer? We have also made sure that the additional EUR 1.5 billion is in line with the implementation of the investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the group of lies you have organised inside and outside the House can say what it wants, but the truth is one: you have sold out and we are exploiting. You gave public property to friends while we strive to protect the public interest. In other words, even on your stadium, in the stadiums, we're playing you much better. Because for you the Greek was a treat for your friends, and for us it is a heavy obligation under the agreement, but we apply it in the public interest, our obligation to the citizens of the region and the laws of the country. No more misunderstandings, therefore, about the Greek of those who offered it "chickenness". No more paradoxes than those who suppressed every mass struggle of the people in the region and those who plunged the country into the mortuary of monuments, plundering public wealth and charging the country with sinful concessions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have claimed and succeeded. We will continue to claim for the benefit of society and will do so for a long time yet. Don't start warming up your machinery for elections. You'll burn in the heat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Nektario Santorinio. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Konstantinos Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, one hears Mr Theocharis as another Giannis Ayiannis speaking about the society he suffers. If nothing else is a joke. I suspect that he would have spent all his thoughts as Vice-President of the LEHMAN BROTHERS all these years or as head of the "SAPIS PROMOTION" or at the same time as he was Secretary-General of Public Revenue and sent tax notes for the holding of eighty thousand taxpayers who owed tax for more than 5,000 euros and another two million trillion taxpayers owed 3,000 to the tax office and called on tax managers to carry out personal retention. I think that if anything else we need to be a little more crowded and modesty does not harm Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the whole concept of counterpopulation is based on one basis: the government's announcements, what you said two years ago, what you were electorally saying in the January 2015 elections. I think our political announcements and planning with the Thessaloniki programme had political preconditions. The conditions were specific: a change in the policy of austerity, fiscal relaxation, social policy. All this required a very basic condition: cooperation with Europe. That is why half the resources of the Thessaloniki Programme were resources from the European Union, from the Financial Stability Fund and from other European programmes. Clearly, then, when there was no European cooperation, when we faced a hard European line, and when the aim of this line was left-handed parentheses, subjection, political deadlock, blackmail and Grexit, this agenda changed. We were driven through the negative correlations and by this tough political line in a painful compromise, a programme since the summer of 2015 and at the same time in the 2016 elections. So this political period is over. You cannot continue with the alphabet and the mathematics and the books of the primary school to give all the Greeks. We're in another political period. After the 2016 elections, we are, after all, in another political period. And you must change your account. For us neither our intentions nor the principles of our policy have changed. But the agenda's changed. We should, anyway, change our planning and the conditions of our policy. That's what we did. The sterile criticism of our announcements - what SYRIZA said, what Tsipras said at the time - is not the basic one. The main thing is to judge ourselves in our relationship of responsibility towards reality. We also have two obligations here: firstly, what we and our creditors have to implement, because creditors also have obligations in this history, such as debt and other issues. The second obligation is what we want to do. In these two, we're fighting. Hours-hours I wonder with some positions of counterpopulation. I have heard Mr Maniotis speak with a political manicism, 'are you proud?' 'You are ashamed of this agreement'. We're neither proud nor ashamed. We are very responsible for administering a significant economic PPP, and we have to have a key axis in this renegotiation phase: public interest and social benefit. Nothing else, and that's what we did. I think too many colleagues before analysing all the positive aspects of this story - I do not want to refer to it any more - whether financially or self-governmently or socially or environmentally with a bigger footprint. This is our relationship with reality: to improve what we have inherited, to improve as many terms as we can in fact implement and at the same time manage another investment. Clearly, if we started this negotiation, this investment at first, we would have another perception of the incentives and fixed resources that local government has to receive in an investment of this size. We'd have another perception of less construction. We'd have another perception of a bigger environmental footprint. Clearly, we found a ready, buttoned by 2014 and we fought with the closure of it to give our best. I think the signs are quite important, without that mean that someone is proud or ashamed of this deal. The second thing I want to say is that the speech by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, did so in committee, the same mistake he made here - to speak with a terrible slump around the private economy. "Have the private economy. Ideologically, we have won. We have always been in favour of privatisation." I think and want to advise you that it is a very bad time to speak so easily about the private economy. The private economy, your world, this ideological concept of yours, is the one that led to irregular and illegal diplomas in private education. It's your private economy that made the parties to the medicine and CDC. It was this private economy that created these contracts and public works contracts which only a renegotiation of almost one billion entered the state funds and was saved. It is your private economy that led a banking system to need 65 billion euros to survive. And growth and investment and privatisation and work are not empty. He's got a badge. And you must give an aggressive determination. Third-world development? Colonial development? African-type development? Fair growth? Green development? In everything, there's a sign. The word in itself means nothing. You must therefore give your opinion on this. The "bug" jobs - growth - investment means nothing if you don't give a spot anyway. For us, above all, growth means a fair wage - within all the others that has to have a growth - wage which responds to the modern needs of workers, a stable working environment and workers' working rights. The second is disobedience to everything in public. And I am very impressed that the inability to create a modern and efficient public sector makes you deeply hostile and have made theory and ideal of the destruction of the public sector, have an incredible perception of the deterioration of the public structure. I really want to ask: What have you been doing for this public sector all these years? Forty years of postmulsion and you managed an ASP and a JEP. These two were your major deep-seated branches in public administration, nothing else, when in other countries public administration has been trying for many years. We were not followers of the North Korean model, nor are we followers of the barbaricity of neoliberalism. This is your world. Your world is the rating houses, the markets that bring up and down governments, which destroy democracies, which abolish rights, which rape the planet and natural resources, which open up the lid of the poor and rich, which private wealth is ten times as much as the sum of the wealth of the nation states. This is your conception and your world. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But the government always comes to extinguish the fire. The state budget, the social and public area is the one that kept the financial system alive with 65 billion, the one facing the consequences of the social crisis, the one keeping social poverty, unemployment, hunger and social impoverishment. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with a word. The notion that society is above politics is nothing modern. It is deeply anachronistic, because politics is above the economy, because redistribution of wealth must give the economy its mark. In this sense, therefore, I think you are political expressions of every anachronistic and retardative in this century. You express the old, the most retarded political thought in the modern world of the 21st century. Your political vision really sucks. It overthrows every social and labour acquis that was conquered in the previous century. You don't express anything new. Fear the new one. Twice you have had the opportunity, then, to give young people the right to vote in 1981 from twenty-one to eighteen years and this year, from eighteen to seventeen years. These children who gave their battle to the Polytechnic School, eighteen and nineteen, after eight years, in 1981, did not even dare to give them the right to vote. It's what shows you belong to the old and not the new.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u284	Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u285	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think it is very right that you should trust your political expression to Mr Georgiadis. It's your most authentic, authentic expression. Keep going like this, you'll do very well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u286	Mr Dimitris Dimitriadis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, today's ratification of the Greek Convention is one of the first nine prerequisites for the last summer's agreement. It is a fact with a particular political burden and not unfairly, of course, as it is at the top of a series of blackmails of the GOI, what is called "investment through privatisations" on the political agenda of the old system. Its part is the Greek part of a total of 50 billion euros from a planned sale, divestment - in essence - of the public property, as a direct repayment to the debt, a part which is in turn a project, is part of a strategic plan for the lenders, which they adopted as if their political friends here were theirs. This project involves over-exploitation of common resources and public goods, maximisation of capital profitability, internal devaluation and reduction of the rights of the world of work, which was and is clearly against our own, which is about supporting labour rights, defending common resources and public goods as a condition for fair growth. In this part also comes under the current bill and the application and guarantee of the rules of law in the market. The conflict between these competitive projects is both strong and lasting and has a great historical depth. We'll always find her in front of us. We have never given up on our political tradition and identity. Proof of this that we crashed and crashed hard. The compromise reached in the summer is a result of a conflict. It is not the product of a deliberate compromise. His data have shifted very much in favour of the country's interests. Let us keep a figure, the 50 billion divestment of public property, which should continue until now, always in terms of debt and creditors and bring an even greater dividend of a piece of public property and should be added to the existing one, which is about 1/4 its impairment. In this scenario, then, we put a stop. Given that the state has continued and taken as a second pretext the signing of the agreement, we agreed on this agreement to complete the nineteen already signed conventions, but to define strictly and nominally what they are. We did it and the level of these is only 6.2 billion out of the 50 billion of the total divestment. A number of things were provided for in this contract. Indeed, the 914 million price that it predicted is small. There was nothing foresaw and for no social or other investment. The investment was only 4.5 billion and in a depth of 15 years, the way of investing would be a gradual development of real estate, of sale, and then of expansion and anticipated construction for three thousand six hundred acres, without special conditions, and here, not even noticeable, without topography. The fact that in such a large agreement there was not even a topographic description of the squares, the spaces, the streams, the archaeological sites, all of which must be identified, shows your prelude, ladies and gentlemen of the old regime, to agree on the bar and dormant, just to dive. What have we changed, and if we have changed something with our intervention: we have made it clear from the outset in our minds - and we have done so - that we have not sought a numerical increase in the price, because this is simply going to debt and we are our priorities, and they are priorities for the development of the economy. We have chosen to agree on investments that bring greater added value to society, to lay market rules, to help the market, to ultimately help public finances. Thus, a further 1.5 billion extra investment is being added mainly in social and environmental fields, which - and here too - was at our original target. I am talking about 2013 and 2014. Investments in green, pedestrian, tram and metro were included in the plan. It is also planned to open the beach to the public by one kilometre. The construction of three thousand six hundred acres fell to two thousand seven hundred acres, and so we have about a green ratio with a structured space of 50-50, which was also in our original pursuits. Agios Cosmas is part of the entire project. Work starts on green, first and foremost, green, which is high green, is not grass, in all the first five years. A green space is created, a fund, a three hundred acres land bank, where the rest of Attica can be mentioned. A waste management area with the participation of the investor is planned by 50%. The investment time is falling from fifteen to twelve years, with a billion front in the first five years and the public park of the two thousand four hundred acres that are created is maintained by the investor. We are therefore satisfied with the result we have achieved in the original contract. We have achieved major changes, always in favour of social interests, and we have put an important positive mark on the finalisation of the project. We are guaranteeing its proper and rapid exploitation, seeing its important contribution to economic development. We know that there is a second cycle, which will concern us, and that is where we will again be concerned about how certain things are understood, particularly building and the environment. We know that we are creating - and we want it - under conditions of state continuity, but making the agreed areas. We are creating space for new and more advantageous investments in the prospect of making use of public property alone. Indeed, this contract is not our development model. It's a deal result. It has much more data in favour of society and public interest, but on the basis of our own intervention. It now has serious elements of our own perspective. It is a door open to the prospect of fair growth and the definitive overthrow of the neoliberal model of exploiting public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Demetriades. Mr Christos Bukokouros, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Even when we want to vote for the same things with the SYRIZA Government, they do not let us sanctify and force us to express our deep criticism, because it cannot pass unnoticed the fact that SYRIZA colleagues are pulling our fingers to our side by listing the sufferings it has accumulated to the Greek people, but also to all the peoples, the private economy. They probably do not want to remember what suffering has brought to many other peoples for many other decades the centrally planned economy and what suffering they are suffering today with other peoples, Latin America and Caracas in Venezuela, models that they believed and were extinguished until first. Comparisons are catalytic, ladies and gentlemen, so what do you want them for? We understand your psychological situation to drag you here today, literally, by the lenders, in order to vote for things that you accused of, which you were struggling for, which you were fighting for. We fully understand you, but reality is reality. And we are discussing here today a bill on the exploitation of the Greek. And what are the objections to those who disagree, but also to many SYRIZA Members, such as the MPs in this particular constituency, where intervention is taking place? They are objections to the management of the public space. Of course, the Left can believe that the public space can remain barren, untreated, immortal to the social community. We are always in favour of using existing legal and environmental frameworks. What are the remaining objections to those who disagree, but also to SYRIZA Members? It is environmental degradation, protection of archaeological sites and preserved buildings. But these are the comparative advantages of our country. These are what each investor sells in a tourist investment. Is it possible to destroy them? And, of course, the state must set the terms and rules. Nobody says otherwise. But not to say that tourist investments want to destroy the natural environment, since that is their comparative advantage. And what do those who object? That the adjacent municipalities and border regions will be devastated. Do we have an example of such tourist investment in our country, not such size but similar? Of course we do. We have the tourist investment in the 'Costa Navarino'. Has the Messiah devastated with this big tourist investment? On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen. Since the construction of this particular investment in Messinia we have increased passenger traffic at Kalamata airport by 370%. Kalamata became an important tourist destination. From the airport's passengers, only 13.5% stays in 'Costa Navarino', the remaining 86.5% stays in the small and medium-sized hotels of Messina, giving huge tourist push. For every 1 euro spent in the 'Costa Navarino' investment, 1.65 is spent in the local economy. The overall impact from the start of the construction of this unit on the economy and especially on the local economy is EUR 1 billion. That shows the way. It does not show economic depopulation of neighbouring areas. It shows the development of neighbouring regions, because today there are no tourist destinations without airports, and there are no developed airports without significant tourist units. This is global practice. What can we do? Are we going to deal with SYRIZA's ideas? I present for the Minutes of the House an in-depth report by journalist Stathi Kosunis from the newspaper "Kathimerini" on July 31st. It includes all the elements, to see the effect of a major tourist investment in a particular area. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Bukoros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, I am not coming, Minister of Finance, if you are in the Chamber - today when the largest private investment in the country is being discussed - should not be missing by the Minister of Finance, but I do not see him in the Chamber, in any case, hope that they will be carried. I am not, of course, an MEP in Athens, to focus on the investment of the Greek, the Messinia, of course, but it is an indicative example. There are still fifteen so-called "multiple" tourist investments still pending in the country and the bureaucracy of the Greek government along with the ideas of the current government are delaying them, increasing the country's disinvestment climate, keeping unemployment at the highest levels and leading our young people abroad. Why this idea? Only two of the fifteen major investment projects, all together totalling EUR 3 billion, yet another Greek, have already been approved. The others are stalling because of the government's strangles. There were delays with previous governments, but it started. Something's happened. Started the 'Costa Navarino'. Magnesia is one of the fifteen investments. It is about the tourist investment in the islands of Magnesia. And while investors are interested, the Greek State refuses to rule on the property status of this region, this particular area. While the relevant governmental office has come and finds that the State there has no property, it refuses to clarify the property regime, delaying investment. Magnesia Law is affected by high unemployment. The unemployment recorded is almost 35%. Such an investment, which is a small Greek for our region, will give tourist development, will boost the local economy. The example of 'Costa Navarino' should be a guide not only to the government but to the entire political world of the country, both to the adventures of investment and to the benefits now distributed to the local economy. So it is hoped that the local society of Magnesia will also be informed whether this large tourist investment will take place. A private investment, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, which will give added value to the largest public infrastructure in the Magnesia prefecture. Who's that? It's the political airport. The local political airport, which is currently in operation, because there are no major tourist units. What's the follow-up? Along with the large tourist unit and the development of the airport, the small and medium-sized tourist units in our region will also be able to close some airfields in order to rekindle the movement in Magnesia, Thessaly and throughout central Greece. The services of the Ministry of Finance, two years now, are refusing to clear up the property regime in this region, delaying the investment. I think we do not, Minister, have the luxury to time and wait. There are candidate investors for such development projects, and we really must all realise that the anemic body of the Greek economy can only be raised by private investment. I hope that the Minister of Finance and all the co-competent ministries - tourism, agricultural development - will be able to clarify the case of citizens and the economy and, by extension, society and the Magnesia Prefecture. Minister, there is not only the Greek of Athens. There are many "Greek" and we will be entitled to hope both as an economy and as a society, that all will, of course, be completed in the legal framework, of course, with respect for the environment. That's what we all agree on. But what we can't get off the hook. We don't have that luxury anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr George Diaras, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to reply to a question raised by Mr Georgiadis to me personally, representing the Green Ecoologists in the House, working with SYRIZA. And I'll answer as an economist. After speaking against the investment in the past and yesterday in my speech I said that the agreement is not in the chosen sustainability strategy, what will be my position? And it came to the conclusion that I would vote for the chair, that is, for the Members' privileges. Because the report was personal, I inform you, Mr Georgiades, that I have denied most of the Members' privileges, both the car and the two police officers. And it becomes an economy from me to the Greek public 60,000 a year. So I don't think I'm sitting here for the privileges. Have you done the same? Also, from my parliamentary recompense, and I and SYRIZA Members are giving. 50% of me give the Ecologists and SYRIZA. So I'm not sitting here about privileges and money. Here I support ideas. I entered politics as a Member of the European Parliament at a great age. All my life I've been serving the movements, the Left of other positions. And together we were on the regional council, where I strived not to cross the environmental conditions of this convention. The majority of you and others, of course, went through a contract which we would not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u292	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u293	But now the contract is signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u294	Why don't you kick it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Georgiadis, you said you were a liberal and not a neoliberal. We know that trick. Of course, many politicians do not accept designations that have a negative signal to the public. We remember the older ones that dictator Papadopoulos used to talk about democracy when they were tortured by democrats in security, the RS and when he was commanded in this way, by forced laws. So saying that I am neoliberal or not as a party does not say anything. The reality is that the New Democracy policy in practice is political in line with big capital, with large multinational companies, with neoliberal globalisation, which destroys small and medium-sized enterprises, impoverishes citizens and destroys the planet. The old right was different from today. That right was centred on private property and householders as the centre of politics. Today the Right is the Right of the multinationals that scan the planet, destroy small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large Greek, national-scale businesses. Our difference, therefore, with the right-wing plan, which is moving within the framework of neoliberalism, namely total market freedom, which forms conditions for the concentration of wealth to very few, is a fundamental difference. It is our opposition to the dominant logic that the driving force for the economy is profit and inextricably competition. This policy, driven by speculation, also organizes production in such a way that it wastes natural resources and destroys the environment and the planet. The New Democracy and the European Right Party prove it in practice. They voted in favour of the European Parliament promoting transatlantic agreements between the European Union and Canada, so-called TTIP and CETA. These agreements are neoliberalism in practice. The priorities of ecological policy are quite different from those of the New Democracy and social democracy. Our choice is a fair and sustainable economy that can withstand any international crises and does not collapse, which will ensure the country's food self-sufficiency in the event of disturbances and does not depend on imports and will ensure all the sustainability features, which are decentralised, development of local economies and balanced development of all sectors of the economy. We put the special weight on agricultural production for food self-sufficiency in the country and surplus external trade in agricultural products. We believe in a different model of production and consumption, where the word sustainability will take place every day and in every sector. Let us now come to the issue of the Greek Convention. What did the Samara government sign? The sale of the land with the commercial segment, and if we take into account the large structural factor and other characteristics, the permitted uses, even less than the current commercial value. The whole plan was on investors' measures. With the negotiation of the current government, the conditions have improved very much. For example, I mention the metropolitan park, which will be uniform and open to citizens and which will have an area of 51% of the total area. There will also be an increase in the front of the coastal zone, a free exit of the metropolitan park to the sea and a free coast length of one kilometre. Finally, there are three hundred acres for public spaces and public use, such as schools, children's stations, cultural sites, etc. Despite the improvements made to the convention with the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT', as I pointed out yesterday in committee, this agreement would not be a draft of political ecology. But the state's consistency requires the successor situation to continue with the commitments made. So the public works that had been stopped, so that we do not have a refund to the European Union and do not have the works incomplete. We have, however, improved the position of the public interest, renegotiating with the companies and gaining a great financial advantage for the Greek State. The same was done with the Greek convention. There was a commitment, the sale had been made by New Democracy and PASOK, and it was within the prerequisites of the memorandum, which, in order not to collapse, we in this government accepted. These necessary, perhaps painful compromises, do not mean the adoption of a neoliberal policy following a New Democracy and a PASOK. We want a policy with the fewest losses, a policy of developing economic independence, a policy of recovering the dignity of the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u297	For what, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u298	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u299	What's the personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u300	You'll give me the floor for a minute, to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u301	To hear the explanation because it's personal and then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u302	My colleague has asked me whether I have given up my parliamentary privileges, such as him, and whether I have done the same with him for the chair. It is a very personal matter and I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u303	Sure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u304	Mr Colleague, I have not given up my parliamentary privileges. But I have done something else that makes us very different. When my party at the time brought me something that I disagreed with, I resigned not only from a Member but also from a Minister and went to my house and sold my books. You, my dear, have come and told us a secret about how ideologist you are and how much you gave the police officers and the other privileges and how much the Syrian MPs give them the parliamentary compensation. We both know that parliamentarians have far greater privileges than compensation for police officers. They have power and that is a much greater privilege for anyone who understands. So, dear fellow Member, what did you tell us? That an entire life you've been fighting the Greek, that on the regional council we were together, you've been up on the benches and you're saying that this crime against Attica must not go through and you're coming here today as a good boy and you're voting for the crime? For the improvements you have said I will not tell you, I will answer my dentistry to Mr. Chakaloto. Because the British universities are good, but they didn't teach you well. Improvements do not exist. These are Halima's fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u306	So, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in Parliament on the ratification of the Greek Convention is turning into a lively ideological debate on public and private entrepreneurship, on whether private investment can be found that respects the environment, archaeological monuments, culture, whether we are taught from what experience so far has been, from what the organisation of State and private sector interventions has been in terms of social benefit. We all continue to be the prerequisites for a human emancipation society, for the socialism of the 21st century with democracy, freedom and quality of life we have a real problem. To explain whether we were taught by the experience of implementing the regimes of adequate socialism for the dreams we have had, whether we are taught by the caging of social democracy in the management of capitalism of the State that we have received, whether we can defend a new perception of the path towards social transformation, which respects all these lessons we have learned. I think that in the contract we want to pass, we are giving proof that we are taught what the reality is, what we signed last summer, what the prerequisites are, what we wanted to do, what differences this contract has from what the New Democracy has attempted and how our understanding of entrepreneurship differs from theirs. Look at you, too. Do not swear for every entrepreneurship, Mr. Georgiades. Don't swear. If the state proves in many areas that it cannot be a reliable investor, and if there are areas of the private sector's need to intervene, the notion of healthy entrepreneurship by us has been completely assimilated, because what we are putting into the new NSRF and the new development law and the investments we bring through the European Investment Fund are issues that are directed at healthy entrepreneurship. May I remind you a little of what entrepreneurship was in the same area as the Marinopoulos family? As to whether there were any other businessmen with healthy entrepreneurship in the same sector, it turns out that we need to look more closely at this data. We have to check how private investors' assets have become assets and at the same time they are major. How could ‘SIEMENS’ in a State like Germany with the uncontrolled management of its own administration make such agreements with the public sector of many states and interfere in the private sector, but be a morbid entrepreneurship? So do we draw conclusions from this on the way from now on? I think we're getting out. We want to tell you that what we are doing in the future leads us to reconstruct a country that was taken from the SYRIZA - ANLE Government in a situation with a million three hundred and eighty thousand unemployed, with over two hundred thousand private companies closing down, with over eight hundred thousand private sector unemployed and unemployed, with the fact that they are in'red' many entrepreneurs, who can prove that they have healthy entrepreneurship. But we do not hear you take a position on important issues that are also about the second assessment, on issues that put the Golden Boys of lenders with their neoliberal obsessions. That is where we need to see what we are doing, in order to support healthy businesses that, in fact, have debts, which, in fact, we need to make it easier, which, in fact, we need to see how all of this entrepreneurship can bring about work, employment and the proper development of the country. That's right, and you and I are saying we want growth. We stress the concepts of fair, sustainable, balanced, rapid, growth that can lead Greece to overcome all these issues that have led it to the current situation. But we expect you to put yourself on a few major issues too. Biden announced that he wanted a united Europe to facilitate Greece against the overcompensation he had. You who supported Samaras and Venizelos saying in this Chamber that there is no need to write off debt, that debt is sustainable, do you draw conclusions on what you need to do from now on? You are right to say that we need to have 2% of the primary surplus in 2018, when you signed an agreement for 4.5% each year. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Do you draw conclusions on what we need to claim the whole political system, which wants a different course for Greece to really take the next day? I therefore believe that this debate has given us many opportunities to see whether the Right or the Left can have the ideological hegemony. Very badly you say that in the last forty years the Left had the ideological hegemony in Greece, when Karamanlis ruled, Andreas Papandreou. So, what are you telling us? Are you telling us that the ideas of the Left became a government project by Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou and by the governments that succeeded her? The ideas on the left are now to lead to the country's overall reconstruction and to the conditions of social transformation. These are our dreams, these are also through the new contract that we are doing for the Greek and which can prove to the citizens of the whole region and the Greeks who want to, that they can visit the entire phantom delta that they will have a proper access, they will enjoy the beautiful area and they will not be parables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u307	Thank you. Mr Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, with the Greek convention we have the top political assumption of the election lies. I was wondering what of all of it first? Mr. Tsipras who protested that the Greek is not sold? Mrs Durou, who said: 'Never before my corpse such a pharaonic project'? Mr. Spirtzi, who called the prosecutor, why is the value of the Greek supposed to be 3 billion on the basis of a non-existent study of the TEI that no one has, see but have seen its main conclusions and summary? What is this now coming to us today? These have their own meaning, if we would speak in a normal country, because logically in a normal country when a large parliamentary majority is adopted, a large 8 billion-dollar convention, should reasonably be the country's political world to send a message of unity to a leading investment initiative, but unfortunately we are not a normal country. We are a country of constant poverty, of recession, of allowances, of cashiers, of premiums in supermarkets. We are Mrs Fotio's country, which does not meet pensioners, who have been cut off on its way. We are the country where Mr Katrugalos says that he has not cut pensions of Greek pensioners, despite the fact that their pockets are 25% to 30% lighter than the retentions and all the others that Mr Katrugalos and his government have imposed. This is also the case, a leading investment initiative that could - and should - in a comfort to be discussed comes under the urgency procedure. Obviously because you're probably obliged to do something because of the troika, but you're embarrassed. So you are going to sign a contract, but you are ashamed, first of all, to discuss it with the mayors of the neighbouring municipalities, you are ashamed to discuss it with the mayors of the Mediterranean region, and of course you are ashamed to discuss it with your Members, because in other cases it would not be ten and all the SYRIZA Members who would make a position on a matter of 8 billion euros, but it would be the entire parliamentary group. So we are now and indirectly coming the government and top ministers are signing a convention, which, instead of being a symbolic resumption of the country's development process, is something they want the government to put it under the carpet. All of this, too, is of their own importance, because unfortunately SYRIZA has wiped out the largest intangible capital that the Left has gained from the civil war and then, the chapter of moral advantage. We are now in a situation where all these so-called left comrades cannot look at themselves in the historical mirror because they see another person's face, they see a Janus. SYRIZA, unfortunately, lost what the Greek citizens said: "It's okay, let's try them. 50% will do what they promise us, and that will only be enough." But come on, that neither 50% nor under zero has been implemented. Now what we are talking about, because that also matters to him. We are talking about a huge investment of six thousand acres, of the 8 billion euros, of the fifty-kilometre bicycles and pedestrians, of the eight tram stations, of the two metro stations, of the internal movement of all those who will stay in this area only by means of public transport, of the upgrading of the entire way of accessing the Attica basin and of all citizens to the beach. We are, of course, talking about a large open park, more than two thousand acres, freely accessible to all citizens. How did we get here? How did we get there? Once the Greek was closed up to 2011, we had a process for which the country's political system as a whole has serious responsibilities. Because the best plot in Europe for at least decades has left it untapped. Here, indeed, we all need to look. I am referring not only to the parties that were in power at the time, but also to the opposition, that is to say the current government, but also to self-government forces. I am referring to all those who, in one way or another, affect decision-making in our country. So let's put back all of what we're guilty of by 2011. In 2011, what happened? There was a first serious move. An international competition has been opened. This competition in 2012 came and dressed with a law, which for the first time put the process of sustainability, sustainability, integrated, multi-faceted, urban development in an area that could under other conditions and conditions be something that they would allegedly use contractors. The strategy for integrated development is the logic of this intervention. Fellowships and colleagues who were also in this House at the time, I would like to remind you what you were telling me when as Minister of the Environment I tabled in August 2014 the new Athens-Attica Regulatory Plan, where for the first time we covered opposite and in possible objections to the Council of State, which is now with your signature to ratify the Greek Parliament. I shall submit Article 11 of the Rules of Procedure for the Minutes. 4277/2014, about what we said by supporting the initiative and voting against it. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We were talking about a metropolitan pole of international radiation, the capital that will become an international hub of economics, environmental and innovations, development initiatives and business center and recreational center. You voted against this. At least an apology you could say. Do we trust you? No, we don't trust you. Because even in things you should have run, you haven't run. For example, last week President Juncker in his speech to the European Parliament revealed the nakedness of the Greek Government. What did Juncker say? He said that within a year of the Juncker package, from Luxembourg to Lithuania, 116 billion euros have been invested in all countries. Hundreds of thousands of loans have been given to small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. A hundred thousand new jobs have been created. Mr. Government ministers, can you tell us, of these figures I mentioned, how many jobs have you made in Greece, how many loans have you given to small and medium-sized enterprises, how many billions have they invested in our country? Zero, zero, zero in all three sizes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Maniotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u310	We do not trust the reasoning of the Minister of Culture, which even in the summer he tried - and we responded only ironically - to convince us that the take-off runway, that the water tower, other things that had not yet been declared a preserver, had to be declared. We've answered something very simple. Because we don't find America, follow, Minister, what happened with the tram train. The tram when it was carved, they found some procedures, but they did not predict that the Ministry of Culture would sketch the legs and proceed smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u312	For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we thank the government for returning to normal reality. I hope this will continue in the next major investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u313	Minister, you have asked for the floor. I don't deprive you of your word. One more Member is simply missing to complete the list of speakers. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative will then be followed by Mr Mandas. Possibly the rapporteurs, some people want to have a three-minute - four-minute intervention in the context of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u314	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u315	Yes, Mr. Georgiadis. Minister, do you now want the floor or do you want to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u316	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u317	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate highlights the vulnerabilities of today's stage in the political life of the country and in particular the consequences of populism, the consequences of deception, the consequences of putting the party interest above the national interest. The current government is the most characteristic symptom of this pathogenesity. I would like to remind you that SYRIZA of the opposition, was commenting on the investment of the Greek with tears and mourning, and now there are celebrations and ravages, because suddenly the investment of the Greek is in the public interest. The total amount of investment is 8 billion, i.e. 2.4% of GDP contribution, 14 billion euros, seventy-five thousand jobs in full investment growth, 1.5 billion infrastructure projects, two thousand metropolitan parks, six hundred acres public areas and green areas and one kilometre of beach free access. This is the investment we are discussing today and in Greece in the crisis, in Greece, in unemployment, in Greece, in underinvestment and in recession. It is unthinkable that while we are discussing the flagship, in essence, of Greek investments with the obvious major economic and social benefits and benefits for local communities, we have lost so much time. Why? Because you were torpedoing this flagship on a systematic basis, and why you canceled every effort to send a credible message abroad that Greece is a country that is investment-friendly, just to hit the previous government. You did not hesitate to hurt the Greek economy and thus make the lives of the Greeks more difficult. Because it is now known that you are being fed by the perpetuation of problems and not by their resolution. This is the most, if you like, cynical version of the practice that distinguishes you. Of course your love for power, now, overcoming the ideologies you allegedly served as opposition, and so it seems that a new delusion has been revealed and a new political commitment is being completed today. I just have to say: since it was intended to make the political transition, did you not make it at least a year and a half earlier, did you not make it so much revenue for the Greek State and had the many unemployed and capable children in Greece before? But you didn't, and you didn't, because you were looking for a fig sheet. So four months ago under the baton spasm of lenders at last signed the famous MOU and now the investment has become a good investment. Because all your retreat even when it makes sense, as in this case, must always be surrounded by a lie. Despite your humiliation, unfortunately, your idealism and inability continue to cause problems in investment and instead of speeding up problems so that the projects can finally begin, you do what you always do. Chronicles and the government continues this criminal absurdity, which is each Minister having his own agenda, the Prime Minister will not interfere and will not put a order in the matter. So again your micro-party and ideological interests are dynamizing any prospect of recovery that investments give to the Greek economy. The worst of all despite your commitments and declarations, you have made Greek an area of soul storage, under conditions that are unacceptable to inhumanity, an outbreak of infection, a health bomb, an outbreak of infringence which threatens, not only the inhabitants of the region, to threaten refugees and immigrants themselves. We therefore call on you, even now, at the very last moment, to deal with this huge problem, which you, unfortunately, are constantly getting worse. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike you, we will not follow this path. We will not oppose the opposition. In this case we have always voted and supported and voted and will support the investment of the Greek. This is a time-consuming attitude, it's a consistent attitude. We did it before, we do it now, and we do it tomorrow, when we're government. Why? Because we do believe that investment - such as this - and private initiative and entrepreneurship are the road, which will lead Greece out of the crisis, which will bring growth. There's no other way! If we do not increase our national wealth, all we will keep doing is what you do. Redistribute poverty and misery. There is no doubt, therefore, that today's investment is a very important development, a positive development in Greece of the crisis. It illuminates the way our country has to go in order to get away from the crisis and to get back on track. We don't intend to do what you do. We want the Greeks back on their feet. We won't put them on trips and then we'll sit there crying when we see them fall. Today I feel that there is something that gives us a substance, a content, a real hope: that our country can make use of its advantages and its skills and go further and that it is possible to follow further investments - small, large - that will strengthen the Greek economy and in practice support the weak and particularly the unemployed young people. That's the reality. Now, of course, if anyone looks around today, in here, he'll think we have a memorial. Because this is the atmosphere in both the government's seat and also at the headquarters of the Coupling. Of course you have a memorial, because you are mourning all these announcements which you have not been able to make. You mourn all the lies that have become absolutely evident. You grieve, because you have made an investment which you may have condemned, because one year after the last elections you have gone according to the 'track me and cry' standards. We said power is sweet. So I must recognize that the only area you are improving is your skills to hold tight on your chairs. You open up new horizons even for the sport of instrumental gymnastics or, if you like, to use religious terms that most of you recently don't like. You give a new content to the concept of the theobachite. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I have little and great expectations of the Greek investment. I have little expectations of you, because your inability and your idealism have no end. But I have great expectations of this investment because, in my view, it can mark a memorial to populism, a memorial to lies, the indictment of entrepreneurship, a memorial to the moral advantage of the Left and finally take us to a world that is normal in a common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u319	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor. The special rapporteurs, the special speakers, will then be given their seconds. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days and today and yesterday I have heard, indeed, a lot of things, but very little and less serious arguments than the convention we are bringing today for ratification. I'll be more specific. I heard only two versions, which challenged the fact that this contract at many critical levels corrects a previous contract, signed in 2014 and which had very serious problems. We tried a lot of trouble, with perseverance and appreciation of the real needs that existed to correct it and correct it. The only arguments which have been put forward in relation to the investment, as is the case with the amending provision, are basically two. One was that you do a hole in the water, because the master plan said almost everything, and the second argument was that it was also heard from the officer's standpoint that you didn't do anything, you don't oblige the investor. I'll answer both. I'll say the first thing about the master plan. In accordance with the definitions set out in Chapter 1 of the Convention of 14-11-2014, the master plan is an indicative draft general provision or draft general provision. Indicative draft general provision submitted by the investment scheme as part of the tender is understood. Yeah. However, in particular matters and improvements resulting from the negotiation, you know that they will be reflected in the comprehensive development plan adopted by a Presidential Decree. This plan will identify the boundaries of the area and the boundaries of the special areas, the areas to be built up with the use zone allowed by use zone (building conditions, use restrictions, etc.).), areas not to be built, the limit values for water, environmental conditions, as well as any measure, term, etc. if required. You forget to say - you have not said so, you are avoiding it - that the master plan is certainly not a commitment and certainly there cannot be any objection to it, in that there was no topography in the contract. That's the one thing. The second point concerns this hint - which I think the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy left - that we are letting the investor's great effort to do some things. I read from the report of the General Accounting Office: ‘The buyer in addition to the obligations under the contract undertakes to implement specific projects and infrastructures of public interest of estimated budget of EUR 1.5 billion (community infrastructure, public utility networks, port projects, sorting stations, transhipment of waste, restoration of buildings, upgrading of the beach, etc.).’. These are in Article 2. These are the two specific arguments which have been heard in relation to the critically improved contract that we are bringing. I'll say exactly what happens in one by one. In the original contract of November 2014, the price was EUR 915 million, all of these 300 million, the date of transfer, and almost every year, EUR 45 million. The amended contract is 466 million in the first two years. I mean, what we'd get in six years, we'll take it in two years. Investment obligation. The minimum investment amount was close to 4.5 billion within 15 years with the possibility of an extension of ten years and with the possibility of charging 30% of the amount of the investment due, without an explicit provision for projects of public interest. In the new contract, the total minimum investment amount is 4.5 billion over 15 years, but 80% within the first 12 years. The minimum investment requirement for public-sector projects is 1.5 billion over the first seven years and 67% over the first five years. The previous contract did not provide for a minimum investment obligation for projects of public interest or a timetable. Projects planned in these are a series of projects not provided for in the previous contract and summarised in the offer are specified at different levels, such as main facilities, recyclable material sorting centre, etc., port works, parcel reconstitution and projects added, 50% of the cost of study and construction of the recyclable material sorting centre, refurbishment, operation and promotion of maintainers, union accommodation areas, regeneration, one kilometre beach upgrade, sports facilities. In addition to the metropolitan park there was a general reference to the masterplan, without specialisation, with no sizes. The new contract is the first priority of the investment. What does that mean? It means that all the works will begin first from the creation of this large park with trees not with bushes, but with high vegetation and will be the first thing to do. It is very crucial in our perception and in the direction of investment. Secondly, a single, open and with unobstructed public access as a result of public space. Not a closed yard, not a closed space, but a shared area of two thousand square meters, fully maintained and kept under the responsibility and costs of the buyer. New element in the investment. Of course, we have a structure of less than two thousand seven hundred square meters, instead of the possibility of three thousand six hundred square meters, covering less than 15%, free-facing front of one kilometre, preserved, service buildings and sports facilities which were thrown out of the previous contract. Of course, there are benefits in the public interest. The networks will remain as they are. There is therefore no public obligation and compensation. As to the government’s delay, it will first extend the investor’s obligations according to the contract schedules, and exceptionally there will be compensation, provided that the delay lasts more than a hundred days. The previous contract was in the ninety days. The conclusion is that the initial contract was carried over for ninety years to 70% of the area and the remaining 30% to the biennial, because its ownership is transferred instead of the amount of the price and with an abstract obligation to maintain green spaces on the basis of a masterplan which was not at all specific at all. Under the amending contract, the price for the State is approximately 2.5 billion, given the mandatory public utility projects, as far as possible specialises with the masterplan, public utility projects are scheduled, not only sports spaces but also sport activities are protected anciently and maintainable and mainly half become an open, public and freely accessible park, with the responsibility of the investor's maintenance. That is the specific result of the negotiation we have made. All the rest is the second part of my speech, which I will tell you a few things. Look, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, you've knocked the wrong door. You're trying to make us say a sin. We will remain unrepentant Do you know what? In defending the public interest, in trying through difficult circumstances of a suffocating situation, not only in our country but in Europe and in the world, in an honest and agonizing way to proceed with compromises, with retreat, with defeats. We know that, and we're fully aware of it. But you are neither in a position nor much more you can deceive our MPs, despise our venture, deport our party. Who? How about you? You who have destroyed one third of the country's wealth and whose unemployment has ejected to 28% on your day? You who are supporters of lawlessness twenty-seven years old? The ones who got married to the client state, the promises, the hatreds? Did you - some of you - carry gifts from the 'SIEMENS' in their funds? Who? Do you identify yourself and rabies support the interests of the most extreme state-owned, parasitic elites who are over-profiting and fanning on tax evasion lists? You who support the far-right agenda, undermining the attitude of our country and our people, attitude of solidarity, of democracy, to a huge problem, such as the refugee problem? In all this one needs to think, because now he has caught you so much pain, but so much pain to finish - he says - in a meeting, in a process with the ideas of the Left. Inside that you don't hesitate to lie a lot. I say a few examples. Thirty years was Mr. Drasakis at the Bank of Attica? How dare you say that? Secondly, will you say anything about the 13 million that you received from the Bank of Attica, PASOK and New Democracy, loans for your parties? Thirdly, Mr. Loverdos of the canalarchs. Listen, and if he didn't listen, did he read any of the minutes of the Committee of Inquiry? Did we say about air? Did we say gray scenery? Doesn't sound anything and nothing at all happened? Twenty-seven thousand recruits, 450 million. Mr. Comrade, please press www.apografi.com/gr. That's where you'll find the real evidence. Do you know what the real evidence says? Three thousand hires for this year with the ASP. There aren't any of these. What you're saying is an ELSTAT census, which includes quarters, eight months and several such things. It's not public recruitment. I would like to say another thing because I have heard one thing, which is very symbolic to us, and that is why I want to say it, that we are reopening the Amydaleza. Why are we reopening the Almondsa? You know? Have you seen what Amygdaleza is like today? There, then, will be people who voluntarily want to return home. We're making a great effort to be decent. Yes, we have difficulties. We have problems. We accept it and don't celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u321	You're celebrating!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u322	No, we're not celebrating or talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Mada, finish it up. I shall conclude, Mr President. But I've been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u324	I'm on it again. We're not celebrating. We are aware of the problems. We are aware of the difficulties. We're trying in very difficult circumstances. Are we making mistakes? Yeah, we do. But not like that! Finally, look at: We are determined to fight this race, with too many difficulties, to give it to the end. You'll be waiting too long on these benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mr Mada has also completed his speech by the parliamentary representatives of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u327	Here you go, Mr. Amyras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, because my dear colleague referred to me, even taking a picture of the public recruitment figures of twenty-seven thousand five hundred people from last July 2014 to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u329	Would you like to make some clarification on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u330	Yeah, I'd like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u331	We're listening. But for a minute, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u332	Of course, Mr President. Firstly, Mr Mada, you are now, as we have done, entering www.apographi.com.gr. What's going to come out? ‘Server not found’. Two conclusions are drawn: Or you have no one appointed, so they do not raise anyone or even this piece is not working well at all, that is, in electronic governance you have done so wet. But we as Potami and all the Members of Parliament have tabled questions, asking for appointments, recruitments of various types of poster worker, non-professional, etc. - to ministries, by Ministry. So by collecting, dear fellow Member, all this information, you will see that twenty-seven thousand five hundred people have passed the public threshold. You told us now 'no, we did not appoint them, they are three, six, nine months'. Does that make a difference? I conclude, Mr President, by saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Amyras, I think you've responded...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u334	...this small "strategic" of twenty-seven thousand five-and-a-half workers in the public sector outside the ASP, costs about 650 million euros a year to Greek taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I would like to speak for five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u337	Minister, would you like to answer Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u338	Yes, Mr. President. Five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u339	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u340	My partner is at your disposal and all your parliamentary group, about how the Internet is handled, because we have just entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u341	Good, Minister. [[Noise from the river Wing]] Please, be quiet! Please, Mr. Amyra, be quiet! We'll start with the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all the special group dealing with the subject, which concerns the contract and the experts who have dealt with the various legal issues, so that I can present the contract in such a way that, on the one hand, it is understandable to the citizens, on the other hand, that I am as beneficial as possible to the objective pursued, which is to make use of the property, in a way that is as short as possible for the benefit of the Greek people. I would like to make it clear that what has been heard by a number of colleagues, who are questioning, in particular, the issues of the benefits arising from the second amending convention, proves that neither the first nor the second convention, but much more so the explanatory statement and the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which expressly states that the additional work relating to the EUR 1.5 billion - and that the projects, in particular infrastructure, which are presented and intended for the use of citizens earlier - are the one which makes the amending contract absolutely necessary so that the Athenian citizen can enjoy an hour earlier park and the settlement of the rafts, the beach and more generally the recreational works. I don't want to add anything more. I want this debate to be closed and, if possible, we can all understand that the difficult ones really start tomorrow. I mean, this project to complete, wants a team that's watching and being close. We have shown that when we sign something, we keep what we sign. We signed a contract. We inherited a much worse contract and improved it. We will try to keep up with all the time, so that the project can be promoted an hour earlier. I would also like to say two words about the mayors who are protesting about 10% of the benefits of the burden they have borne from the 'Eleftherios Venizelos', their own regions, which came to the committee yesterday. I mean, the contract is the result of the declaration. In the declaration, therefore, no provision was made by the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK to any of the promises they had actually made ten years ago. So the change to ask PASOK and the New Democracy, which signed the contract in November 2014. We and if we wanted to do this, we couldn't. However, what I can do as a Member with the powers I have, is to support their fair request in future, if national resources are found, to precede these municipalities which have actually been charged with the functioning of "Eleftherios Venizelos". These few things I had to say. I would once again like to thank all the partners who helped us to be effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Ursuzides. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has the floor, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to respond to the two basic arguments that have been heard in the short time. Mr. Tsakalotos made an economic assessment and tried to say he was close to what they said before. I would remind those who are following us that SYRIZA had then adopted the claim of the current Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Spirtzi - then he was President of the TE - who was going back to the channels and to the gatherings of the protesters and said that 'every price under 3 billion is treason and sales.' So what did Mr. Chakalotos say? To sum up to 915 million, which was the sale on Samaras, the 1.5 billion billion of the furnished works resulting from the contract and the renegotiation made by SYRIZA. We heard a lot of things here, that you made a little fun of strangers, because if they took 1.5 billion in cash, they would go to debt, while you did it in infrastructure projects on purpose so that they wouldn't go to debt. That intelligence was called five to six SYRIZA MPs. So let's go see the truth, Minister, because you're the Minister of Finance, and we have to get along with numbers. On page 190 you have the famous article where you have the extra 1.5 billion projects. By making a simple comparison of this list of articles you have put here with the master plan - and I will then come to answer your second argument about the master plan - the most ignorant - accepted by Mr Baltas in his speech - he understands that you have only added the following: 9, 12, 13 and 14. I repeat: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 from the list were in the master, that is, in our contract. What did you add? You added 9, 12, 13 and 14. What exactly did you add? You added the analysis of 50% of the cost of design and construction of a waste sorting centre. How much money would that be, Mr. Chakatte? How much money? You're a Minister of Finance. Can I get you five million galantomies? No way, but let me put $5 million. The second: Refurbishment, operation and promotion of maintained buildings inside the property. To say that the investor would do that anyway on his own, because he wouldn't slowly make a whole investment and leave these ruins in his own property in his own buildings. But let's just say you did it. How much money would he have given for renovation? I want to put 10 million dollars in, be galantus. A total of 15 million. Third: Creation of accommodation areas of AMEA unions within the property with the current specifications. That's right. Good thing you did it, we should have done it. How much would that be? You want to put 12 million on it? So, 25 million. And the last: Refreshing, upgrading the beach to about one kilometre. Like the investor wouldn't upgrade it. He'd let her suck, dirty. But I'll give you that, too. Shall we put another $10 million on it? We're at 35 million. So, in order to speak honestly among us now, the investment you were saying "real" with Spirtzi on the front was 915 million plus 1.5 billion estimated here, minus 35 million. You've added 35 million. Congratulations! What are you talking about here? What kind of monkey are you doing? Here's even more interesting. You say: "A, no, because you had it on the master plan, the master plan was not a commitment to the company. It was nothing, and we put it in the contract." Mr Baltas said so, to which I will come immediately afterwards to respond to the basic argument of the Treaty of Brest Litovsk, which you signed. Is that so? Mr. Madas as a wicked Continental what did he do? He read you the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State, as you know, is not a binding legal text for the company. The binding legal text for the company is what the contract says. So to read what the contract says. Listen: ‘The buyer, in addition to his obligations under the contract, undertakes to make every effort to implement and complete the contract under the investment obligation.’. I say again: '... undertakes to make every effort'. Shortly below it states: "In particular, the buyer undertakes to make every effort...". You're not telling me, Minister, in law speaking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u345	All of you read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u346	But you have omitted the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u347	The point is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u348	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u349	Read the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u350	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u351	Don't interrupt, Mr. Ursuzides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u352	In legal science, the essence is what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u353	You're misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u354	Let's assume the investor doesn't do it and take him to court. It will come to the courts and the investor will say: 'I made every effort, but the objective conditions did not allow me'. A contract that you would sign for yourself with a third party would say: 'Please, please, do everything in your power'? Are we serious now? People listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u355	Read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u356	The conventions that we all sign for ourselves are: "They must be." You did not say 'commit it' because the company obviously did not accept it. Why didn't he accept it? Because it's a complicated investment. So, what are you telling us now? You tell us that: "Look at the fact that it is 915, which is a sale, plus 1.5 billion of Samaras, which we did not talk about, but we say it now, because we added it today and will make every effort". These, I'm sorry, are not honest things. What Mr Baltas said is much more honest. What Mr Baltas said. Mr. Baltas came and said the clean one, not what Mr. Ursouzidis says, nor what Mr. Mandas says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Georgiade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u358	You'll like that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u359	It's not a question of whether I like it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u360	"We've lost, comrades. We signed the Brest - Litovsk Treaty. What can we do? In this attempt to keep power and go..." Here's what Mr Baltas remembered. He remembered the democratic path towards socialism. Unbelievable! Debates of the European Parliament He reminded me of Tony Blair. "The third road to socialism," Tony Blair said. I don't know if you remember. 'Third road to socialism'. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It's obviously not the same. Tony Blair was much more serious than you, because Tony Blair couldn't get out to say he doesn't want to sell the Greek and then sell it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u361	Mr Georgiadis, do not address Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u362	Tony Blair was saying beforehand that we need to privatise, because improving Britain's economy helps us to have power. You don't say that. You come here and say, "Comrades, we are defeated. What can we do? We're defeated." Then came Mrs Karakosta, who is not here now, and said to us: "You need to learn in New Democracy to manage your defeat." After Mr Baltas told us that you were defeated, after Mr Tsakalotos told us you were defeated, after he told us five - six here that you were defeated, Mrs Karakosta came and says about the New Democracy: "You need to learn to manage your defeat." So to close, Mr President, and to collect, things are very simple. Today, SYRIZA and its MPs one by one sign what they called "storage". Mr Manda's accusations, which he said earlier, 'we do not know what we are saying, that we are excessive' for Mr Alavanos, did not reply. Your party chairman was Mr Alavanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u363	How can we answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u364	You didn't answer. Did you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Georgiadis, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u366	If you don't remember, Mr. Alavanos chaired Tsipras. If there was no Alavanos, Tsipra wouldn't even know him the doorman of his building.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u367	Alavanos, we made him president. It didn't happen on its own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u368	And what did that man say? That Tsipras is a traitor. I don't adopt it. I'll make it clear. I don't like those. I condemn them. But he said Tsipras is a traitor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u370	That's what you didn't answer. You can find these among you left-handed who are traitors and who are not against Alavanos. So it's easy to blame Georgiad, but it's hard to blame Alavanos. I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm gonna need a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u371	When do you close? Three times you said you were closing. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u372	When you take the floor, Mr Chakalote, since I have heard about the negotiation - which some fellow Members have said - to answer, because I have not heard the slightest response from any government on the ongoing, almost daily basis, complaints by Mr Nikos Houndis, your former MEP, who said that Mr Moscovisi has assured him that you personally lost EUR 6 billion from the returns of the SNP, the profits of the European Central Bank bonds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Drasakis answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u374	It's possible, SYRIZA's companions, your man saying you lost 6 billion euros of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Georgiadis, are these issues related to the bill we're discussing? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u376	And a minister can't answer his own man?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Georgiadis, you're gonna make me turn your microphone off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u378	I want to know, Minister. Did you really lose all the gains from the European Central Bank's bonds in Eurogroup?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u379	This is not about the contract, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u380	The Greek people should know that. And if you don't answer me, answer Mr. Nikos Hoodis, who says it every day! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u381	Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u382	Very soon, I want to call on the government to stop lying and cheating on the Greek people. Soon the Greek people will realize that this sale you are making is not for their benefit and I hope it is not too late. Your Greek people have turned their back long ago. Soon we'll come to things to put them where we have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u383	The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. In a few minutes we will vote on ratification of the agreement on a flagship project, which is a national objective. We have some proposals to make, Minister. Let's leave the last ones. Everyone said what he had to say. After all, now it's like we're talking about what Mr. Katrugalos said that there are no reductions. He'll take the paper to every retired person, sees the month. Now, if it has 70% green and other 'if', we will see all this and evaluate it. Our proposal is, therefore, every three months to come to the Committee on Production and Trade with your partners, the "Greek S.A.", and to inform the House of how the project is progressing, the investment. In other words, I would like you to tell us a 'yes' or a 'no', and I think all the political forces agree, if you can every three months - we are not asking you to come every month - to officially inform us and tell us what is happening, what problems there are, how the procedures for this great project have been going on. I hope you will accept that. Secondly, you spoke of the two thousand acres and that they are common space. Mr. Madice said so, and many others. The two thousand acres have been in the proclamation since 2011. It was common in this area, there was nothing else. Let's at least say what's in the contract. It's not bad to agree on. If some things became positive, such as what you said with the MEP and it is very important that we say 'bravo' and 'congratulations'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u385	So you're telling us "bravo"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u386	I told you. And I said it last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u387	You have referred to 'you can tell us'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u388	But, Minister, for the two thousand acres you have to say it and make it clear. It has been public spaces since 2011. You don't just love the environment! Thirdly, with regard to what Mr Chakalotos said that the citizens support the Left when the economy goes well, it is very important what you said. So in 2014, when you were voted on - according to your logic - the people began to go well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u389	You don't sound, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u390	I'm reappearing what Mr. Chakalotos said. Mr. Tsakalotos said that when the Left is voted, the economy is going well. So, in 2014 that they voted for you and in 2015 from an acquired speed, the economy was doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u391	Finish, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u392	I conclude my opinion on this project. This work cannot be done either by the private or by the State alone. If the private sector and the state do not cooperate in this large investment, it will be one brake on each other and this investment will never be made. So, today what we want to ensure is that the private sector operates and that the public sector does not become a brake on investment. I hope you will accept our proposal, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u393	The reason for this is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u394	Thank you. In the bazaars under way by the government with the quartet to complete the first assessment, land uses are referred to as a key point in attracting investment. This is what you do by privatising the Greek embedded, of course, in a more general design. We've been through it. We don't have to talk about it again. That is why we say that you are fully aligned, government and opposition parties, with privatization policy. That means divestment of public property. Now, if you wish, you can say the word 'difference' as 'evaluation', as Mr Tsironis says, or that you are in favour of investment and anti-privation, as Mr Flavouraris has said, or that it may also be a mistake at the SYRIZA conference, as Mr Tsakalotos has suggested - although this, as we say, is an internal issue, it is not about Parliament. The point is that you are looking for definitions of disobedience and at the same time show that you differ from other civil management parties and especially from your rival New Democracy. You can't fool. The same policy is implemented because you are serving the same objective: the profitability of capital. And that's why you sell what belongs to the people and you deprive them of beaches, sports spaces, recreational areas and greenery, housing services and further development of culture, youth housing, hospitals and more. We have put forward our proposal, what we believe is to the benefit of people's needs. What's gonna happen? A private city for money and private policing. Whoever wants to walk doesn't come in. What's that? Divestment, fair growth or exploitation? You're proud of some in a provocative way too. Others have been justified that the democracy of socialism also makes compromises. Of course, there are compromises and compromises. But when you put capitalists' profits above people's needs, then your Greek way of the Left, which you represent, is a carabinatous capitalism and even in the wild phase of neoliberalism. You know, it reminds of a slogan that several years ago the PASOK said and even wrote it in the walls "The PASOK of the people". Some had the inspiration and changed the tone. They wrote: “The PASOK of the people - the people”. We know where the social democracy has come from, which you are, of course, represented today. Finally you may appear to be fighting with New Democracy and PASOK, but you are not opponents, because together you are voting against anti-grass measures that serve capital and the imperialist organizations and associations. But you are competitors for who is the best manager and you are trying to cover it up. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. Let us remember the oldest ones, that in Latsis and Vardinoyannis, New Democracy and the PASOK with an amendment to Stournara - then he was a Minister of Finance - they gave more than 1 billion. They were fines for oil violations that they had to keep on behalf of the public, but they did not observe. The current government of SYRIZA did not take it back, although it was called "intrology", as it did not annul any anti-grass law of the previous ones, but continues where the previous ones stopped and proof is today's Greek contract. You give Latsis, the consortium the fillet, the oxygen of the Greek that all of Attica needs, and you will also pay them with money and with laws of outrageous nature. So this is healthy entrepreneurship. So no illusion that from this exploitation system with any urban party in power either SYRIZA or New Democracy or any other name it has can bring people's prosperity, prosperity only for capital. It is therefore only the organization of the struggle of the people that can secure popular prosperity and that is the hope there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u395	Thank you. Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great investment. The biggest investment, however, is that today we are showing that all Greeks are ready to manage their fate to be able to create and maintain a healthy investment environment. A year ago, the Centroon Association was also in the House for the first time with a vision in essence: to contribute with all its powers so that the country can come out of the crisis. We were all on the private initiative. We have all experienced the economic crisis in our minds, knowing that by making the reforms that we should have, knowing that if we were to abolish pathogens and if we could make a healthy investment environment, we could have a future as a people. We don't need credit. We can stand on our feet and stand on our own with our own trials. What we will gain from this investment in the years to come is the least. What we are gaining today is the strength of consensus and cooperation that the nation needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos, has asked for the floor. The Parliamentary spokesman for the river will then be given the floor for a two-minute intervention. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. In closing today's very important debate, I would like to welcome and congratulate the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, because it has proceeded quickly and brought the convention to the Greek Parliament. All the opinions have been heard. As I said in my speech, we need to see homogeneity, without blindfolds and colored glasses politically. This investment concerns all of Greece, not the southern municipalities, nor the Municipality of Glyfada, neither the Greek nor the Municipality of Piraeus, it concerns all of Greece. It is a part of the overall puzzle of strategic investments, infrastructures, which will bring Greece to light on the global map of investments. It will now become a point of attraction for investment, as long as the entire administration and the entire state function with the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, so that it can complete the project within the shortest possible time. Next year, since we have finished this debate, and since I imagine that the honourable Members of the Officerate are also agreed that we need to resolve the debt issue in time, because the debt is not sustainable - and I hope now we all agree that the debt is not sustainable - to put it on the table to the end, to put the issue of debt and impairment on the paper, in whatever way it is best for Greece, to remain an extra financial margin in the country and the markets to see us competitively with a stability and a documented strategy for public administration and sound finance, with the reforms that we need to do so that we can get to the markets to attract new funds. This investment is not just about Mr. Latsi's family, which I hear. We should know that it is one of the largest companies, perhaps the largest company from China, FOSUN, is a huge company from Dubai, which are companies that are international archipelagos and are almost state-run. It is not this debate. We therefore want to say that this investment is advertising to the states too. However, we must operate under the rules of law, respecting human rights, workers' rights, environmental impacts and all the infrastructures that will be made, all the projects that will be made to be in the interest of the Greek people and to protect - I insist once again - the law and everything that is needed in the local areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos. Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in an hour or so from now, some two hundred and sixty Members from almost all the wings will ratify this convention, this large investment that has looked like the bridge of Arta. There should therefore be another atmosphere in Parliament. I should - I would recognise - the Vice-Presidents were less aggressive, but also government MPs and ministers should have been more substantial. So, instead of the road to socialism, we were told real things, such as jobs, about how this depressed development really will come. But the beast in front of us, the mammoth, the tyrannosaurus, is bureaucracy, it's corruption, it's small and large interests, it's the party hysteries, which at every opportunity will try to stop, not only the particular investment but whatever else goes to this place. So, in order not to have the unemployed as a new major victim in Attica, Greece, the development - which we black eyes make it look at - I think all the political parties should follow the example of the river. Potami constantly shoots the government with proposals, has consensual reason and of course has no problem seeing something good rewarding it, but in the rest we will be, as always, a wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u401	Thank you. The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u402	Very soon. I would like to thank the Vice-President of the New Democracy - and this is not ironic - for the opportunity to reply to Mr Nikos Hountis. The reason I have not answered is that the answer is in public text and you could have answered it too. I imagine that you have not responded modestly, because you wanted to give me the opportunity to reply, since we had discussed this text. It is the text of the Eurogroup decision on 24 May. In other words, the answer to Mr Hood - you may look at it yourself, you know it - is, of course, the point about medium-term measures, debt, point (b) where he says how these 6 billion will be used. So that's why I didn't use it. He's got too many good partners, as far as I know. They could see this text themselves. On the second point you asked me and a few questions, I might be sorry for you, but after all my good efforts and intentions to understand what arguments you said in need of an answer, I did not manage to do so, so I remain in my original suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u403	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Aristides Baltas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u404	Two words I will say about Mr Maniotis, who has the right not to come to the meetings, not to listen to what we said yesterday, not to hear what we said today, and he also has the right not to understand the announcements made by the Ministry of Culture, as far as his attitude toward the investment in Afantou and investment in Greek is concerned. That's his right. But thankfully, thanks to the debate yesterday and thanks to the debate today, there was absolutely no cause - apart from Mr Manatis, leaving at the last minute - for the attitude of the Ministry of Culture, in relation to what I said yesterday and yesterday and what I said today and which I will not repeat. The second paragraph of my answer concerns my dear friend, Mr Georgiadis. I'm glad he reads. He mentioned Brest - Litovsk - it is a good thing - and the notion of defeat there and how the revolution was held from there and moved on as it went forward. I should also like to tell him, in relation to these readings, that if he wants to go a little further on his reading, he can read the distinction between the Democratic Doctrine in socialism and the Third Way of Blair. It's a monstrous difference. And read, because by reading what SYRIZA writes, he will, as I said yesterday, be able to better deal with SYRIZA. Just to make a point: you referred to the fact that these things are outdated in the 1970s and so on. The argument is extremely dangerous. Because you say they're outdated, I'll take it. Marx's out of town, I'll take it. He's outdated every previous major thinker, Plato, Aristotle, Kofukius, whoever you want. They're all outdated. But if they're all outdated in the past, all that's left is how am I supposed to say it? - the poor mind, the dense star of the present leader of neoliberalism or, if you like, liberalism in Greece, Mr. Mitsotakis. And there, if we stay in this theoretical report, we're probably not going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, and the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Following it from 14.11.2014 on a Procurement Agreement for the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of ELENIC SA. and from 19.07.2016 Amendment Convention and other relevant issues regulation’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u414	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: "Definition of 14-11-2014 Equity Sales Contract for 100% of the company's share capital "ELLENIC S.A. and the 19-07-2016 Amendment Convention and other relevant issues regulation’ were accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u423	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u432	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u441	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: "Definition of 14-11-2014 Equity Sales Contract for 100% of the company's share capital "ELLENIC S.A. and the 19-07-2016 Amendment Convention and other relevant issues regulation’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u450	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: "Definition of 14-11-2014 Equity Sales Contract for 100% of the company's share capital "ELLENIC S.A. and from 19-07-2016 Amendment Convention and other relevant matters regulation’, it has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u451	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u452	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on 21-9-2016, a criminal case for the former State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Euripides Stylianides. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-21-S1-commons.u453	(a) Parliamentary control: topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Forest Cooperatives and other provisions'.
