ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 18 March 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 654/15-32016 by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the recovery from the Greek State directly from Greek farmers of State aid amounting to EUR 421 million in the period 2008-2009 following the judgment of the Court of Justice of 8 March 2016. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 652/11-32016 by MP I Piraeus, Nea Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the role of NGOs in tackling the refugee and immigration problem. 3. The current question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Madame Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the plan to address the health needs of refugees in Idomen. 4. The Question No 669/15-32016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna in Heraklion Crete. 5. The Question No 666/15-32016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the delay in the procedure of the bachelorship of irregular residents of third countries in the rural economy. 6. The Question No 662/15-32016 by MP Laris of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios Katsantonis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the stagnation of the prospects for the development of medical tourism in Greece. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 655/15-32016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the treatment of problems in the process of licensing a new generation of tax mechanisms and the unique interconnection of a taxi with a specific electronic mechanism. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 653/11-32016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christou Boukorou to the Minister of National Defence on the Equatorial Equatorial Guinea. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the completion of the road project "Hraclio - Mesara". 4. The Question No 667/15-32016 by MP V. Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the HNPH of building cooperatives. 5. The Question No 663/15-32016 by the independent MP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the participation of Greek businessman in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to PEGASOS SA. 6. The Question No 593/29-2-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the additional works of the Bramian Hierapetra dam. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 613/3-2016 by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the destruction of the catch by vintzotrats. 8. The question raised by Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "prohibition of the speech of Metropolitan Laureate and Mesogeias Mr. Nicholas in the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki". 9. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the problems created in the operation of all the social structures and services of the municipalities throughout the country. 10. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, concerning compensation for the officials involved in the organisation, support and conduct of the tests of qualifications and behaviour of the candidates. 11. The Question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reopening of the Police School and the conversion of the Carditsa Police Department. 12. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Publisher to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the completion of the Greek school of Munich. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of State, concerning measures to ensure the impartial conduct of the polls. 14. Observed. The Question No 630/8-32016 by the independent MP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amount of delayed loans granted to the company ‘PHGASOS’. 15. The Question No 602/1-32016 by F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, on the abundance of refugees - non-legitimate immigrants in Kastelorizo. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The No 594/29-2-2016 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Health on the draft merger - abolishing units of the Primary Care for Health. 17. The current question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the rental of forest fire-fighting helicopters. 18. Under number 573/23-2-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the need for more complete information to the customers of PPC on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the introduction of a distinct limit for vain chromium in drinking water. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. 3. The question asked by the independent MP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the need for a government's legislative initiative on pensions and welfare issues. Before we move to the topical and urgent debate, let me make two announcements to this House. The Ministers of Culture and Sport and Finance, the Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Development and Tourism, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, tabled a draft law on 15-3-2016: "Needs to harmonise Greek legislation with the new Antidopting Code of the World Organisation and other provisions". This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. It has been referred to the competent Standing Committee. National Defence, Finance, Foreign and Justice Ministers, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 15-3-2016: ‘State the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the mutual protection of classified military information’. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign, Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction submitted a draft law on 15-3-2016: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus in the areas of Infrastructure and the Environment/Energy". The Minister for Economic Affairs, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Minister for Finance submitted a draft law on 15-3-2016: ‘Adjustment of Greek legislation: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) of Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions. All of this is referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of Question Time. The second question will be discussed under number 636/9-3-2016 by MP Kozani of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the delay in approving requests for the establishment of Organisational Development Areas for Aquaculture. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue I am thinking of concerns you in one of the most dynamic branches of our national economy, the second most dynamic sector in our rural economy in terms of extroversion, since exports of products produced in the fish farming sector each year are either in the first or second place together with products in the olive sector. This means several thousand jobs. All this wealth is translated into jobs, especially in island and coastal areas of our country, where along with tourism it is an activity that relieves the local population. However, although the offer of this sector has been recognised, not only within the country but also internationally - many foreign houses have recognized in their own studies the dynamics of this sector - we, as a country, have been aware of the content of this sector in recent years. The state has moved on to the issue of spatial planning, which was a consistent demand from the people of the sector. However, following the adoption in 2011 of the specific framework for spatial planning and sustainable development for aquaculture, as this framework for spatial planning is called, where it is identified exactly where we need to become organised aquaculture development areas, this further approval of authorisations for the establishment of those areas has been stuck. Like previous governments, today, for over a year now, has not gone along with these permits so that the businesses that are in these areas are expanding their activities with all the benefits that I have mentioned. So what are your intentions, Mr Minister, to issue these licences, starting with the most mature one and I ask you to take into account the question of the northern and southern European Gulf region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is absolutely right to point out, Mr Kasapidis, that the aquaculture sector has a very dynamic and effective effect on the Greek economy. In recent years we have been in the first position, in relation to the other European countries, and this is due, of course, not only to those who have invested in this sector, but above all to the natural dowry that our country has, clean waters and appropriate temperatures that favour the development of this sector. Of course, in order to say things by their name, and in this area we are faced with a timeless historical delay in demarcating those areas which will provide for such investments and uses. We are dealing with this in all areas of investment activity in the country and so we are forced to start from the beginning or to find ourselves in a situation where things have not taken their way, are not spaced and arranged. In relation to the specific case you mentioned, there was indeed an application submitted to the Department of Spatial Planning of the Ministry of Environment and Energy on 30-6-2011. And from there begins the very long journey of this case, so that we can resolve the issue of demarcation and designation in the area of the northern and southern Evian Gulf and the Orion channel, precisely this region of WIPO, that is, the Integrated Development Area of Aquaculture. What were the steps taken immediately afterwards? The Spatial Planning Directorate forwarded the issue to the IPA, as appropriate, the Directorate for Environmental Licensing. In August 2012, the necessary consultation for the TPA began, the Strategic Environmental Effects Study. What happened from there, then? From then on and between September 2014 and 2015, nine documents were forwarded to the Spatial Planning Department on consultation. At the same time, however - and quite rightly so - the process of revising regional planning is running and for Central Greece, which must obviously be compatible with national planning. There have therefore also been discussions on the Central Greek Regional Council where, during the debate on the regional planning framework, there have been objections from representatives of the municipalities and mayors in relation to the region concerned and the location of the PDO to which you refer. They had requested and held a meeting at the Ministry on October 26, 2015, in order to incorporate the regional council's comments from the Spatial Planning Directorate and all these comments have been promoted to the relevant body that applied for the placement of the PDO. We are now waiting for his replies so that this case can be closed in any event in the best possible way. I repeat, however, and I shall end by saying that unfortunately these delays in time are constantly taking place. The issues will now be dealt with in a much more effective and shorter way, when they will be completed - and I think we are towards the end of this period - all these issues that have to do with spatial planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is, as you say, a description of the events that followed since 2011. However, what I would like to point out is: In 2014, the Multiannual National Strategic Plan for the development of water crops in Greece from 2014 to 2020 was submitted by our country to the Commission. According to this plan, the Operational Programme for Fisheries from the European Union to our country, which contains about EUR 500 million for similar investments in eligible actions in the fisheries sector. These activities also include investment in aquaculture, with an amount of around EUR 90 million national and European participation, which means that by leveraging so much money will be made for investments in the sector of around EUR 140-150 million. A prerequisite for the adoption of the Operational Fisheries Programme was the adoption of this plan, Minister. This plan provides for all of the above, that they should have ended with the approval. You know we're late and exposed. Since these problems are not solved immediately, it is not going to start its operations and disburse these funds. You can understand that, at a time when we need not only the borrowings, anyway, but also those that give us for investments - which are difficult to find other resources - we are going through time. Furthermore, there is also the additional delay, which you have said, with the involvement of regional planning, where regional people will also benefit from this Operational Fisheries Programme. If you, as a ministry, do not rush quickly to resolve this problem, so that the disbursement can begin - not only the restoration of calm - and the creation of this investment environment in order to move forward with these investments, in the country they will not incur this money first. Secondly, this is a dynamic sector, as you said, and it is worth saying that our country is the first in the world to produce cigarettes and sea bass. Also, with regard to the design of the Marine Farmers Association to double the volume of production within the next 15 years, if it does not start at a rapid pace, Minister, I fear that we will go out - as a country and you, as a ministry and people involved in this sector - and thus effectively undermine it without our will. I am not counting on you, just this timeshare will create this problem, and unfortunately, while we have a very dynamic sector, we will say years later that if we had run the procedures much faster, we would have avoided them. That is why now is the time, Minister, for you to give this solution. You understand, as you told us - and I feel you want - that you have to find the way to get rid of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I will be brief enough, because there is a common vision of this issue, but I would like us to keep - apart from the detailed reference to what has been done, because it is good to know this in order to improve and avoid repeating the same mistakes - that in October, within four days, there were two very critical things from the Ministry. The first was the meeting requested by the Regional Council on 22-10-2015 and the second, the meeting on 26 October - while on 22 October the meeting - of the Regional Council had taken place, and from there on 22 October, the mission to the competent Management Body of Eubolic Anonymous Company for the Development of Aquaculture that we are now waiting for him to bring us his final views. These are necessary steps we take. It should be noted, however, that - as you can see - the Ministry is of paramount importance that all the necessary steps should be taken in this direction, and above all, I repeat, that we do not deal with the question of the institutional framework on a case-by-case basis. So when we manage and have a stable, clear, institutional framework, then these things will be on their own. Unfortunately, all this in the other European countries, which are also countries of our reference, has been wasted for decades. In Greece these are not solved. They have not been solved because of political responsibilities and because of how the modern Greek state develops. This ambiguity has also been the cause of the creation of outbreaks of corruption. He also created a stripping between the investors concerned and the state, where there were all these phenomena at times that we want to deal with in an effective way. So I also hold your suggestion and urge us to be effective and clear, so that we really can formulate this new stable institutional framework that can give an almost complete response - because there are always issues of the revision of the institutional framework - so that we can function, as required by the necessary Greek economy in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next topical question, I would like to inform the House that eight topical questions will be discussed at this sitting and seventeen have been deleted. In particular, since the seventeenth, the five will not be debated because of the lack of competence of the relevant Ministry to which the question has been asked, the two will not be debated because of the imprisonment of the honourable Member, and the two will also not be discussed because of the absence of the relevant ministers abroad. More specifically, the question under number 645/11-3-2016 of the first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the integration into the new NSRF of the restoration work of the Old Electric Company of the Municipality of Karditsa will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. Also, the question under number 641/10-3-2016 of the first-round question of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kolkalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the granting of a one-off financial grant of EUR 1,000 per employee of the company "SUPER MARKET LARKISA S.A.", as well as the question of the second-round question of the same MEP of Independent Greeks to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the conversions of educational qualifications in primary education, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questioner. The question under number 637/9-32016 of a timely second question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotini Arabatzis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning measures to shield the current tourist season tested by the refugee - immigration crisis, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Also, the Question No 647/11-32016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds and failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Also, there will not be a debate on the number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of second-round Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EKA. We enter the discussion of the fourth under number 644/10-3-2016 topical question of the First Cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning publications about the establishment of the Foundation "MELINA Merkouri" with the service of the Ministry of Culture. The Minister will answer Mr. Aristides Baltas. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, last week, on 10 March, he saw the light of publicity on a site, as well as on newspapers, news about the exploration or possible build-up of the "MELINA MERKOURI" Foundation from the place that has been in place for many years - particularly since Melina's death and at the initiative of Zul Dassen - on the 9-11 Polygnatou Street in Plaka. As you can see, this is a news that peeked us all. Much more as responsible for the area of culture of the Democratic Partnership, and with the weight of the responsibility that Melina Mercouri inherited to us all in its struggle and work throughout Greece. That is why we immediately tabled the timely question. The foundation is self-financed, housed in Plaka after a ministerial decision by then Minister Vangelis Venizelos. We know that the services it offers in the area of culture, as far as Greek culture and its dissemination are concerned, are enormous. We also know that the foundation has a number of multi-purpose activities. I will mention selectively that he is the head of claiming Parthenon's sculptures, that he gives scholarships to students to move on to their doctoral thesis. It provides access to students at the famous Melina Mercouri Archive - Zyl Dassen and collaborates with foreign universities. Of course, it is well known for the award of the annual award "Melina Mercouri" to new actors. As you can see, then, the news fell like a lightning in an oath and could not leave any inert. The next day, on 11 March, we were glad to see that there was a disapproval in the press both by the Foundation's board of directors and your own, that you will tell us today. The question therefore remains timely, because it enables us to hear from the most official lips, the Minister of Culture, that this was not, is not, and is not, in your ministry's purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u12	In the written version of your question, there are - it is obviously not your fault - lies, as, as, "it has decided, by means of a document notified to the institution, to ask for the build-up..." etc. That's completely false. They show how it works, how it possibly traps MPs and political forces and of the absolute non-institutional issue. Fortunately, the foundation disproved the news, as you said, but I did so at a press conference in advance. But I repeat it here too. What is the reality: we had a conversation with Mr Argyropoulos, who came to see me on other issues. We discussed the subject of the "MELINA Merkouri Foundation" in the rest of the debates. We asked him, very friendlyly and comfortablely, if there is a possibility of being given part of the building to possibly join the Cyclades Escape, because the building that the Foundation houses "MELINA MERKOURI" is great, while the building where the Cyclades Escape is housed is very small. Mr Argyropoulos has listened very well to this request. We didn't ask him for anything else. He said he would obviously discuss it with the Management Board and that we would come back to a next debate. That's the truth. That from there on, it came out that we sent a document, that we decided, that we ordered, and so on, to strike - oh, no! - "MELINA MERCOURI" Foundation is completely false.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I am pleased with the truthfulness of your statement, because the publications may have been 'inflamed', saying that there is already a decision notified to the institution, but you say there was a word. Tobacco without fire doesn't exist. Evidently the Ministry is trying to house the Cyclades Cabinet. So let me tell you that the Melina Merkouri Foundation is a self-sufficient institution in which it cannot - our view is that and we are putting it here today - set up something else. He's got a lot of action. The vital area is very important for the Foundation's activities. Therefore, whatever thought there is should be considered with greater generosity, because this institution is a cultural area where Greece is emitted, culture is emitted. And this has been done in the last few years in the best possible way. I would like to believe, with what you have just said, that the Ministry of Culture is facing the Foundation "MELINA MERKOURI" and the work it is doing with the seriousness that it deserves. I am pleased to hear from you that this effort by the institution to be a separate pole of disseminating our culture will continue its presence and course, with the recognition and assistance of the official state. We will not stop following this issue, as we will not stop following the issues that concern the Ministry of Culture as a whole, which is one of the most important ministries. Unfortunately, at this critical time for our country, images like those of Asylum alone do not emit culture. I am therefore pleased that, within the framework of the parliamentary control, we can catch up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, I am pleased that you will systematically monitor the activities of the Ministry of Culture. We are always open to good criticism, as well as to sharing some problems that we have. For example, I have no objection to what you said about the MELINA Mercury Foundation in this regard. As far as I understand it, there is already some activity there that is related, if I'm not mistaken, to Karrakiozis. Also, we're open and you're aggregated. However, you must share with us the issue that has to do with the fact that there are spaces that need to be exploited. There's a need for aggregations in general. There are rents that sometimes are great. These are the results of a political wastefulness in buildings, rents and so on. In this sense, I have no objection to working together to deal with problems of this type. Just, please, once you are based on some news, first check on the news and ask exactly what is going on in relation to the news so that it makes sense for parliamentary scrutiny and not to rely on substantiated press releases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty one students and students and three educational sessions from the High School of Kounuupidians of Chania (A' Department). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that on Tuesday, March 22, 2016, at 19: 00, a debate will take place on the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, on the level of party leaders, on developments in the field of justice, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Next is the eighth under number 566/22-2-2016 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Publisher to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the emergence of the "Samothraki Victory" as a pan-European symbol. The honourable Member's question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Baltas. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, the exploitation and promotion of our cultural heritage is our obligation to preserve our identity, so also our status as a nation and a state. It is a great opportunity, Minister, to upgrade Evros and Samothrace, Thrace, northern Greece, but also to improve in difficult days, in difficult political times, the image of our country abroad and not just. With regard to this opportunity, as early as September 2015, I proposed to a meeting of the former and current MEPs of the New Democracy, as well as of the Members of the European Parliament, the promotion of the adoption of the 'Samothrace Victory' as an symbol of the victory of European ideas, principles and values, against any anachronistic, totalitarian and dark idealism that it has at times attempted to infiltrate in Europe. In addition, following the tragic events of last November in Paris, I made my condolences to the French President by letter I delivered to the French Embassy, which included my proposal for the 'Samothrace Victory'. Besides, in addition to all others, the Greek and French people also connect the masterpiece of the "Samothrace Victory", which is based in the Louvre Museum and comes from my special home and election district, Evros, and the first island of Europe from the east to the west, Samothraki. This idea was enthusiasticly accepted by the French Embassy officials here who said they would propose further the adoption of "Nice" as a symbol of Greek friendship and cooperation. I think this is an important opportunity to highlight our cultural heritage, but also to improve our country's image abroad. Letters on this subject I have sent to the President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulos, to the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Alexis Tsipras, to the President of the European Commission, Mr Junker, to the President of the European Parliament, Mr Schulz. And of course, Minister, I have sent you and a letter, but also a timely question. All of these letters I'll submit to Parliament's minutes and deliver them to you for your ministry's archive. I will also submit to the Minutes of the House the following documents - support for the proposal from the whole of Samothrace, Evros and Thrace. In particular: Resolution of the Municipal Council of Samothraki, Resolution of the Regional Council of East Macedonia and Thrace, Resolution of the Regional Council of East Macedonia and of Thrace, Resolution of the Municipal Council of Alexandroupolis, Resolution of the Hellenic Republic of South Greece, Resolution of the Hellenic Republic of Evros "The House of Samothraki" in Alexandroupolis and Resolution of the Cultural Association of Samothrakis Stuttgart Germany, Resolution of the Panthracic Federation of South Greece, Resolution of the Hellenic Republic of Greece "The House of Antoinette" in Alexandroupolis and, finally, declaration of the leading music composer, Mr. Zoi Choganouria, from Samothraki, in favour of this initiative and which has become an ambassador for this splendid and efficy idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Treasury, I would ask you to complete your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u20	You can remove a minute from my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of the above, Mr Minister, you ask: Do you intend to promote the idea of the European Union adopting - either directly or through one of its agencies - the 'Samothrace Victory' as a symbol of the victory of European ideas, principles and values against any anachronistic, totalitarian and dark idealism that it is trying to infiltrate within Europe? How do you view the prospect of being used as a symbol of even Greek friendship and cooperation? What other measures do you think to take to promote our cultural product, especially in Samothraki and Evros where our cultural heritage has many untapped prospects and opportunities? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prussakis, as you know, the Ministry of Culture is primarily responsible and responsible for all matters relating to the promotion, protection and dissemination of our cultural heritage. I must admit that, having taken this responsibility, I am impressed at how in practice every corner of Greece there is a major monument of culture of this heritage, a major monument, which can be in any historical layer of this heritage, from Paleolithic times to classical times, to Greek and Byzantine times. It is a country, therefore, from this point of view, absolutely privileged. And our responsibility is precisely to highlight to every corner of Greece its peculiarities in relation to this legacy. I think we are totally in agreement with this. Your idea of having a symbol of Greek friendship is linked to the values of democracy and the fight against ideas, which are against democracy, and I also consider it a very good idea. However, I have some reservations - and it is interesting to discuss this not only here, perhaps another time - about turning it into a symbol of Greek friendship - and it must emerge, if necessary, from a symbol of Greek friendship on the basis of these principles - a real masterpiece, which, however, is not in the place it was made to be. He's at the Louvre Museum. It's an absolutely impressive exhibit. I remember a young child, when I was first visiting Louvre, the impression that Samothrace's Victory had made and the "Afrodite of Milos". Since then I have been thinking naively like this: Milos and Samothrace are Greek islands, why are the statues in Louvre? Because we currently have very big issues of claiming Parthenon sculptures from the British Museum. To formalise - as a symbol of Greek friendship - a masterpiece, which is not where it should be historically, raises a question. It is like it legalises either a distinction between Louvre and the British Museum or a recognition on our part that, in some museums and for some historical reasons, there can be exhibits - masterpieces in fact - concerning our heritage. So I have a lot of reservations about him and only the reason. Perhaps a further debate - among us I mean - in the context of the Greek Parliament or in the context of the Ministry's policy, would help to find a consensus - conclusion to such questions as this. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I will answer my second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor. Let me remind you that you will be removed a minute, as we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your intention to seek together a good framework for claiming and promoting a universal request from all institutional services and the people of Samothrace, Evros and Thrace. I think that all the Greek people are costing behind this desire, behind this projection. No matter how much I've discussed only positive words, I heard them. Of course, I am taking into account the seriousness with which you are dealing with this case, and I would like to say that I am solidarity in being able to do so. Just because we are discussing this here in the Greek Parliament, it is very important. On the other hand, I know you have respect for Evros and Thrace. Recently you were present at the opening of the painting exhibition of Giannis Mitrakas at the Benaki Museum. And thank you very much, because you surround with respect and love for our people. I would like to say that the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace has already secured the authorisation from the administration of the Louvre Museum to create two faithful copies. On the one hand, with marble Kavala and Dramas, it will be placed on the beach of Alexandroupolis, after codecision by the mayors of Samothrace, Alexandroupolis and, of course, of our regional authority and the other, at the place where the "Vice of Samothraki" was found, i.e. Samothraki. I think there is interest in local society and in the institutional factors that guide it. We first thank you, and we are all at your disposal - not just speeches - both Thraces and Hebronites and Samothracites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Prussias. Just to mention some information - you probably know it - in relation to eastern Macedonia and Thrace. The building of the Archaeological Museum of Alexandroupolis will be delivered on April 30th and until the final exhibition, which will be in the museum, will run periodic exhibition. The final report for October 2017 is planned and will then be run at a periodic report. The project was already received from the Evros Antiquities of the building and the assisted areas of the Samothraki Museum, the programmatic development contract with the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace was updated for the implementation of the project "Study for the Protection and Promotion of the Faculty of the Tombian Tymvos of the Doxipara - Zone" and the programme contract was signed again with the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace for the promotion of the ancient Egnatia Road. From there we will have many findings and many possibilities to link Eastern Macedonia and Thrace to the rest of the Greek trunk for the benefit of all the regions and parts of the regions that have to show parts of this ancient heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, let me tell the House that four letters of corresponding Members have been sent to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, concerning a request for absence abroad. In particular, Mr Koumoutsakos seeks a foreign leave for 17 March 2016, Mr Dendias for the period from 21 to 22 March 2016, Mr Manatis for the period from 17 to 18 March 2016, as well as Mr Skouriakos for the period from 18 to 20 March 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u28	The House approved the requested permits. At this point we will move to the first under number 646/11-3-2016 topical question of the second question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the cost of using electronic means of payment. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Stathakis. Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, within the great fortresses of the negotiations you have at this time, I would like to say that it is important that you attend and honour the parliamentary process. In my question now: As is well known to everyone, there is an interaction between the payment instruments and the degree of penetration between businesses, citizens and the economy. The use of electronic means of payment of 10% over a period of four years reduces, according to studies, the paralysis and obviously tax evasion by 5%. Also, Minister, according to data from the European Central Bank in Greece, there are seventeen electronic transactions per inhabitant, while in the European Union the average is eighty-nine transactions. In other words, Greece is the last in the European Union. Finally, in order to make this penetration of electronic means of payment, there are serious suspensions on the use of POS machines and at the same time on the charge made by banks to entrepreneurs or the citizen. And, of course, this cost goes to the final consumer. My question is this: What action will the government take to ensure that the cost of using electronic means of payment and the cost of buying POS electronic devices are brought down to levels that allow electronic transactions to spread? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u31	As you rightly said, it is incomprehensible that, as far as electronic means of payment are concerned, Greece is last in the European Union with only eight transactions with a card per inhabitant. I would remind you that Portugal has a hundred and twenty-two - it is above the average European level - not to mention a large number of other countries which are at the level near the 200s. Therefore, this means that use is desirable. The Government in various ways seeks to extend the use of electronic means of payment and at the same time closely monitors the entire system of charges. Let me remind you of the issues involved in these transactions. First, these transactions are quadrupl. It is the consumer, supplier, bank and specific card used in the management of this system. So they're four parties involved. In the first relationship, in the relationship between the supplier and the consumer, we have incorporated a complete ban on the supplier charging anything to the consumer. I'm referring to the store, the supermarket, the trader. The supplier shall not charge anything for the use of an electronic means of payment to the consumer. The second relationship concerns the link between the supplier and the bank. That is where we have incorporated all the relevant European directives. This is where prices are imposed and must comply with a few minimum rules from those existing for interbank exchanges, when there are two banks, but also that of 0.2% or 0.3%. The fourth relationship is the relationship between the banks and the card. There I would remind you that the charges are a little large because all the cards we use in Greece are cards abroad. There is a cost, therefore, which adds to these transactions. We have taken all the necessary legislative measures to ensure that the legislative framework is adequate. Secondly, we introduce the Electronic Banking Observatory to the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection, which will monitor the charges that exist by the various banks. I would remind you that the charges are governed by the rules of free competition, but at least we will have a monitoring of the charges with the electronic monitoring centre. I now come to the substance of what has happened so far. The system started at very high charges. Slowly, however, charges have been reduced and have been reduced at the expense of two downward trends. One trend is that obviously the charges made are differentiated by volumes of transactions. For example, charges on this type of card on average today in supermarkets are 0.46%. It's a very satisfying price. In other cases it is more than 1% and in many small stores there are charges that exceed 1.5% to 2%. The average at the moment, based on the data we systematically collect from the Bank of Greece, is 1.2%, which is considered close to the European average, with a trend of decline. We seek to get down below 1%. There are some positive initiatives for both charging and charges for the purchase and installation of POS. These facilities started at a relatively high cost of between 100 and five hundred euros. Now, based on the information from the various banks, we move to a installation cost of about 100 to 50 euros to install a POS. To close, I want to remind you of two things. This subject of electronic transactions can be seen from two perspectives. He can see it from the point of view of the consumer's right. According to this, every consumer will have the right to pay by electronic means, which makes it more or less binding for the large part of businesses and services and goods to have a machine to defend the right of consumers. And it can also be seen from the viewpoint of the Ministry of Finance, that is, the facilitation of these transactions in the collection of VAT and other tax revenues. From our point of view we will encourage the use of these measures. We will intervene - if necessary - to take additional measures and follow this issue, so that we and consumers can have a full picture of how the course of these charges goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u32	Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr Minister, I have a reservation on what you said about the impact on the consumer. I think that, after all, the cost is passed on to the consumer. It doesn't seem in the first phase, but it's finally transferred. We are therefore saying the same thing, but it may have been misunderstood that it has no impact on the consumer. The second element I would like to say is that there are professionals where on the basis of some debts they have and through the "Tiresia" system they cannot make a transaction with POS engines. I would like an answer to that. Finally, although it is not directly related to the question, but it is within the interest shown by the citizens and also by the Members for the negotiations, I would like you to convey to us - if you have - some messages about the negotiations that are under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr Balaura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u35	Mr Balaura, you are absolutely right, because we have the evidence from the Chamber of Deputies that ask for it. This is a very important matter. One in two rejections invokes what you have implied. They do not consider that there is a user-supplier in the ratio of relationships with the bank and one in two cases I can say - according to the evidence - that rejection is unnecessarily unnecessarily, that is to say, no very specific excuse. At least that is how the companies reply to the questionnaire. 55% of those who received a negative answer state that they did not receive any strong justification for this rejection. It is therefore an issue that we need to look at more closely - the cases that are rejecting this request - and to see how this situation can be improved in order to extend the use of this instrument. As far as the charges to the consumer are concerned, it is not in theory charged. In other words, the price of the product it purchases is exactly the same. It's not a burden at all. The idea of electronic transactions therefore remains to be met by all intermediaries because they save costs. Obviously the transaction medium, if it is cash or electronic transaction, reduces costs in the company in the case of the electronic instrument against the costs it needs for security reasons, if it is paid in cash and I am referring to large turnovers. As far as developments in the issue of negotiations are concerned, you will allow me to remain silent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u36	Silenced like a string!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u37	It's a critical day today. It's all four themes on the agenda, whenever it's difficult to announce anything in relation to that course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The question under number 643/10-32016 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "missing of the Orthodox Hierarchs from the Greek schools", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education. The question under number 648/11-3-2016, first question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the educational needs of the Municipality of Faistos Heraklion of Crete, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question by No 567/22-2-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the imposition of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras on professional establishments in the area by decision of the City Council, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Interior. The Question No 466/1-2-2016 by Ms. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. We continue with the seventh under the number 638/9-3-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Member of the European Parliament II Piraeus Union, Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the recruitment process in the public IEK. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the process of recruiting teaching staff in the IEK. Teachers who are already in the public service are appointed to carry out about ten hours a week, thus having a degree of qualification with regard to those who are already working in the public sector, contrary to those who are unemployed and could take the place of these hours of teaching. We have a large list of unemployed people who could cover these positions at least for the hours they could be paid to teach. In addition, in public IEKs since 2017 there will be the so-called adult trainer certification. In order to obtain the certification they have already paid the people who want it 120 euros since May 2014, and yet few have given tests in the summer of 2015, because they were not asked to be examined. So those who have already received the certification will precede the candidates who have not already taken the tests. I ask the following questions. Do you think it is fair to prejudge public IEK's positions already appointed public professors, full-time, against other competent or even better unemployed teachers? What do you intend to do about this injustice? Will you promote the unemployed against the already employed? Secondly, do you intend to carry out the certification tests in a short time, so that the parties who have submitted their papers may be able to do so within the time they are still employed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, let me explain the procedure a little bit and then come to the specific questions you raise. Law 4186/2013 defines the qualifications and conditions of those who can be employed to teach at the Public Institutes of Vocational Training. It is therefore stated that they can teach primary and secondary education teachers by means of a transfer operation. They leave their schools. Secondly, primary and secondary teachers, substitutes, orthodox workers, etc., who are doing overtime. Third, adult trainers under fixed-term or project contract etc. Finally, members of the Special Educational Personnel (SCI) and Special Assistant Personnel. An adult trainer is defined as a professional who has the legal formal and substantive qualifications for the exercise of the profession and the required certified training capacity and competence for the specific and general education of adults. In accordance with Article 27 of that law, the adequacy and continuous update of the qualifications of these people, adult trainers, must be essential conditions for their recruitment in public IEC, so that people who teach adults are highly trained. These are, therefore, foreseen in accordance with the law. So they must be certified by the EEA, according to the law. But here I would like to tell you about the questions you are asking that, in October 2015, the Secretary-General of Lifelong Learning set the molecules, molecules, for 2015-2016, including thirty-four molecules for education - training, twenty-two molecules for educational experience, ten molecules for work experience and six other qualifications, languages, computer manipulation, etc. For the first time, social criteria are laid down: 20 molecules for the unemployed - and there is a classification according to the years of unemployment - for special categories of third parties, multitudes, microenterprises, etc. extra molecules with 20 molecules. Is that what he helped with? To have the list of certified trainers on the one hand and the uncertified ones on the other. With the unemployment molecules, people who did not have certification by the EPPC were able and hired, because, under the law and the amendments accepted by the law of 2013, certification is a qualification and is further molecules, but is not a prerequisite for one to be recruited. With regard to what you said about the certification tests in the EEA - I have the document here and I will present it in the Minutes - I would like to say that in 2014 four times were carried out for certification, eight times in 2015 and three thousand six hundred thirty-three candidates came in, three thousand forty-eight of them obtained a certificate of certification, i.e. they were certified. So we don't have a huge number of uncertified people. And there's going to be a new EPPC test in order to cover the rest of the people who want certification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications. I'm a little nervous about this: OK, people who get distracted, but why not get unemployed to cover this position? They already have their job. Why distract them and not take from the unemployed already, who at the moment you know in what state they are in? I find it a little too far-reaching to distract them and take them somewhere else, and they could even cover these few hours and receive some income from those who are already unemployed. As far as certification is concerned, you quite rightly said that with the molecules that have precedes the unemployed, but those who have already submitted their papers and have paid to give their examinations should not be called and given and have a chance? And they are mostly unemployed, not working. So I ask you, at least, to look at the fact that they don't get distracted, not to go as if they were double-depositors. We give the world the impression that a man who is already working can be reworked and we pay him overtime. Well, why pay him overtime and not cover the position of an unemployed person and show our social faces toward the world? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u45	I agree with you, and I am in favour of being unemployed. I will say, however, something you have said in your prototype, that teachers and primary and secondary teachers have the upper limit ten hours of teaching a week. The non-educational, that is, those who are not in schools, have a maximum of twenty hours. That is, people who have no other job are ahead of them. What you are asking for, why the unemployed are not recruited, etc., may need to be regulated. Under the 2013 law - I know that very well, because we had the problem in October, when we were preparing the molecules - since the law requires adequate, teaching experience, all of this, and two lists have been made with certified and uncertified, the moleculosis of unemployment and the other social criteria has allowed us to overthrow the list and get into unemployment-based people. There may need legislation, we could not get over it - I know, we spent many hours - because we would object to those who were or certified or were educators with great teaching experience, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Before moving on to the next timely question, let me make a statement on the other topical questions that will not be discussed by the Ministers. The Question No 615/3-2016 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the possible establishment of Turkish agency offices in Greece, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The Question No 614/3-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagossou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on “the climate of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace” will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "delegation of our name to the Skopje", will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The Question No 606/1-32016 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The Question No 621/7-2016 by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Eftasthias (Efis) Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health, on the work of building the new wing of the Amalada Hospital, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The Question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the deficiencies in the hospital and in the public health sector in Lesvos, will not be discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The question under number 588/29-2-2016 by MP Fthiotis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Astalos Karastasis to the Minister of Health, concerning the problem of the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. We enter the fourth under number 649/11-3-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism, on the repayment of shipowners and on the survival measures of the "ELLENIC INDUSTRIA ZACHARI". The question will be answered by the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we come back two months later on the same subject, on the subject of "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHAHAS" and on the payment of the shipowners, because at the same time when the uncertainty about their future continues and is increasing even further. Of course, we must say here that the responsibilities of the current government as a whole in relation to the issue that we are discussing, after having implemented - and now also implemented - the directions and policies of the European Union and its common agricultural policy. Minister, although beet seed has already begun, and it is still going on in some cases hesitantly, although it is called upon by the tax producers to pay VAT, although they will be called in a few days' time for them to be taxed for their last year's income, we have to say that they have not received this income since last year's production, that is, they have not been paid, except for a small advance of 20%. The remaining 80%, in other words over 8,000,000 euros, have not yet been collected. With what courage and with what guarantees to cultivate these people and retreat beet? Thus, there is a visible risk that the ‘ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL SUGAR’ will be found without raw material. At the same time, according to complaints by the Federation of workers in the sugar industry, the creditor is required - in order to finance the sugar industry - to divest its two factories in Serbia, which, as you know, are a valuable asset. Indeed, it requires divestment at very low cost and even more so to the private competitor of the ‘ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHARI’. So we ask you: what measures will you take to ensure the financing of the sugar industry, so that we can finally pay the producers for their last year's production? What measures will you take to prevent these two factories from being sold out in Serbia, owned by the "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHARI"? And anyway, tell us what programme you are thinking to develop the production of sugar in our country, a production that in the past has proved its enormous potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u49	Let me remind you right from the outset that the present government has inherited a situation in which sugar factories were practically closed. There was no way to work, and we did, and we fought, to restore the restructuring and operation of this company in order to ensure the continued production of beet in Greece in the medium term. Let me remind you of what we did last year, we just took over. I would remind you first of all that the problem has been accumulated for many years. The problem of the sugar industry, which has been an exemplary example of political mediation and irrational functioning for many decades, has created a deeply overdue company and has increased further with the sale of ATE to Piraeus Bank, as the owner, the clearer of ATE is different from the only creditor that is Piraeus Bank. Last year, what we did as a government was to put the industry back on track by increasing its share capital by 30 million euros. This covered some of the company’s accumulated debts to suppliers and other operating needs, but obviously this could not be continued unless a viable solution was found. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would remind you that the project, which currently exists in an agreement between Piraeus Bank and "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHARIS" says: The company owes 150 million, which it obviously cannot serve under any circumstances. The restructuring plan says: From the sale of some of the company's assets, 50 million will be recovered, the factories in Serbia you mentioned and some other inert assets. The debt will be written off 50 million and 50 million will be a 10-year loan from Piraeus Bank to sugar. This plan, which I describe and outline on loop lines, makes it a sustainable prospect for factories to be able to work and serve their lending, over 50 million. It ensures the continuation of production over the medium term. In order to achieve this, however, a second element is needed, a viability plan for the company itself, which must reduce its cost, so that it can survive in the medium term. Now, you have said that the sale of Serbia's factories takes place first, at a low price or weakens the company. It is unprecedented in the world that there is a parent company that goes bankrupt and closes and saves the subsidiary. We recognise that it does not gain, it does not enter, it is a business, but it is part of the restructuring in order to save the mother and save the domestic beet production. So it's a cost that we have to pay for in order for the company to survive. The second is that the price will be fixed. Of course, there are offers at the moment, but, of course, the price will be fixed by a tender that will be handled jointly by the «GREENIK INDUSTRY» and the bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have just confirmed the sale of the company's two factories in Serbia, and that is not a good development. Employers think so too. You spoke of a short-term economic viability plan. You talked about 50 million that we'll get from selling the factories. I don't think it'll be 50 million, it'll be much less. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u52	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u53	Let us remind ourselves of a business debt of 150 million euros. But here, let's say that already the "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHARY" has paid for this debt, only in interest, about 50 million so far, during the previous period. You spoke of the fact that you received a problem situation in "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL". We don't question that. You have avoided, however, the real causes of this problem, all over the past few years - we consider it to continue from your own government - which was a constant undermining of the development and survival of the "ELLENIC INDUSTRY". This has, of course, resulted in a shrinking of the tachypical culture, which is slowly leading to slow death. You have avoided saying that this is a well-known objective of the European monopolies in this sector and of the European Union for concentration and concentration, which is certainly promoted by the Greek governments too. So is your government taking care of the development of the business groups in this sector. However, in order for customs and sugar industries to survive, there is a difference. And we are talking, Minister, about a sector which, as I said in the past, has proved to be not only capable of meeting domestic needs, but also of exporting. At the moment, the situation has been reversed. At the moment Greece is importing sugar. We are talking about a sector that is directly related to the food issue of our people, to the productive potential of the country, which concerns farmers, to workers in the business, to consumers themselves, because the high quality of Greek sugar is known. All this, of course, has been imprisoned, imprisoned in the European Union's common agricultural policy, in the infamous quotas in which you are disciplined. But here, let us say that the results of this policy were to shrink production and the results of this policy, namely by shrinking production, with little production, to say that we have a great deal of cost. But, when production is small, it is only natural that the cost of production increases. No one needs to be an economist to understand it. But we also have newer developments. Today, from what we read in the press, and indeed in a government paper, we have the resignation of the Vice-President of the Hellenic BIOHARIA, who disagrees - just now, as we read - with the viability plan. But I wanted to say about the quotas, you know that since 2017, quotas have been abolished. It is very important, therefore, in 2017 to find this company, the "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHARI" and the wood-growing sector in an upward phase of development. That is what we expect to hear and see this sustainability plan, for which we have very great and serious reservations. In any case - to close with the first question of today's topical question - we must, Minister, now - and you have not answered it - pay the farmers directly for their last year's production. And now we have to draw up and present a programme for the development of this company, of course, knowing that something like this within the common agricultural policy seems utopian. This could only be done if the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece is implemented, when these factories become popular property and will work and exhaust the huge productive potential in this sector as well, in order to resolve this issue for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u55	Let me start with the direct payment of the customs producers. We met yesterday or yesterday - I do not remember - Mr Apostle and I with the representatives of the customs producers. Our assessment is that, as long as the project is in the process of approval and it can be seen that it is also in the written process now that it is not some form of State subsidy that can question the viability of the project, in about three days after the decision, it will be paid by the customs producers for last year's production, since the refinancing of the company according to the plan reaches a certain number of millions that outweighs the direct payment of the customs producers for the previous year. That is why we encouraged customs producers to continue to plant and reach a goal. Greece produces - I am now entering the most general topic as you know - 150,000 tonnes per year on the basis of the quotas you have said. Domestic consumption is 300,000 tonnes. In order to survive the ‘Hellenic INDUSTRIAL SUGAR’, the minimum domestic production must be more than 100,000. We are seeking to move in at least in the next few years on such a scale of domestic beet production. This is absolutely crucial. By 2017, the "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY" – which I insist has a very high cost compared to other European Union countries – retains the privilege of importing sugar from other European Union countries at predetermined prices that are considered very favourable. This results in the acquisition of a commercial gain from these transactions. This, however, is abolished in 2017. Therefore, this makes it all the more imperative that the company, now free of overcompensation and with open capabilities, proceed with a coordinate and sustainable treaty and have a plan with which we can see the support and development of the sugar industry in the medium term. Our objective is for Greece to continue its production at the desired levels and the "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL ZACHARIS" is to be a company that has been sanctified and able to respond to this prospect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, I should like to make a statement to this House. Mr Koukodimos, by letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, is requested a short-day leave for a transition abroad from 18 to 20 March 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u57	The House approved the requested permission. Also, the timely question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning "the crucial days for the Greek football", will not be discussed due to the sudden impediment of Mr Lazaridis. We enter the sixteenth century under number 582/26-2-2016 topical question by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and the Aegean, on the provision and safeguarding of the workers' working relations at the Piraeus Port Agency, following the sale of the majority package of shares in the PPA. The question will be answered by Minister Theodores Dritsas. Mr Kouzilos has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, after selling the majority package of the PPA, there are no references to workers and their working rights, to their employment status. There are only a few general references which certainly have no value. Questions, Mr Minister: How are PPA workers ensured? Is there a plan to avoid a problem in jobs and their regulated labour rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u59	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that - and this question gives an opportunity - the debate on privatizations and privatizations in our country usually moves at a skin and sceptical level. There has never been a serious discussion about whether privatisation sectors of the economy can really be combined with the public sector, at what level, in what terms. In particular, in the case of journalists, there is always a debate overcrowding of the positive parameters of the private economy and a depreciation of the public economy while in reality our country - the historic path of economic growth - was based on a strong public sector in key productive pillars thanks to which private entrepreneurship has developed and without them that could not happen. In any case, the private economy has some advantages of flexibility or growth in the globalised economy now new opportunities to find new markets. Because the investment piece, in any case, is questionable, that is, the public may also have such possibilities, regardless of whether the period we spend as a country and as a Greek economy is not the most favourable. All this does not mean, however, that even under privatization conditions the debate is stopping there. On the contrary, that's where it starts. In any case, privatisation makes sense if it ensures the public interest and that means social dividends. And part of the social dividend are the labour issues and the position of workers in this production process. We are not talking about regimes for a special free economic zone. We are talking about productive units integrated into the development perspective of the Greek state and Greece. In this respect, the debate on the part of the Ministry and the Government has been opened and has not been limited to small references to labour issues. On the contrary, it has been opened several times by me at the Ministry, but also on the part of the Government, and the aim is, in various ways, to bring things closer to guaranteeing - and I now speak of the port of Piraeus specifically - the rights of port users, large, medium-sized or small, that the coastal towns and coastal towns also have a say in critical decisions that may affect their operation and ultimately state supervision. More specifically, I will speak - what measures we have planned and taken in this direction - in my dentistry. But, really, these issues are open. In view of the debate that will follow next time, it is of paramount importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you said'skin privatizations', that is, the whole thing we see in the skin. There was a proposal from various bodies and from FMYLE to have the Barcelona and Marseille model which was not implemented and demanded too many bodies. There is also concern about Law 2688/1966, the law on industrial relations, which defines labour relations and safeguards workers. We're talking about a thousand workers in the PPA right now. There are the working regulations and the Staff Regulations, there is the collective agreement, which will apply until 2017, if I remember correctly, but then, from there and beyond what is happening? We have an example - which you, too, have denounced - of 'COSCO' for labour. They went, for example, to get job inspectors to do a check and didn't let them. They were told, "Here is a private business, you won't come in." You know them very well, because you yourself denounced them as opposition, that is, SYRIZA. That is why there is concern at the moment, because there is a veil on the horizon and no one knows what is going on. That's what people are worried about. We're talking about a thousand employees. We are talking about the port, one of the largest ports in the Mediterranean and the largest port in the country. That is why there is this concern. There's a FMYLE press release that mentions these things. They have received no answer, they do not know anything, they do not know anything and they expect you to give them an answer exactly what is going on, how you guarantee them. Thank you very much,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u64	Following on from all the more general points of view I put on my first speech, I move on to the most specific ones. Indeed, we are talking about a thousand and twenty-three employees at the Piraeus Port Agency, officials and port workers of various specialties. At the moment and not self-evidently, not easily, thanks to both the efforts of both the FMYLE and the Port Workers' Union and the administration of the PPA and the Government, the renewal of the two-year collective labour agreement was recently achieved in mid-2015 at the end of June 2015. Some people at the time wanted to prevent this. Government intervention was crucial, with its weapons and, of course, the claim of workers and the positive attitude of the PPA administration. It is currently in force for two years, demanding that this two-year collective labour agreement be renewed in the next period. It is certain that the port must operate under rules corresponding, at least, to the European labour acquis. The European acquis also requires a tank certification, requires specific terms and working conditions, requires collective labour contracts and everything else. The concession contract, which has been drawn up by the GOI and has posted it on the electronic platform, under which the competitive procedure has been referred to - the concession contract has then been drawn up and then the tender has been made, and at the moment there is a preferred investor - and in any event it is foreseen that all the provisions and requirements of the applicable laws and regulations on employment require the investor to comply with them and with collective labour agreements and employment relations and that it will ensure that health and safety standards at the workplace of the PPA are guaranteed. I agree with you that even the most good wording in a binding text, otherwise, depends on its application and not on the wording. So, in this direction social correlation can be of great importance, and there it always has to be open. We, as government, have promoted and achieved in the negotiations with the partners the establishment of a public port authority of Piraeus, and the proposal for the draft law is already ready. In these days, a process will begin - to go further into the public deposit of this bill - where this Port Authority for the Port of Piraeus will have - as is the case in all the ports of Europe and in many ports of the world - just the power and competence to supervise the implementation of all these contractual obligations of the investor and to intervene where they are being violated. So far this role, the role of the Port Authority, was played by the PPA - because the State had the majority of shares - while it was also a limited company listed on the stock market. It was not the best shape, but in any case, in this "ermaphrodite" way it worked. In any case, however, now, in the course of privatisation, the existence of an autonomous and autonomous Port Authority is necessary and will play its part. I would add that by a recent unanimous decision of the PPA Board of Directors on 2 March, which was communicated to us just the day before, on 15 March, the PPA Board of Directors, accepting a proposal from the trade unions, calls for a trialogue between the maritime, economic and labour ministries and the PPA and workers in relation to labour issues. I have already said that I accept this invitation and the other ministers will follow. All this, throughout this period, is being discussed with the workers. I, too, have met with the other co-legislators, both with the FMYLEE and with the Association of Technical and Manual Officers of the PPA, and with the Association of Monitors and Testers of Porters and with the Association of Supervisors of the PPA, as well as with the IDC delegation of the IDC. In any case, we have given the assurances of trying to secure labour rights. As a government, we seek, until the final employment contract is signed, another stage of consultation with the preferred investor so that all this can be clarified and the maximum possible safeguard. In any case, the dialogue is open. These issues have not been resolved. On the one hand, I obviously do not propose a reassurance, on the other, of a participation in a consultation of this kind. Significant improvements have already been achieved both in employment and on many other issues. The most famous is the issue of the Fertilisers and the exception of the coastline of the Fertilisers and the Fertilizers area in Drapetsona. And because there is a debate - and I am taking this opportunity today, with my presence in the House - on how long it is or is not the case, I would like to say that it is guaranteed. The extent of the fertilisers has been excluded. The process of performance in the public and then in the Municipality of Drapetsonas - Keratini has been opened. If there are - and there are - formal disputes as to what is the correct procedure to complete this phase, this does not mean that concession itself is in question or at risk, as is the case on the sea front of Patras, where the announcement by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is indeed being implemented. It was already launched, with a move that will be launched by the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of Patras, the concession of the sea front of Patras to the Municipality of Patras. All this is taking a step, in a systematic and very persistent manner and, of course, within the framework of the binding policies that our Government has undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the Municipal School of Armenia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Kalamaria High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. The Minutes of Friday 22 January 2016, Monday, 25 January 2016, Tuesday, 26 January 2016, Wednesday 27 January 2016 and Thursday 28 January 2016 (morning) have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u66	The minutes of Friday 22 January 2016, Monday 25 January 2016, Tuesday 26 January 2016, Wednesday 27 January 2016 and Thursday 28 January 2016 (morning) were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S1-commons.u67	With the agreement of the House at 11.18p. the sitting is closed for today, Thursday 17 March 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed to you.
