ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u1	Good morning and many years to everyone! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-4-2016, the minutes of its PRACT sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Monday, 25 April 2016, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the establishment and operation of a Joint Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We shall begin with the reference to the unchallenged topical questions. Therefore, the eleventh question under number 545/15-2-2016 is not discussed in the context of a topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EAW. The following questions will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first under number 813/21-4-2016, the first question of the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the "intervention of the Ministry in the selection contests of hundreds of doctors and four hundred nurses", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The cause is the workload. Also, for the same reason, the eighth is not discussed under number 794/18-4-2016 a topical question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister of Health regarding the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos. The first 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital, is not discussed due to the blockade of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The cause is misguided obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 6 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the harmonisation with the international regulations on the cycle of HEIs. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Culture and Sport about the use of the property in the area of Afontos Rhodes from the renovation of the archaeological site. 3. The Question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence on the problems of the refugee and migrant accommodation area in Scaramaga. 4. The Question No 819/25-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on late single applications for aid from farmers for the year 2015, the incorrect digitisation of agricultural parcels of growers integrated into agri-environment programmes and the problems created by the technical solution given in 2014 for the distribution of public eligible areas of pasture, the responsibility of the OPECE. 5. The Question under number 825/254-2016 by MP II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 8221/25-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the programme ‘Structural adjustment of small enterprises employing 20-49 people, within the economic crisis (PRODUCTION C)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Ilias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance regarding the schedule for payment of late public debts. 3. The 833/26-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the VW car scandal. 4. The Question dated 829/25/2016 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the old EUR 90 million debt on urban buses due to previous administrations. 5. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health about the needs of the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki. 6. The Question No 801/19-4-2016 by Piraeus II Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the removal of the titles from a hundred to twenty-three Greek families in the village of Dramads of Himara. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 797/18-4-2016 by MP B' Athens of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the risk of losing funding from the European Union financial institutions for the help of refugees. 8. The question by No 809/19-4-2016 of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the treatment of the immediate serious issues of the Rethymnon Police Directorate and the construction of a new Police Palace. 9. The Question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies of workers in the company "Industrial Facilities Metal constructions S.A. (BEMKE S.A.) which operates in Volos Second Industrial Area. 10. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by no. 1829/10-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 3694/3-3-2016 by Mr Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on pharmacy hours. Fourteen questions will be discussed here today - one as an exception - and one as a matter of urgency. So we begin with the second question by number 817/254/2016, first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the creation of Community Centres in all the municipalities of the country. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Wish many, health and power to all and especially good minds in the performance of our duty! Madam Minister, following on from the previous debate we have had here, because I am interested in the fundamental debate, I would ask you to discuss the question of how I - and I, by putting it in place - the great issue that has to do with the follow-up to the programmes and actions, but also the completion and enhancement of those which concern all the vulnerable groups, which deal with the issues of poverty-related support for the weak people, who are in need of the state. I am referring to the Community's centres, as they have been described by the law, which is a national programme, as it has been voted on. It is neither pilot nor individual nor any mayor's or regional authority's. It is a national programme, and in this sense it is universal, and the state is required to ensure it. The most important issue, however, is that while ensuring the continuation of the functions of many programmes and, obviously, of workers working in them, there is no corresponding guarantee for the structures for dealing with poverty. Efforts must be made, however, with specific initiatives, so that the ninety-nine workers in poverty-related structures are on track. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In view of the fact that you have confined yourself - I will take some time from my dentistry, Madam President - the structures, such as the Time Bank, the Municipal Vegetables, are not reinstated in the new programme because of the limited specialities required for the Community Centres and because they are not created in all municipalities, therefore, because of the number, work continuity is not guaranteed for these people. While workers in Roma centres - and quite rightly so - are provided for the automatic integration of functions as annexes with workers, and for immigrant centres there is provision for the automatic integration of functions with workers, for poverty structures is not mentioned and there is nothing specific. There's probably going to be a future. I believe that with this, which you have already announced on the molecules of recruitment, there must be a legislative initiative. Why? Because I have studied it and IASP adopts up to seven molecules per month with the existing regime, while due to the specialization, due to the urgent aim of the Community centres and the structures for tackling poverty, there must be a legislative initiative for additional molecules of these people so that they do not lose their jobs. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u4	Wait a minute, Madam President. Because I do not know exactly, I would like to ask you this. So don't count the time. Mr Kegeroglu asks another question from her, for which I was brought here to answer. I have no objections to answer what he says. His timely question, however, is whether I am convinced of my mistake, namely that I refused to accept that it had been decided and directed towards the creation of Community centres in two hundred and fifty municipalities with over ten thousand inhabitants. So if I am convinced of my mistake that I forbid the municipalities of less than ten thousand to enter the Community's programme and what I intend to do to create Community centres in all the municipalities of the country. That's what he was asking me, and that's why I came to answer. Today he's asking me something else. I really have no objection to answer anything else. But is that parliamentary control? Isn't this timely relying on the one I've got in my hands? It's based on another story? I don't know. Tell me what I'll do and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kegeroglu, do you give up this question? Because you developed another.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u6	I have not raised another question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u7	Why, is she, Mr. Kegeroglu? Can I read it again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u8	Answer me, and I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u9	Wait a minute, Madam President, tell me what to do. Because you see that the issues are being raised here, which are perhaps popular on the channels, but they are not about parliamentary control, as at least I am used to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u10	For the Community Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u11	It is customary in his prology for the Member to develop the question, which he has tabled and not to say another question, such as poverty structures. The question here is about the Community's centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u12	Is that another thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u13	This was not the case for the Member, to say whether or not I did or did not make a mistake, whether or not I gave false evidence last time. Ten days ago, it was the same question. And because there is a problem, I must, Madam President, understand what I am going to do and be within Parliament's limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u14	You should answer the timely question, regardless of whether the Member today invoked anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. I shall therefore reply to Mr Heraklion's timely question about the Community's centres, clarifying something very important to the Greek people in my view. The Community's Centres are an ESDP structure, i.e. they are financed by the European Union. As a structure like this, the previous governments, when planning the respective NSRs - such as the government that Mr Kegeroglu prevalent in the same position as I was - never designed such a structure for more than seventy municipalities. Never. What exactly did that mean to us? Given that the new ESDP is not like the previous ones and that the money is now in the districts and not in the government, as was the previous one, thirteen regional managers had to be persuaded to put money out of what they had to do to make Community centres. That took a lot of trouble. Two months we consulted the district managers, to convince them that this is an extremely important tool for the whole territory, for all poverty programmes, for all the social income programmes that we will do throughout Greece as of 1 January 2017. They had to be persuaded to establish them. Result: most have been convinced. Unfortunately, Mr Tatolis of the Peloponnese was not convinced and instead of twenty-six municipalities, we proposed to him, and to the municipalities that had bordered small towns, to do either movable units, as provided for in the law, or to raise the staff of the Community Centre of the largest municipality, to serve the smallest, as is available in the CYA and in the law that we voted, he refused to do so and instead of twenty-six did. On the contrary, other district officers also put small municipalities under ten thousand. So today we have eighteen smaller municipalities less than ten thousand, where Community centres will be set up. I say this, Madam President, because the previous government, but also all the right-wing governments and, above all, PASOK, when planning the NRP, designed them for very few municipalities, not more than 1/5. We designed it and implement it for more than 4/5 and cover the small municipalities from the largest and with a desire to do it at 5/5. That's a big difference. Do you know why, Madam President? Because that's how you were able to choose the municipalities you wanted, those who were politically close to you. This is how I insist to say that the money of the ESDP has been wasted. For the truth, in the previous NSRP, two hundred municipalities benefited from the NSRP programmes, two hundred municipalities as a whole. Do you know how many of them were? Six. Is that comparison now? On the whole of the NSRF, the previous two two municipalities benefited and many of them were involved, i.e. the total number is smaller. In the same municipality there were two and three structures. You understand. I'm telling you, two hundred. Of these, only six were there. So what is this relationship with the two hundred and fifty-four municipalities, which we together are eighteen small, when the country as a whole is three hundred and twenty-five municipalities? So, how much more can we do specs on inconsistent criteria? That is my answer to today's timely question. Of course, I'm going to continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Community's centres, as they have been legislated by this House, which, of course, we voted for and agreed on their necessity, even though it could be more comprehensive, should be financed from European, national and private resources. The Community's centres are now being legislated and the state should, by reason of the object, get away from the pilot that was probably operating in the previous years for the major cities, because, for example, the poverty-sharing structures were operating in large towns where the problem had been very intense. The problem now exists throughout the country, it is not just in the big cities. So the universal programme, as has been legislated, should the government guarantee it for all municipalities. Those who will join the PPPs, which for the first time become a decentralisation of eight hundred million funds in the regions, will be financed by the PPPs. Those municipalities that are not financed by the OPs must be financed from central resources either of the ESF or of the budget. This means universal application, because you may indeed want to connect it after your remorse that the guaranteed social income is necessary, as well as changing his name. Because, as soon as you came, you said 'we are opposed to this policy'. Eventually you dug it and come and say that from 1-1-2017 it will be applied throughout Greece, with a year and a half behind. But it doesn't matter. Having applied for all of Greece, the structures must also exist throughout Greece to support them, and these structures are the centres of the Community, in accordance with the law. You've made a DSA, which is against the law. For example, the law states that the municipalities, the local authorities of first-degree local authorities, are the municipalities, while in the CSR you made, you also put the legal persons of the municipalities and municipal legal entities governed by public law and public utilities. I do not disagree with that, but the law needs amendment, because they will not be paid again - do not laugh - and you will say that we need to make a legislative arrangement to force the Commissioner to pay. If you do not legislate well and do not make ministerial decisions under the laws! Apart from that, you come with a letter in common with Mr Haritsis to the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Patoulis, which I shall present in the Minutes - and you speak of two hundred fifty Community centres. You come to a press conference, which you gave with Mr Haritsis, and you say the same thing, at the General Assembly of the CEDEFOP, you mention the same - I will submit it in the Minutes - and then you tell me that for all the municipalities you have foreseen it. Unfortunately, the limited number of you started it in your letter of 16 January, referring to fifteen Community centres. If you have changed your mind - that is what we are asking you - you must say that those who do not join the COPs will be financed by the centre. And at last take note of the Constitution. Especially for island and mountain municipalities, which happen to be the municipalities below ten thousand, there is a requirement from the Constitution, - it is not an exception - positive exception, which must be established in them. That is the requirement of Article 101 of the Constitution. We have to understand that. Another is an individual pilot program and another universal program. To conclude, because you are committed that some nine hundred workers left by the thousands - perhaps fewer now - will join the poverty structures of some in the Community centres and others in the other structures, you must - and let me not answer today - consider ensuring that people have this employment continuity. That is what the guide, which I will also present in the Minutes, does, because it is a new development on the subject of the Community centres which we are discussing and which came out on 28 April. It says that for Roma people, functions and staff are transported and integrated, for immigrants, functions and staff are also included - and good. So say, for poverty structures, that functions and staff are integrated or, in any case, that they are mobilised, as you have committed. But be careful. The moleculosis needs special legislation, which you must bring to the House. So I testify to the Minutes and the driver, who doesn't mention many of the structures that operate today,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u19	...to see him if you haven't seen him,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u20	They're really laughing here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u21	You're laughing, you're laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u22	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu. You said you'd also cover the time of your dentistry and you've reached six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u23	You know, as you laugh now, many others may laugh. But some people will cry. That is why I would ask you to feel what you have as your responsibility and responsibility for the ninety workers in these structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u24	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u25	You need to take responsibility and ensure the working continuity of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u26	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegeroglu, excuse me, indeed when I said "here they laugh" in your observation if I've seen the driver. I can explain to you that it seems strange that the Minister has been working with ECHCR all this time and with all his political staff and with the entire Ministry to create this driver. I know every word of the driver, Mr. Kegeroglu, because he's been written out of our hands. In this sense, forgive me this phrase 'here they laugh'. Not only have we written it with our hands, but we also brought before Easter holidays all the district managers in Athens together with all the PENs, that is, the regional councils of the municipalities, of each region. We brought them to the Ministry. We explained to them that guide. We answered questions. We have explained to them that we will help them with the technical bulletins so that they do not need the scholars, who were paid each time by the municipalities concerned, who received the information in time for the programmes so that they can be competitive. We want all the municipalities to know about it. All the material goes to all the municipalities, Mr. Kegeroglu. A huge effort is being made at the moment so that all municipalities can get into the NSRF on an equal footing. Poverty structures, in fact, have now been a friendly topic in the media. Only today the people who are in poverty structures have realised that the problem was not the Fotius, but the district managers. As many Community structures and centres could open up...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Fotou, they're five months unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u29	Let me finish. I don't have you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Kegeroglu, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u31	I'm saying they're five months unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u32	First of all, dialogue is not allowed. You know that. You've been a congressman for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u33	It's a supplement to what I'm saying. They're five months unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u34	May I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u35	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u36	Listen, we have ensured and discussed with workers in poverty structures, because their work continuity is ensured. In what sense is it guaranteed? As you know, the Community centres for their large majority - in these two hundred sixty, seventy, what eventually end up in the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities of the country - are financed by the NSRF. In the NSRP, staff shall not be recruited following the previous one unless the previous programme continues in the new period. The Community Centres are a new institution and a new institution will follow these procedures required by the NSRP. In other words, recruitment will be carried out under procedures that the AACC will not do - and here the Member does not know - and he insists that we have made a mistake - but with procedures like the AACC. So all the laws of the AACC will be maintained, but they will not be made by the AACC, they will be made by the municipalities. In this sense, the moleculosis we have done is legal - we have examined it - and of course it brings all those who have experienced in poverty structures higher than the moleculosis of the unemployed, because that is what it was about, to be able to take priority. Well, you don't have to. They are about eight hundred, nine hundred people working in poverty structures. They are very nice people, but they have been deceived very much all this time and by the media and by the MPs of the New Democracy and PASOK etc., telling them various things. They're very well aware of what's going on. We are the only ones who have secured funding from state money by 30 June, by the time of 30 June, that is to say, that they will enter the tendering procedures to understand the positions of community centres or continuing poverty structures as they continue. Because the programme - as you know, too, well and hide - has been evaluated, Mr Kegeroglu, and the vegetables and the time banks have been rejected in the evaluation. They were thought to have worked only little. That is why some of the structures are continuing. Anyway, it doesn't matter. You give me this good opportunity to inform the world. We've got the Ministry doors open. Anyone who wants - without intermediaries - to come and tell us the problem. We, with great interest, want to solve the problem and we want to help the municipalities regardless of party origin, and that is clear to the Greek people, because the Greek people know that of the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities, it is a question which one might say is friendly to SYRIZA to be twenty-five. That is why - and not just - we are beinghaved when we say something. So we don't do anyone's favors. We have uniform measures, uniform rules. We are very interested in society to enjoy these few measures on an equal footing and not 'Barba to Koroni', as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u37	First of all, I call on the honourable Members and the main ministers to keep track of the time. Fourteen questions will be discussed and we will be going late at noon if we break time. We will now discuss the third question by number 818/25-2016, first question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Rural Development and the Food and Environment, on the problem of water shortages in Chania. Mr Evangelos Apostolos will answer the timely question by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Happy birthday to everyone and everyone. Minister, for another year and even to a much larger extent than ever, even since 2010 and 2014, small and medium-sized farmers and the whole people of Chania are facing the problem of water shortages. In fact, this year's winter passed with few rains all over Crete. It is perhaps considered the most anhydrous winter in the last 100 years. This testifies to the data recorded by the stations of the Department of Water of the Decentralised Administration of Crete in most areas of the island and of course the weather stations of the National Observatory of Athens. I shall submit these particulars in the Minutes. However, while Chania is considered to be one of the highest prefectures of rainfall in Greece and could have solved the problem of water scarcity by building the Tauronite basin dam, Sembroiotis, Papadianes and at very low costs due to altitude, this problem tends to become permanent. There was a study in 1992 which predicted a storage of sixty-five million cubic metres of water. It was announced by Prime Ministers, Ministers. Nothing's happened at all. The study was sent in 2005 to the Western Crete Development Agency for updating and seeking funding. It has never been part of a financial programme of the then IV programme. In the meantime, more than a million cubic metres of water have come to sea every year because of the lack of the necessary infrastructure, although many of these necessary studies have been available for decades. If the Tavronite dam is not constructed, the problem of water shortage in Chania is not solved. At the same time, of course, the farmers of the county are facing a great problem in irrigating their crops especially in Chrysoskalitissa, in the villages, i.e. the former Municipality of Oinochori in the region of Elafonissos, where this is one of the most productive areas with greenhouses, which require sufficient and, indeed, specific irrigation. So while two lakes - Saints Theodoros and Chrysoskalitissa - had been built by the Ministry of Agriculture in the 1990s - the first - of Saints Theodoros was subsidence, thus losing all the water stored, at least a thousand acres of horticulture and tens of thousands of olive trees. It can reoperate, but leaks must be dealt with, because the soil that has been done was not suitable. This study, of course, must be carried out by the Ministry of Rural Development. The second one - the Chrysoskalitis - has never worked, although it cost five million euros because of abuses. Finally, there is one question - because we had asked a corresponding question in 2014 and then the Minister had answered us that there is a restoration study and that it was sent to the Region of Crete in order to revise the environmental conditions - there is one issue. So, what's the matter? How does it work out? Where will it be financed? It was financed from Community resources. Can't he be financed again? Give us an answer. From the Public Investment Program? From the state budget? Specific answers must be given. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that there is a need to build the Platanian lake with a capacity of seven hundred and fifty thousand cubic cubic. There is a problem of overindulgence, with the risk of destroying thousands of acres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Synthraki, finish it up. Just a minute ago, I made the appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Madam President. I repeat, there is a problem of overindulgence, with the risk of thousands of acres being destroyed and of high productivity land being destroyed. Others, of course, like the Asquifus lake, come out for drilling in Meskla, the high-growth irrigation zone of Agias - Kolymbari that will give breath to farmers. Water supply and irrigation problems are also facing the northeastern Apokoron. Although it's rich in water, people drink bottled water. In fact, Mr. Minister, there is a lake in Chania, the one in Kouturas, from the six lakes which either were built or are in progress or which will be built etc. So these projects are not being implemented as a result of the anti-popular political governments of the European Union, your own government. You know that not all of this is eligible by the European Union. The First, Second, Third Community Support Framework, the ESDP, now the Partnership Agreement, Juncker Programmes, etc. Where are all this money going, if not in infrastructure projects that will actually give breath to the inhabitants? All this, of course, is to be added to the degrading prices of agricultural products, to the towel of subsidies, etc. So, Minister, it's a matter of what you do. Will you take measures for a definitive solution to the problem of water shortages for the Chrysoskalitissas and Saints Theodoros lakes, for all that I mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Synthraki, you have covered the second. You won't talk. I'm telling you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u42	I would like clear and concrete answers. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u43	Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u44	Dear colleague, you have raised a lot of issues. Where we have to stand, it's in the irrigation needs of the country, how much more of Crete is known and it's a big issue we have to deal with. That is why we are planning to carry out a number of safeguard projects, as, of course, studies throughout the country are being carried out. They concern, in particular, the storage of surface water and the improvement of existing guarantee infrastructures and are implemented within the framework of the Public Investment Programme through Community and national resources. In particular, with regard to the work to restore the functionality of the Chrysoskalitissa in Chania, we know that a budget study of 150 thousand euros has already been financed and this study has been completed. Indeed, knowing and seriousness of the problem arising from the damage to the lake, we have included in the project budget and the restoration of damage, as is proposed in this study. Therefore, looking at the current data which is the rehabilitation study of the lake, as well as of course the infrastructure of this tank because it is better placed, I would say, in relation to that of Saints Theodoros, that we are currently proposing that the capacity of the five hundred thousand cubic metres of water of the Chrysoskalitissa lake should be fully restored, which will cover, as far as possible, the irrigation needs of the area. As far as project funding is concerned, this - like the other projects proposed - will be evaluated and investigated according to the requirements of the new Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, which has already started to be activated. We therefore believe that if the specific measures for the restoration of the lake are implemented and tested in time, then we will be able to deal with the same or similar measures and the lake of the Saints Theodoros, thus reducing expenditure and the implementation time. Also for Chania Prefecture, the study of dams and lakes has been prepared and approved. From the proposed positions of the above study, the final studies have been carried out without, of course, building the projects concerned with two lakes and three dams on the Tavronite River. We have, as you know, sent - you have also mentioned - the whole of these studies to the Development Agency of Crete. We sent it to explore the possibility of funding. It doesn't seem like that. We shall now see from our side through the Rural Development Programme, since - as you have said, we accept - the region has a serious problem, how to deal with this particular case. Let us not forget that, in essence, the resources currently in existence are from the Rural Development Programme. So you realise that we will try to involve ourselves from the Public Investment Programme in order to implement these projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Synthraki, why did you speak for six minutes three times a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u46	Excuse me, but the previous one lasted over 20 minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u47	There's no precedent and next. It's been three quarters and we're in the second question. For God's sake. Looks like we've rested a lot...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u48	To me, will you bear all the burdens of the previous delay and circumvention of time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u49	Come on, Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor. Please, I'll interrupt you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u50	Please allow me. A lot of things have been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u51	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u52	A little - very little, Mr Minister, this has been said by previous ministers in relation to the studies that they have been sent to the Crete Development Agency, that we will look through programmes to see what is going to happen with the Public Investment Programme, etc. But that's not how it works. We fear that you, too, will join the army of ministers and Prime Ministers who have arrived, who have finally reached zero, zero, and that is the reality. The question is, why have these projects not been carried out for years? Is there an ignorance of the needs of the area? Is there a shortage of water resources in Chania, Crete, all over the country? Because the issue of water shortages is not just about Chania, Crete. It is a phenomenon that concerns the whole of the country. The truth is that scientific answers have been given for all of these, and they have been analysed for decades. The construction of such works, Minister, can make a decisive contribution to ensuring the necessary water supplies for the residents of the county with controlled, quality, cheap water and, of course, to increasing irrigation of the poorly irrigated areas today. The irrigated areas should be increased to support domestic and rural, industrial, manufacturing, food, restructuring, new crops, avocado crops, livestock. The specific area we are discussing is a dynamic area. Naturally, this will also protect the environment, public health, and the ecosystems will be built up. The real cause, the real guilty person, rather than the hurdle that is not taking place - as is not the case with fire protection, anti-military armour, anti-military protection - is the strategic choices of the ruling class and the European Union itself, the capitalist development path chosen and which your own government, of course, embraces and implements in the best possible way. Because big capital is not interested in real people's needs, but what projects will be done and what infrastructure, based on the priorities it puts on every occasion. The Community's 2000 framework directive, with which our own legislation has been harmonized, is in line with this, namely to strengthen the large capital with projects which are of fundamental interest and, of course, to increase the invoicing of water. Because what the European Union is seeking is to reduce demand through increased water tariffs and not real projects. To conclude, I would like to say - and I thank you very much, Madam President - that what the people really need today is that there should be a single state body - as proposed by the JRC - which can manage water with socially integrated means of production, centrally designed at regional and local level. This single state body will also be able to exploit the results of scientific research. Thank God, in the Prefecture of Chania there is both the polytechnic and the TEI of Crete, the Institute of Subtropicals and Olives, the MOH. And all this, of course, is at odds with it, that is to say it is on the reverse of privatization of water and sewerage services. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u53	The Minister has the floor, Mr Apostolos, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Comrade, why don't these projects take place? Ask those who had been responsible for so many years and did not do these works. We have in front of us a specific Programme for Rural Development, with which you may of course disagree, because it is financed by the European Commission, the European Union, but that is the reality. For the Rural Development Programme, there are 4.7 billion people, where, together with national resources, there are no more than 7 billion people. That's what we have, and that's what we're gonna use. I already told you we've been in the process. We expect studies, especially on this programme, on land improvements. It is the measure ‘4.3.1’. So when all these studies are gathered - a real recognition of the needs for specific areas such as Crete, to deal with water shortages - we will try to incorporate what is ripe in this measure so that we can finance them. There's no other way. I think that this thing has been understood by everyone, and that is why we aim to use these resources as best as possible. From there on, our approach to matters relating to rural policies and all that you have said, perhaps we will discuss them again. The differences we have are familiar with are known. In fact, however, we have a duty to serve the rural area in certain situations, and that is what we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will announce an absence permit. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Kostas Koukodimos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons between 13 and 16 May 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u56	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The next two questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. First we will discuss the fourth question under number 816/254/2016, first question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the ‘loss of the regulation of 100 instalments due to the failure to inform the debtors of the new amount of the instalment after the increase of the interest rate and the unilateral reduction of the amount of the instalment paid by the debtors in the settlement bank account’. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with the arrangements of the n. 4321/2015 entitled ‘Agreements on the relaunching of the economy’ – a legislation of particular importance to SYRIZA - ANEL governance - sought the collection of late payments to the State, but also the favourable payment and treatment of thousands of debtors. This law was particularly warmly dealt with by thousands of debtors. A lot of people joined the regulation and served their debts to the public and the insurance funds. Many of them lost their own self-adjustment due to a lack of payment. There are, however, several of our fellow citizens, Minister, who have lost their right to regulation by the banking institutions, without any responsibility. I'm kind of explaining myself. The increase unilaterally from 3% to 5% increased the setting dose, the new dose - which the debtors have never known - thereby losing control of. Also, many banks charge the specific bill, which was paid to the public, with the result, for an amount of five euros - exactly as I say to you - that the debtor should lose the hundred-dollar adjustment, due to the purely to the credit institutions. In view of all this, and considering that this legislation is very important and reassuring for thousands of debtors, ask what you intend to do in consultation with the Association of Greek Banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Red, for keeping time. Mr Alexiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u59	Mr Pinheiro, you once again raise a very important issue concerning taxpayers. This is where I want to clarify the issues of competence in your question, so I can get in right after the point. As far as the issue of banks is concerned, that is how banks interpret the first or second circular or the law or what charges they do, I am not responsible. We know this, because we have complaints to the Treasury, but the costs and commissions charged by banks are the responsibility of another Minister and you must address them. I have to answer the question of the loss of regulation where, quite rightly, you say that there is one problem, and many times this is created, while it has come out of the Ministry of Finance and it regulates the whole issue. As you quite rightly said, with the hundred-dollar law, and despite the attack at the time, and what we have heard, a great problem has been solved for the citizens. The increase in interest rate from 3% to 5.05%, which we had to bring with n. 4336, he created the problem. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance with a circular that came out from 9-10-2015, the circular POL 1226, gave a very clear direction. I shall submit to the minutes and the circular and the relevant document of the Directorate for Receipts of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue. The increase from 3% to 5.05% was calculated for the remaining regulated debt that existed on 15-10-2015, i.e. after two months of the publication of the law, precisely to provide sufficient time for taxpayers to be informed. Also, exceptionally, debts of up to EUR 5,000, which had been subject to the arrangement, were still not charged with surcharges, late payment interest, etc., since the three conditions which benefited and protected the financially impossible were met. With the n. 4336 also, as you know, a new reason for losing regulation has been added, if the taxpayer had not repaid all his outstanding unregulated debts, he has not subjected all his dues to partial payment, or has no recovery status for his unregulated unregulated debts. In this circular, therefore, in order to address precisely the problems of inadvertent non-payment of a dose rate for reasons of good administrative and reasonable confidence of the manager, it was foreseen that the loss of the regulation does not occur when the taxpayer has not paid the late payment, or in general because of small amounts, which have been unpaid for inadvertently. I shall conclude, Madam President. In fact, instructions were given to the Heads of Service so that the incorrect amounts of unpaid payments are covered by the taxpayer and that the arrangements are not considered to be lost. As I have said, in the Minutes, the circular concerned and the document in question. It's probably been wrong in some cases. This issue needs to be regulated and dealt with by the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Red has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u61	I was covered by the Minister, if this circular is in force now, that is to say if those who have lost the regulation today, those who have come out of the system, are using the circular to reincorporate it, of course, by paying the extra sums, due to the increase in interest rates - in the 100-dollar system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u62	Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Madam President. That's very clear. Circular is specific. If one - without the taxpayer being responsible, and although the law and the circular were clear - came out of regulation, it must address his own tax office and, if there is a problem, in communication to resolve these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, for the abbreviation of the debate. The fifth will now be discussed under number 812/19-4-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, the Minister of Finance, on the risk of non-profit survival of the non-profit organisation "The Smile of the Child". Mr. Saridis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u65	First of all, I would like to wish everyone and everyone in this Chamber a great deal for years. Mr Minister, we have discussed this in the past. The question is very simple, but with a lot of substance within it. What is the government's prediction of the future of children who supports the child's "Smiling" in this event of being closed due to weakness? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u66	Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u67	Mr Colleagues, this is a matter for the Ministry of Finance, in terms of tax in part, because the great responsibility lies with the ministries responsible for financing these agencies. It is really one of the most difficult times when I am forced as a Minister of Finance to manage or answer issues such as the "Smiling of the Child" or the "Kivotos" because these bodies offer society an amazing work and it is really very difficult to ask such questions about those bodies, who should have the full support, but unfortunately the financial conditions do not allow us to do what we had to do. I will submit the relevant documents, but I would like to inform you of the following. With regard to “the Smile of the Child” in the matter of taxation, and more generally for legal persons of this nature, there is an exemption for property that they use exclusively for the purposes of fulfilling, with special tax treatment, when calculating the additional ENPY. Let me remind you that the additional ENVIRONMENT is calculated by 2.5 % of the value of the rights that they do not own. They also have a more favourable tax on income tax. A lot of their revenues are exempted from taxation when this revenue relates to the performance of their purpose. Of course, the revenues that are from commercial activity or other activity, which have nothing to do with the pursuit of their purpose, are not exempt, despite the use of these revenues to meet their objectives. In other words, if they have any business or other property sale etc., there is no tax exemption. That is, unfortunately, the problem with regard to taxation. In relation to the other issues you have raised, and despite the fact that the Minister is here - I have the relevant documents and will inform you - as the services of the Ministry of Labour have informed us from the Department of Family Protection, there we have a contract between the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, in cooperation with the National Centre for Social Solidarity, which has signed two programming contracts with the "Smile of the Child" for the operation of two hostels, one in Karea and one in Phoenicia Thessaloniki. They're about thirty kids in every body in every room. The Ministry of Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the basis of its contract, undertakes the financing of the association with the amount of EUR 50,000, every six months, for each hostel. This is the obligation of the Ministry of Labour. Also in his paper, the Ministry of Finance informs that from the revenues of the new year's lottery it has been funded "The Smile of the Child", between 2009 and 2013, with the total amount of 634,000 euros. This is, unfortunately, the reality. I wish we could say something more or help these bodies, but on the basis of the financial data, that is what we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Saridis, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u69	Yes, of course. I will thank the Minister for his answer. The question came, essentially, as a follow-up to a question I had asked at the Ministry about the inability to pay HISPIA on the part of the "Smile of the Child". The truth is, Minister, that you are using numbers, you are doing things, but I do not know whether it is certain that the numbers you are using and the actions you are doing will help the lives of Greek citizens in the future. But I'm going to tell you some numbers right now, which I've taken through "the Smile of the Child". With a lot of love, I'll tell you these numbers. These numbers, you know, give life and good will to your side, the Greek state would be to look at giving everything that may be done to these bodies that make up for the gap of the Greek state. Two hundred and seventy-two thousand calls on the SOS national telephone line 1056. Forty thousand calls for special children's issues. Nine hundred eighty-eight complaints for a total of one thousand nine hundred seventy-five children. One hundred and twenty-eight hosting requests. Advisory support of nine hundred and twenty-four children and adults. One hundred and forty of a serious incident. Providing preventive medical examinations to fifteen thousand children. Minister, three hundred seventy-seven children are currently hosted in the structures of the "Smile of the Child". Fifty-three children are also hosted - they are adult, but they continue to support 'The Smile of the Child'. "The Smile of the Child" is a conquest of the Greek society and a healthy organism must remain, since it substantially replaces the void of the Greek state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u70	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u71	First of all, let me say that I will submit in the minutes the document of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security from the Social Protection Department, the document from the General Secretariat of Public Revenues from the Capital Tax Application and the document from the Directorate-General for Information Systems from the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, which provide detailed information, so that I do not waste time answering these issues at all. Mr Colleagues, I agree with you on the findings. I wish we could do more. Unfortunately, the budgetary conditions only require us to do this. And we are not happy, when we are forced, with such institutions of solidarity and offering to charge them, even with the minimum tax obligation. It is clear that we are trying to do everything possible in this context to make it easier for these bodies, but unfortunately the frameworks are concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u72	The next two questions will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. The first question is Mrs Christophilopoulou. I don't see her here. We will join Mr Katsotis. The fourth question, then, under number 793/18-4-2016, will be discussed in the context of a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the safeguarding of all workers' working and insurance rights at the "ELECTRONIC ATHENS". Mr. Katsotis, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as it is well known, the company "ELECTRONIC ATHENS", due to the capitalist crisis and the competition of business groups, proceeded to the bankruptcy procedure and on 13-4-2016 the Athens Multifaced Court of First Instance accepted it. Over forty-six stores in Greece have been closed, with four hundred and fifty employees being "in the air". Workers report that the company has been stirring up this development throughout the past period, after closing shops, giving forced leave to employees, redundant, etc., a plan that it had been carrying out, keeping workers themselves in the dark. The company over the years of its operation accumulated profits with the intensity of the workforce's exploitation. He imposed wage cuts and reached the point where he asked workers to offer a one-month wage to contribute to the company's development. It is also clear from this case that who closes the business and why. Minister, like the previous ones, the Government, with its policy, protects the profitability and competitiveness of enterprises, with all the anti-legislative framework it maintains, but also with the It limits workers' rights, such as compensation, in relation to those of the other creditors of the company, but also affects workers, by referring them to the various poorly paid voucher programmes and by urging them to claim their claims for legal compensation. Two scheduled tripartite meetings, the businessman didn't come. No other information has been made to workers and much more has been committed to their compensation and to guaranteeing their occupational and insurance rights, of course resulting from their contracts. As you know, the non-disclosure of contracts creates many problems and the government must address the matter immediately. In addition to non-payment of compensation, workers cannot be registered with the OAED in order to receive the gross unemployment benefit they are entitled to. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With the question about ELECTRONIC ATHENS, we want you to answer the question we raise. Specifically, what steps will you take to ensure that all workers' working and insurance rights are met, that their allowances, with priority over the claims of the banks and the general public by the company, are included in the Unemployment Fund for the whole period of unemployment and that there is direct support for them by means of an emergency allowance. That is what we are waiting for, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u75	Mr Colleague, first of all, many years. Happy birthday to everyone in this House. This is indeed a very serious issue. It was because of the seriousness and we invited the company on several occasions - as you mentioned - to tripartite meetings at the Ministry of Labour and when it was announced surprisingly, following the paradoxical tactics of the company's management not to come to these meetings, I was in person present at the meeting held at the Ministry of Labour with the employees, to see the next steps. Of course, we will, as always in these cases, be on the side of the workers. We will consider, for example, whether they could have this exceptional aid, the exceptional allowance, which you are asking for, from the Globalisation Fund. As I have repeatedly said to questions from the Communist Party, however, the legal tools that the Ministry of Labour has in a capitalist economy are finite. You are right to ask us what we are doing to strengthen the arsenal available to workers. As you will know, in the Insurance Reform Act under discussion we have included a provision that, contrary to what has happened so far, the shareholders of public limited companies, such as this one, since they have shares of more than 10% of the total share structure, will henceforth also be liable to their property not only for the debts of insurance funds, but also for debts to their employees, so that there is no phenomenon - often in the past - to have bankrupt businesses and wealthy entrepreneurs. From now on they will be in their responsibility and we will obviously continue to be against the working jungle - as you are - and to help the workers' struggles in every way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you are talking about legal tools that are finite and that you are doing everything you can to strengthen an arsenal more modern in order to be able to deal with such cases. But, Minister, I would like to remind you that last year the Government voted for you, in the context of the new draft of the Code of Civil Procedure, a regulation by which workers enter a worse order than the one they had so far for the payment of their wages, their allowances and, of course, what they claimed from the employer, in the context of bankruptcys. Many businesses, if you wish, follow this path, because this framework facilitates them, strengthens them, does not lose anyway, they even gain from such a process. So, on the other hand, there is this code that you have changed and made it worse and harder for workers, Minister. So your responsibility here is great. It is apparent from this change that you too prefer the facilitation of business groups to be blocked or, in any case, you prefer banks with a mortgage first and foremost. In fact, 65% go to them and 25% go to workers, public and other bodies. So here I think you should take responsibility. This aspect of the Code of Civil Procedure also needs to be changed, apart from what you say it can protect. We believe that, of course, the shareholders must also be responsible, but not to pursue such a course in which businesses and entrepreneurs are going to have a party with employees' employees, with compensation that they do not pay in a number of other respects, which all this operation of the bankruptcy code and the Code of Civil Procedure. Minister, we believe that immediately measures need to be taken to ensure that workers are written to OAS without the complaint, by a ministerial decision. It's an arrangement. That can't stay that way. An amount must be paid directly to the workers. Workers are effectively fired and are not registered with the OAED. What should you do to make another decision so that they can be entitled to unemployment benefit? This needs to be addressed. It is still one of the tools that you, if you will, have to deal directly with, Minister, perhaps with this bill so that it can have retroactive effect for workers. It cannot be made redundant four hundred fifty workers, having so much employment and saying that they cannot be written because they do not have the complaint of the employer who has not done it. We therefore consider that the government should immediately take its responsibilities, deal with the problem created in this case by the OAED, so that workers can at least be written to the fund, beyond the other issues of compensation, which we say the government should take responsibility, change the Code of Civil Procedure and the workers can be entitled to their entitlement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, you are obviously right that this change in the Code of Civil Procedure, which gives a head start to the demands of the banks against the workers' demands, is not a good development. And it's one of the neoliberal choices of the memorials that we were imposed on us and we were unable to prevent. But, as I have said in the past to such questions, we are trying to achieve these neoliberal peaks that we have not been able to prevent them from being in the memorandum and being implemented, to inactivate them with other measures that are completely opposite in direction and perspective that we are introducing. It is precisely the provision of the bill, by which the owners of the companies that are bankrupt are now burdened with their own property, are in this direction and are intended to equip them, to shield the employees, possibly more efficiently than the old system of the Code of Civil Procedure. For the simple reason, as you know, bad businessmen usually do, I am not talking about all of them, there is nothing at the end to satisfy workers, even if there are no mortgages in the past or demands from other privileged lenders. On the question now of the immediate assistance of workers, I understand the problem and we really need to find a solution. It is not, however, a ministerial decision to proceed with the payment of the allowance, for the simple reason that it does not have a legal basis for the adoption of such a Ministerial Decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u80	Subscribing to the OAED as unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u81	Deal. I understand the problem, what happens when it is a workman retreat and the complaint of his employment relationship has not been notified to him. On the other hand, however, registration in the OAED takes place when there is no employment relationship, and on the other hand, since there has been no complaint, the employment relationship remains active. So what I am saying is that we are going to deal with these in a general way, with a legislative arrangement which should also be discussed with you and with the other parties in this House, because we really have to deal with such an issue, but not with ad hoc, but not with a single operation. It is an issue that we need to see globally so that we can resolve it in a general, uniform way for the future as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "GREETHIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-two members of the Parents and Gardens Association of the 2nd Elementary School of the Beach of Stavros Thessaloniki, as well as sixteen students and students of it. The House welcomes you and wishes you Happy Happy Years. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The process you are monitoring is parliamentary scrutiny, during which Members ask the ministers, and that is why there is not much participation. The second question will be discussed under number 815/224/2016, the second question of the Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Happy birthday, too. I would like to begin by listening a little to the statement made by the Minister to help the other parties. In view of the fact that, Minister, disinvestment continues and that more and more armies of unemployed people from close-ups exist in your days - I am not saying it, the market says so, the social partners - it would be good to see the possibilities offered by the existing regulations on threatened work and on this point to build some kind of defence, because I fully understand that it is not possible for someone who has not been convicted of having an unemployment benefit. In this regard, Minister, I could consider many issues for which your Government could be blamed by the opposition that we are. I could think about what I said, that the private economy has been demonised, that there is over-taxation, that there is party decommissioning of the state, that - we will see it in committee in a short time - you are cutting off the ESS, abolishing the ESS in a few years, cutting pensions, single and other. What I could not imagine, however, Minister, is that I would ask you, and especially you, for your professional and political life, which you have built on employment rights, on abusive redundancies and illegality - I think - by a donor of your government. In this respect, this concerns the Hellenic Defence Systems where six workers were made redundant. They weren't good in command. Model Poliaki - Ministry of Health - CARBON? So, whoever's not in line with the suggestions, we're cutting off his head? Indeed, Minister, this is how it happened. There were complaints and, indeed, one of the workers had the nerve - listen, listen - to bring an action before she was fired in the labour inspectorate under your supervision and to denounce the unilaterally damaging change in her working conditions. Retrospectively, this worker, like another five colleagues, has been released. Before that - because it was not accidental - three legal advisers, too, had been fired. I wonder, Minister, why the regulation was not complied with and why the disciplinary procedure was not followed. You'll tell me you're not the man responsible, you don't have to oversee NSAs. You are, however, the Minister for Labour, but you are the one responsible for seeing how you can control it, either through the Labour Inspectorate or through the attempt to reconcile it that I know has been, but which unfortunately did not work. I can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u85	Happy birthday, colleague. For the overall political framework simply to say, we did not create the customer state in Greece, nor are we the ones that created party armies within public administration and public enterprises. On this issue, because we need to talk specifically about being able to and judge ourselves, because the general theoretical discussions are easy, first of all, to tell you that the work inspection is today and tomorrow on the basis of its planning, the complaints of workers, so I think there was one on your part, at least as far as the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour are concerned. It would be reasonable to conclude the procedure first and if you thought that we had some oligopoly or uncertainty in the development of our responsibilities for parliamentary criticism. Also, it is not accurate that the tripartite meetings have not been awarded. Because of these tripartite meetings we have a reply on 5 April of the company's board of directors - and to be precise to the CEO - which says that in the light of the discussions that have taken place, one of the workers' redundancies will be re-examined and a subsequent document of the President of the board of directors - which I also present - which says that the withdrawal of one of the detainees has been decided. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is obviously not my role to see whether or not there were any violations of labour law. That is why there are the bodies of the work inspection that will be decided. What I can tell you is that, contrary to what has been happening in the past, the administration that we recommended to control redundancies, came to the tripartite meetings, will be present at the EIC's attempt to find both the legal and the realities of the case and in view of these, and I think that you are not right in your criticism that the responsibilities have not been exercised or that we, too, continue horrendous past practices made by the client system that governs all these decades in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u87	Minister, no study! I would remind you that when the redundancies took place in February, the timely question was immediately tabled. And because the lawyers' strike was offended, you asked me to discuss it immediately afterwards. Now it's been too long. What I'm going to ask you is this: since February of the complaint, why now is the EIA looking at? Why didn't he examine the APRC since February, since you did have the complaint? I know - as you know - that for one employee, who has denounced the harmful change and retrospectively released, there has been the management board procedure for withdrawal of dismissal. However, this has not yet been formalised or cleaned up. I ask you: is this an attempt by the administration to throw ash in the eyes for other workers? I'm saying there's a regulation again. Why does the regulation not apply? I will come back to you, Minister, after you said that today the debate has begun. However, this story should have started since February, as soon as the complaint has been made. And another thing: Today the Hellenic Defence Systems are going without a plan, without an operational plan. The Greek Defence Systems, for which by intervention of the then Minister, Mr Gennimata, had also become a plan and consultation with the institutions, creditors, the troika - tell them as you wish - so that there can also be fiscal and insurance information for the company and the settlement of debts and the possibility through this plan of voluntary exit and the possibility of this defence industry being sustainable, which is very important for the defence of the country, could be operated under conditions that we set them at the time. So I want to tell you, by transferring the complaint, not only to the employees of the company but also to the trade unions, that you need to know that the way the company goes, we will go to the locks, because the administration donor only wants to fire those who didn't like it and do nothing. The company is still in debt, has no insurance information, has abandoned the program, as much more has been abandoned. I mean, you didn't even have the opportunity to go on with it. So you will have other redundancies in your hands. And I anticipate this, Minister - I hope it will not happen - but for a year and a half you have done nothing as a government for the Hellenic Defence Systems and tomorrow we will have a big problem. The workers are fighting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Madam President, by saying that answer me to the first question, if this is not a practice of intimidation, to hire one, one, if it is a good boy, why don't you tell the Minister responsible, Mr Vitsa or Mr Kammenos, to intervene in the administration so that all redundancies can be commenced properly? To start the disciplinary process, to show, in other words, a good faith as a government to the people you fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u89	My colleague, I really don't understand the subject of the question. First - First, what do you mean by donor command? Was the administration elected for your day, and now, on our day, is it appointed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u90	I didn't say that. On this point, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u91	No, it's not on the point at all. The administrations are defined. There's legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u92	I didn't say that. Minister, I said donor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u93	It's just because you're used to not operating in the context of legality, but in the context of patronage, that's why you don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u94	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u95	I'm not talking to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u96	Are you saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u97	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u98	Just think about it. I've been nice to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u99	So I'm telling you that patronage was not just about hiring. The NSA will only hire through an AAP, which was not the case in the past. But patronage is not about the way the world is recruited. The patronage also concerns the protection of those who do not work, those who are appointed because they have barbas in Koroni and do not work because they have barbas in Koroni. So the protection of the customer system, which you have created, is also about the protection of non-working workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u100	You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u101	I am not talking about specific cases. No, the opposite!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u102	We create impressions, that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u103	I don't know at all, and it's not my jurisdiction to judge. This is a matter of inspection of labour and ultimately of the courts. Your study and zeal, however, not to expect the evolution of the procedure, but to prejudge you that redundancies have been made for other reasons of vengeance, that makes me think second, is there anything else...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u104	For the disciplinary procedure, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u105	...but not in the context of your interest in parliament, but in the context of the clienteles you have made in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u106	If you have good faith, why don't you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u107	As far as what we have done since February, the Ministry of Labour, which has been monitoring its own time, has set the first meeting on 23 February, the second meeting on 18 March, immediately after the third meeting on 21 March. Therefore, not only did the Ministry not show any frustration but immediately rushed to define the meetings. The Labour Inspectorate has set the meeting, because because of his subsecution, which you inherited us, unfortunately, these are the times of the APRC, that is how it works. Therefore, not only did we react with oligopoly, but precisely because we are exclusively moving towards the protection of workers, but in the context of legality and not of patronage, we did what was within our competences, in times that I do not think they could become short-lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. The next three questions will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr.Theodoros Dritsas, since the fifth under number 789/18-4-2016 question of the second cycle of MP for the Greek Independent Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on illegal chartering of vessels, is not discussed in a Minister and MP's consultation. Next is the first with number 814/21-4-2016 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the planning of the Ministry for the management and adequacy of water resources in the aquarium islands of the Aegean Sea and the Cyclades. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an excellent opportunity today to discuss issues relating to islands again. Minister, you're an acquaintance. Unfortunately, however, Minister, abroad, but even internally there are factors of politicians, socialists and government that do not understand what islands mean, especially at a time when the country needs to support this prospect. I have tabled a specific proposal to the President of Parliament, Minister, to include - the assurance that it is included - the clause of insularity in every bill in the country. I know you have the same sensitivities. This is more necessary for each of us to understand today, when the natural resources in the region of the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, in the islands in general, are not taken for granted, and even where there is no need for expensive transport and recovery costs. One of these issues, Minister, is water. I know you've been involved in the past, and I know that by magic everything can't be solved. As far as the islands of the Aegean are concerned, however, they are not treated by the State either in terms of viability or sustainability, much more they are not treated in terms of rationalisation. You know my position isn't late. You also know that in the public debate I have taken a stand on, but also in Parliament in the past, as far as I am a Member of Parliament. I have been expressing it for three years in this Chamber. From 2006 to 2014, some 71m euros were spent, Minister, for the transport of water to the inland islands. I would really like you to tell us if you have any evidence in these two years what has been spent. You know if there were infrastructures (ports, desalination plants on the Aegean islands, studies on water resources management) we might not have that cost. I would, however, like to contribute to the debate and find a sustainable solution. I know you have sensitivities too. As far as the State's expenditure on water is concerned, this is not the only obstacle and the only one we are discussing today. There are problems with self-government which costs transport costs. I must also remind you, Minister, that especially for islanders there is a burdensome pricing policy, about 10.5 euros cubic costs every islander. That is, Madam President, five times the cost to the islander, to the citizen who lives on the islands, to the citizen who lives in Attica. It's an outrageous amount. You know, that's not a term of equality and equality. There is also an additional problem: summer season. You know what happens on the islands, in the tourist areas where there is no water - you are from a region where you have lived in the problem, in Aegina, and you remember what had happened - as there are issues of the state's inconsistency in paying for those responsible for transporting water. I therefore believe, Minister, that immediate priorities are needed to tackle the problems ahead of the tourist season and we also need to discuss a new strategic plan for sustainability and the prospect of the islands having this natural asset, namely water. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, many years in the first place. Thank you for the question. It gives an opportunity to update and update those who are listening to us, especially islands and islands, on this very important issue. In fact, islandity is an objective that unites all the wings of the House. At the initiative of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and the Ministry, and also of the President of the Parliament, with your participation in the recent event organised on the occasion of the release of the Dodecanese, I think we have put the water on the candle so that very soon the mechanisms for implementing this procedure of the Isle of Insularity will be a practice that the Greek Parliament will follow for the legislative process. In relation to the water supply of the islands, since it is early summer now, spring, I think your question is very topical. We have taken over the well-known system with some improvements planned for the development of desalination, the system of transporting water to the inland islands by boat. This is an anachronistic, multi-expected system, but it has survived and survived for decades still long, despite the fact that it is extremely anachronistic and extremely costly. Nevertheless, in the tender we have forced ourselves to run and run until the alternatives that are under way - and I will tell you about that - we have achieved very significant improvements. We even worked together - because this competition should have been opened in November 2014 and it was actually posted on 23-1-2015 - with the then Secretary-General of the Aegean, Mr Zoidis, who has been in his place for a few months, until the current Secretary-General Mr Giannelis takes over and we have managed with these anachronistic tenders to reduce the price from 12,90 to 2014, 2015, at 10,40 and then today at 10,30. It is not a huge reduction, but in any case it is important. In the period 2006-2014, to which you refer about the total cost of 71 million, and here we have a very significant improvement. It is on average 7.888 000 per year and I assure you that in 2015 we have a 54% reduction compared to the annual average 2006-2014. Now, transport costs are not passed on to the inhabitants of the islands. They don't pay 10.5 the cubic. These - fortunately for the islanders, but unfortunately for all Greek and Greek citizens - are paid for by the state budget and the general Aegean budget. The inhabitants of the islands shall, on average, pay EUR 1,5 per cubic metre to the relevant LAGs for the maintenance of the water and sewerage network and all of this. Madam President, I will also inform you of the desalination units and the path we have at the moment, but also of the new competitions, of a new water supply system for the islands and of many other things about the new programming we have put into the Ministry and the General Secretariat of the Aegean Sea. But we're on a good track and I think you'll be sure to do that with what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Consolas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u113	I look forward to it, Minister. The President had already wished, as was the case with other Members, for Easter. I sincerely welcome and applaud the fact that the proposal that I tabled at the formal sitting in Parliament is gradually being implemented, in relation to the insularity clause and its incorporation into bills. And we will really be delighted to have this story realised for your days. I wish! I am, however, delighted that you too have seen that there has been an anachronistic model in relation to water management in the country for decades. And, of course, what we will have to do is give a sustainable perspective to this management. You know, Minister, we talked about two levels that the state should do. One is direct action, and the second is to work together on a strategic plan for the development of natural resources in the Aegean islands, on the waterless islands. Kastelorizo, Minister. You know very well that it has been tortured in recent years by nonexistence and inability to have water, natural good. There is no reconstruction of the lake, despite the fact that the cost is only EUR 500 000. And you know, transporting the cost is huge for Kastelorizo. I have raised this issue again with a question in the House. I'm coming back today. At the same time, Minister, there are seven Aegean islands: Symi, Leipzig, Patmos, Leros, also in the Cyclades, Donusa, Kimolos and Amorgos, for which they have been purchased desalination units and are not yet operational for various reasons. Let me stay in Patmos for a while. In Patmos there are no two main infrastructure projects to complete the technical study - already carried out - and support projects. The water transfer to Patmos and the Arquis, Minister, costs 1,000,000 euros. With this completion of the projects, I think that resources will be saved, while the operation of these two units will also enable the production of a thousand two hundred cubic cubics a day and will give a permanent solution to the area, in Patmos, which you know very well what it means to the period ahead. A further problem, Mr Minister, which you must see with great stubbornness, is PPC's charges. PPC's pricing policy cannot, Minister, have the characteristics of domestic electricity. It is impossible for any municipality to respond to this charge. So we must end this outdated one - as you have said and I am strengthening your voice - and a cosmopolitan water transport model. It must end once and for all this story. You know, if we want to believe that the natural good, which is water, must be offered to the citizens as a natural good, we must prove it by means of actions. Because today it is nothing but natural, since there is no water and they pay for it very expensive. Mr Minister, the Ministry of Interior must also help the Ministry of Shipping a little. You can't pull this Golgotha on your own. And I don't see the Interior Department being sensitive. And tell you why. Because we need a special project, we need a specific funding for the Ottawas. At the same time, support works for lakes must be carried out, works, studies for impurities must be carried out, fences must be made in the streams. We need to demarcate a web of issues relating to Government. And, you know, these projects will soon be amortised if these resources we have said before, Minister. The benefits will be many. It will be financially smoother in water management, through cutting funding from the Ministry of Shipping for the transport of water, there will be sufficient water supply on the islands and also lowering the cost of water consumption to the citizens and also to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Colleague, I'll do as fast as I can to tell you everything. As far as desalination plants are concerned: they already operate desalination plants in Schinoussa, Folegandros, Symi, Arquis, Thirasia and Megisti. In the two years 2015-2016, the transport of drinking water by water ship to the ten anhydrous islands of the Prefectures of Dodecanese and Cyclades and the annual transport cost was limited to 3,603.560 in 2015, from 5,000, and over 2014 and from 6,366,000, which was in 2013. In Lero, Amorgos, Aegialis and Donusa, after auctions, the accompanying works are built to make the desalination units work and are expected to be completed by about August. In Heraklion, the licensing and design of the accompanying works were completed and the works are expected to be auctioned by the Municipality of Naxos and Small Cyclades. It's a project of about 466,000. We proceeded, at the initiative of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and the Secretary General of Mr. Giannellis, on a pilot project for Megisti (Castelorizo) and Patmos. This is a pilot seawater treatment program from desalination plants, existing or new. This pilot project is for five years. The cost for Kastelorizo is projected to be 90 minutes per cubic, from the existing desalination plant and 1,90 euros from the new desalination plant. In Patmos, respectively, with the same pilot program, we will have two new desalination units, six hundred cubics a day. The competition for Patmos and Arquis and the operation and maintenance of the refinery in Patmos for the production of drinking water for five years has also been opened here. The cost of drinking water production is set at 75 minutes and see, because the competition can reduce it further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u116	Chronicles?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u117	These competitions should have been completed. They've been a long way ahead. They have not been completed because the Committee on the Evaluation of Tenders, by decision of the AEDC, is not in its hands and we have a delay on that basis. I imagine, however, that it will be over soon and that it will proceed so that we can have even lower prices. The competitions for the water supply needs of the rest of the five islands, Kimolos, Amorgos, Katargos, Leipzig, Agathonis and the Panormitis Monastery in Symi will be announced according to the course of the two previous competitions. We will see if the pilot project succeeds and then we will implement it there too. If not, we shall proceed with normal procedures. But you understand that when we have a cost around EUR 1 to EUR 2 per cubic metaphor in front of EUR 10 to EUR 12 up to now, this is a major development. In Kastelorizo the tank built by the Ministry of Agriculture did not work until 15 years ago because it was serious the failures that then accompanied this project. With those interventions we are doing, we will combine them and there is no need for new expenditure to do that. With the financial resources available from the General Secretariat of the Aegean, it makes every effort. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I want to finish telling you it's not all that. We are studying together with the EEAS - and you have referred to other projects such as collectors, all of which each island needs to study - an even more ambitious project that I cannot tell you at the moment more details. It's at a very early stage. He's not in the process. However, there is a good chance that we will later be able to put it into practice. We are talking about water supply through underwater pipelines for drinking water at an even lower cost, ultimately and without consumption of natural resources, but with savings of natural resources, i.e. water that is lost and falling into the sea. These are plans that at the moment, just on the opportunity given, I refer to them. I cannot, however, defend that this is a commitment to implementation, because it is at a very early stage. I would like to say to you, however, that we are out of the question of the possibility of reaching a maximum of two alternatives in the next two years across the islands of the Dodecanese, the Cyclades and the whole of the country having modern solutions at a very low cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u118	We have to keep the time, please. We will now discuss the sixth question by number 795/18-4-2016 of the second question by Evia MP, Simos Kedicoglou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the draft law promoted by the Ministry for the Establishment of a Public Authority of Piraeus Ports. Mr. Kedicoglou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, many years! Because the Minister has already raised the issue of updating, my question is two months, because it was tabled as a simple question. However, because I wanted to get answers it twice as a timely question. Many things have changed, but it remains timely, because the Minister presented the bill for the Public Port Authority for consultation on Thursday. His plans have been changed. My concerns, however, also regarding the reluctance and reflection of investors and the whole maritime market, as well as the draft law promoted by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, remain. I don't have to read the whole question. And I'd like you, if you can, to give me everything that is left over in my denture. Minister, and after the first reading of the bill you presented the question remains: What is the need to create the Public Port Authority? The bill also raises many other questions. Because it's not a Memorandum obligation. What was envisaged was to become an operational and independent authority for the existing Port Regulatory Authority and not to establish a new one that would be fully overlapsed with the Regulatory Authority and with the private concessionaire. We would therefore like you to tell us, Minister, what the responsibilities of the IASP are. I imagine that, by the way, you will tell us at the outset about your bill. So then I'll have a chance to sit down, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u120	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Kedicoglou, I wish you many years and whatever you wish, good strength. Look, I have really wondered, with all the text of your question, and with all the respect and love and appreciation I have for you, if you are involved - not personally, but as a party, as a political area - along with a mass media, together with other factors, in a selfishly intentional misinformation, which we have indeed dealt with and dealt with personally, or if you have just fallen victim to this misinformation. The privatizations were not in our program. It is the product of the agreement we made last summer and we accepted and brought to Parliament and it was passed and it became a law, No.4336/2015, to privatise the productive units of the State that were already in competition. One of them was PPA, just like Thessaloniki. What did we do? We intervened in the negotiations. In fact, the former Government of Samara - Venizelos, PASOK - New Democracy had not taken care of giving the ral any competence. Even the Presidential Decree had not even been dictated in a way that was sufficient to deal with this role assigned to RAL or the opening process for its emergence to an independent authority. What did we do? We have asked, we have said, because this is the case everywhere in all the countries of Europe, and in addition to the provision made by the lenders for the RAL - a great debate, but we have in any case accepted it - we have added other principles of port. He's at the n. 4336 and indeed by port services, i.e. the beginning of ports, such as the international term of the public port authorities. So what we are doing now with the draft law on "Reforming the system of supervision and control of the Greek port system and other provisions", which we will be given the opportunity very soon to discuss here, in extended course, is a conquest of our own government in negotiating with lenders and embedded in the n. 4336. It is therefore an obligation and a commitment, which has become part of the evaluation process. That is why it was necessary to consult both creditors and the HIAD on this law, which we are introducing. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to inform you that while there was another text that the creditors wanted to discuss in general the port system, there was also the phrase 'as quasi-universal successor' and not in our own text - in order to understand how distortions have been created around them - in this text we, therefore, also, stubbornly but also with a documentary viewpoint and conduct - because we are working as an ants in our Government and in the Ministry of Shipping - managed and put our own text in the negotiation with creditors and with TIED's technical involvement. Product of this procedure is this draft law for RAL, which we give it extensive powers, full independence, self-controlled procedures - accounting and not a virtual independent authority - which RAL has the power to regulate competition, regardless of whether there is the well-known principle of competition, but in any case, for ports, for Greece, for all ports and for all ports and for all ports, and for everything that is regulatory about competition. But who would be exercised by the public area? I shall conclude, Madam President - and I will be forgiven for overcoming the time - this. The PPA, like ELTH, was a Greek distortion of a European tradition, which is not found anywhere. It is elsewhere the commercial part of the ports and elsewhere the public regulatory and regulatory framework used by the port authorities. We had here in a body and an anonymous company listed on the stock exchange and a supervising public port authority. That's what PPA and OLTH have been doing so far. Now, privatised, what will become the public interest and public policy competences exercised by the PPA? Should they not be reflected in a new body, as is happening throughout Europe, to exercise this control? These absolutely developmental, absolutely rational, absolutely democratic and absolutely mandatory rules for anyone who wants to defend fundamentally public control and public interest, have been described with an orchestra of publications, deliberately, as an undermining of the country's development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u122	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u123	I shall return to this for a more detailed description, what we are doing, but the framework is that. And if we want to talk seriously, it is about how public control in privatised enterprises will be exercised in this modern country. Unless we say that we do not want public control over privatised enterprises, we want absolute market immunity. Well, then let's have a clean talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u124	You'll have the time and the debate of the bill to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, but some answers need to be given in the first phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u126	You, Mr. Kedicoglou, have half a minute of your prototype. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, the only essential competence with the Law of Mousouroulis since 2012 is that most of the responsibilities in the public interest of the PPA had already been transferred to either the regulatory authority, the Secretariat-General of Port Policy or the Port Body. Minister, I have to say that in the informal SYRIZA Ministerial Championship for the service of party friends and the abundance of the state, you put this bill too high on the bar. Mr. Pappas has defrauded the powers of an independent authority with the channel bill. You create an independent principle of your own forages. Excellent prototype! Mr. Paulakis dismantled the intensive care units to suit a few dozen of his party friends. You create a body of super-private, lifelongs, in the Greek state, with rich dowry and extensive judicial and financial powers. It's a bit of a populace regime. Let's see what Mr. Polakis thinks to get over you. But to begin with, by how you mean the independent authority or how you understand the free economy, because our differences are fundamentally ideological and political. To start with by the Port Regulatory Authority, which you call it an independent authority, so that you also have an excuse to create a public port authority, and that, Minister, is a global originality. Only Greece has them. As far as your references to foreign countries are concerned, do not forget that most of these countries do not have a Ministry of Shipping. Greece has and must continue to have. Because with what you are doing, there are reasonable questions about how you think about the future of the Ministry of Shipping and I hope you do not think about repeating mistakes of the past. So the regulator confuses the administrative powers with the rights it exercises on behalf of the public. In other words, on the one hand, it identifies criminal clauses and fines and on the other, it changes a hat and becomes an independent administrative authority that will judge the objections of the parties concerned. You say there is provision for harmonisation of fees. Is that how you understand the free market? For example, in Evia, the port of Chalkida if it is to compete with the other ports, should be able to make its own policy in the public framework it is. You are also giving judicial powers with Article 6 on the temporary regulation of a situation, which is provided only for judicial decisions on insurance measures or for the application of police provisions. And that's not enough, but with Article 7, you make the ral and police authority. We have so far known the American expression "judge, jury, and executioner", i.e. judge, juror and executioner. You guys go ahead. You have done it 'Sheriff, Judge, Judge, Jury, and Executioner'. In other words, “the sheriff and judge and jury and executioner”. But the best thing is the way to choose. You'll have to rewrite the bill here, Minister. Because in the text of the bill you say that the President, the Vice-President and the Members of the RAL are chosen by the House, after the opinion of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and then you say that they are appointed by the Minister - by you - after notification of that decision of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament. What's the matter with both of you? Both can't be. The Conference of Presidents is, of course, absent in the Report. Such manoeuvres are not allowed. I would like to say a few words, however, about the Public Port Authority. First of all, we have an unprecedented overlapping of responsibilities. If you look at the articles describing the regulatory responsibilities of ADAL and RAL, they are the same, Minister. I don't understand. And look at the overlaps of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Trade Shipping, the General Secretariat of Port Policy, the Regulatory Authority of Ports, the Port Body, the Ministry of Labour, the Competition Committee. How many coverings now? How will this system work? Not to say how the principle of freedom of business is violated. There's no justification for a legal basis. The only basis, Minister, is that you create a small paradise for your own party friends. Why -- where'd he hear it before? - you create - listen! - an administrative and financial unit of the Ministry. Financial selfishness crazy, huh? One seventh of the revenue from the concessions of ports. And who's going there? Those of PPA and PGI who want, with a signature only, and will maintain both the privileges and rewards they have had in the past. Honestly, this one seventh, you'll give there, where will it be, Minister? Because he's gonna be away somewhere. And we don't have enough money. You could have this structure in the Ministry at much lower cost. But do I want to dwell on Article 21 - in the case of g - with which you are actually creating a 'unionist police'? Where did they hear those provisions again? That's why I've been talking to lay-outs. There are laws, there are principles in Greece. You don't have to create new ones. And I'm going to report to the Public Authority of Ports of Piraeus. It was another original plan, because you had to change the text five times. But you are looking at it at the first regional office of the Public Port Authority. He'll be in Piraeus. But since you cannot invent or locate responsibilities to justify the creation of the Public Port Authority in Piraeus, you are doing the following tricks. You are authorised by the bill yourself, the Minister of Shipping, to issue a ministerial decision in the future, which will specify the responsibilities of the Public Authority Port of Piraeus. And yet you are canceling this because at the same time you say that the IAS can work without the ministerial decision! Have we seen everything? No, I won't say that phrase. Because, unfortunately, we see with you every day and something new. I shall also make a reference, simply, to the provisions on the Port House, because it is a 'broom plan'. So many provisions, saying they will be qualified by ministerial decision, Minister! A better preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u128	We've transformed the conversation into a discussion of the bill. Minister, please respect the time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u129	I am not going to get carried away, Madam President, because precisely this bill is already in the consultation process. Tomorrow is the end of the time, which has been determined. The relevant improvements will be made on the basis of the observations to be assessed. The next week will be pushed forward and I think it will be very soon to be discussed in Parliament. Then we will have the opportunity, Mr Colleague, to explain everything you have said in detail. But what I don't understand is what you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u130	A lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u131	For what have you not been used to so long since your term of office for decades? The fact that the port agencies, which were obliged to exercise public control and regulation, have never exercised them with the administrations you were designated and which were all party? Are you saying that the IAS process, that which describes the draft law and which can be improved - is open in this direction - is it for the service of party friends? There is hardly any clearer procedure. For now, precisely because in the PPA and the EAF they do not have a specific list of their regulatory obligations - we have searched for them to be categorised - we have preferred not to leave anyone out, precisely because there is a passionateness, a weakness, a desperate indifference of decades to build up a system of public control and regulatory intervention of public bodies and bodies - because other things are being worked out by administrations and others for so many years - to make the general wording in the draft law, so that the Minister can come, but those involved in port operations - the Port Agency - systematically categorise and update every time this whole framework. I say to you: This provision for the transfer of these powers to a newly established public body is contained in the concession contract that was posted on the GIDE platform and on the basis of which the competitive procedure was carried out. The same will happen in Thessaloniki. The investors, who wanted to participate in the competition, knew that. He didn't come after them. And that was our initiative, the government, the ministry, because we played with open cards and very systematic targets at everything. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Finally, the Ministry of Shipping, through the Secretariat-General of Ports of Port Policy and Maritime Investment, remains the body responsible for the development of national port policy. Supervisory role, daily, cannot be played by the Ministry's services - and you know it better than me - in a privatised port. RAL is an independent authority, and I wonder if you're protesting because we've upgraded her role. We have upgraded her role of committing her and not being the types of an independent authority, which she allegedly exists to control competition. Be truly an independent authority and with responsibilities, which will really exercise and will not evade, as other independent authorities do, which you also know very well. And you all thank that you supposedly have the fig sheet that we have an independent authority. And public control is not carried out - and you know that - at all levels of competition. So we're doing this incision. Poor? Come and tell us in the bill discussion. And the AAL has exactly the regulatory character to a first degree. In the second place, RAL will also have it, along with its regulatory system, precisely because the regulatory nature of each port must be a specific product of the specific measures that must be taken. That is why in the draft law we are planning the Public Port Authority, the Department of Piraeus, the Department of Thessaloniki, without increasing the number of employees with uniform and not with different management councils, precisely because we do not seek to place them on party friends. Otherwise we would do separate Public Authority Piraeus, separate Public Authority Thessaloniki and go by saying. Doesn't that mean anything to you? A board of directors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u132	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u133	Yes, but you must prepare for them better when the draft law is discussed. In any case, the government has complied with the commitments made last summer but has not been delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u134	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u135	It doesn't go unconditionally. It defends as much the public interest as it can at any level, so that development has a social dividend, that it is not a growth in numbers and growth for a few. This is our aim, and that is why we want - and we are doing - the work relationships to ensure that port users are also guaranteed the coastal towns and municipalities. These three objectives in the course of privatisation of ports are the threefold, with which we have stubbornly, systematically not stopped at any time working and trying to find solutions which we have also documented. That is why they were accepted, and they were initially rejected. You were watching all the charges, which every day various interlinked media, of all kinds, were throwing misleading news and descriptions on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the Finnish Minister for Social Affairs and Health, Mr Hannah Mendula, along with her delegation. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is a parliamentary control procedure, where Members ask the ministers questions about matters within their competence, and they answer them. Thank you very much for being here today in the context of your visit and we wish you the best for your country and for you personally. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one members of the Association of Parents and Gardens of the 2nd Municipal School of Beach of Stavrou Thessaloniki, as well as seventeen students and its students. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The twelfth is now to be discussed under number 774/11-4-2016, a topical question for the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the Organization of the Port of Thessaloniki (OLTH). Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much. I'll try not to exhaust my protolog, to add time to my denology. Minister, the port of Thessaloniki is a huge comparative advantage for the development of northern Greece, as well as for the wider region. The Government has announced and promoted the privatisation of the port of Thessaloniki, through the sale of the majority package of shares in the “LIT SA”. And the fate happened so that the left-wing SYRIZA government would be the one to make the most aggressive form of privatisation, even the most powerful liberal voices could not even shine a few years ago. But it is this: we would like - and I will explain in my dentext why we are too sceptical - to tell us within the time available to you, what exactly is foreseen in relation to the timetable for privatization. In the master plan, as far as I know, we had final developments on Wednesday. What about the amendments required for the concession between the public and the EAF? What are the main investments that the investor will have to make in connection with the infrastructure, but of course also with the development policy of the port of Thessaloniki in the first phase? In a second phase, we would like a clear answer to the future of the Port of Thessaloniki's A pier once there has been a relative opacity in this respect, when the Municipality of Thessaloniki publicly declared that it was somewhat - very much - inflamed by the government, because while it had agreed to grant A pier to the Municipality of Thessaloniki, this seems to be not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u138	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I've been hoping for years for you too. You're asking for a clear answer. Clearly it will be my answer, but indeed, because everything about Thessaloniki is still under way, it cannot be final and finally. You understand that. But I'll tell you what direction we're moving. First of all, let's make something clear. You said an aggressive form of privatization. You're accusing us of neoliberals. Indeed, if you mean selling the majority package of shares, that is not our choice. It was your governments' choice that bound us up, because - through the negotiation - it was about the ongoing, outdated competitive procedures that we had to accept and which we had to accept. This does not, in fact, meet in Europe, the sale, in other words, of the majority package of shares. Other privatizations, concessions, etc. One is meeting in the ports of Europe in the advanced capitalist countries. If you mean that as aggressive privatisation, share responsibility. However, in any case, the responsibility lies primarily with you. What do we do now? Thessaloniki is a special case. We have had developments in Piraeus, and we hope that Piraeus, through these conditions and thanks to social control, to public control, will progress its development process at a rapid rate, because it has enormous advantages for the port of Piraeus - obviously and has - in whatever form it is run. Thessaloniki should not be left behind. On the contrary, the port of Thessaloniki must also become a first-line port, because it has special features and special potential. It is therefore the upgrading of the port of Thessaloniki to our intentions and goals. In our intentions, too, is to ensure safe and stable work - as in Piraeus, as in Thessaloniki, it is developmental, except for the size of justice - and to maintain the vital relationship between the port and the city. In these directions we have set up committees. We couldn't do that in Piraeus, and you know that. I thought, in fact, that it was strange because I asked for the law and the agreements to be applied. In Thessaloniki, we were able to do it. A committee has been appointed by the Ministry, a commission from the Port Agency. Recently, after preparing work, the committee headed by the Secretary-General of Ports Mr Lambridis visited Thessaloniki. With PPA actors, but then - at wider meetings - with chambers, government and others in Thessaloniki, these two working groups have put down the revision of the concession agreement and have moved to very important convergences, which are now completed within the days. And there will be exactly the final text to be posted. The GOI has announced that the time to submit tenders by the tenderers is about July. However, in accordance with the commitments we have and the implementation of the procedures, we must soon complete the draft concession agreement and the draft legislative act so that they can be consistently adopted and put up. The level of investment on the part of the Ministry, but also the committees which have worked, must remain - as is set out in the first five years - at least at 309 million, so that it can be a high amount. In any case, someone else can say it a little, someone else can say it a lot. The president of HIADED, recently in Thessaloniki, raised a question that is a very high amount. But this amount is not just a number. It is mainly necessary to extend the pier 6 and make the port of Thessaloniki competitive, not only in bulk, in bulk, but also in containers. That's our concern, the targeting. They both agreed on this. We are working on the best possible solutions, so that the master plan - to which you referred and recently approved by the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki - as a basis for these crucial issues, because there are other secondary issues, ensure not only the amount of the investor's obligation and his commitment for the first five years, but also the type of investment related to other projects and, in particular, the work of the sixth pier and then - another subject, escapes the competitive process - to upgrade the railway connection of the port of Thessaloniki, which is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u140	Finish, Minister. You've taken twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u141	I shall conclude, Madam President. Here, you say that there is opacity on pier 1. The Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Boutaris, has sent written texts and has requested the maintenance of the pier 1 and the buildings used for cultural purposes in the use of the city. We're going one step further. The proposal of the two committees - which is now in its final form - goes to the concession of most buildings and all the environment in the city and in the municipality and in the International Exhibition and in the Ministry of Culture and the Film Center for the Film Festival. We'll see how and what. There is a debate about who will bear the cost of maintenance, of operation, apart from the buildings that are already rented and which pay profits, rents to the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, for which if we do this, we may indeed have legal issues of another type. We will be given the opportunity next time for more detailed descriptions when all this is done. I can assure you, however, that there is no opaque or delay or indifference. Contrary to Thessaloniki, much more systematically and better than the Piraeus process, we go even better with what the law and the concession contract of the Greek State and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki stipulates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u143	Minister, you have not been able to enjoy my reservations and concerns. On the contrary, you have confirmed what is - if you want - the obvious to all Greek society, that in particular in the issue of privatisation, the government feels very uncomfortable. And it feels very uncomfortable, because it was the front of the announcements, when it was opposition, against privatisation. So you, too, as a representative of the Government in this central Ministry of Shipping, continue to be trapped between the left-wing ideas on the one hand, the election announcements, when you said "no to the sale of the ports" and, of course, "no" to the sale of the port of Thessaloniki and in fact. And not to say things that are not true, you were able - that was your election commitment - to change the things that were under way. With this slogan you took the vote of the Greek people. Here, however, we see that in the memorandum on privatisation, it is explicitly mentioned on page one thousand and thirty of the relevant FEK, on August 14, where they sign eighteen Ministers: "The Government and the GIDED will declare binding bid dates for the Ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, without any substantial changes in the terms of the tender." You agreed, you signed it eighteen Ministers and the Prime Minister first. Secondly, with regard to the untrustworthyness of the government - and this is my great concern, if you like - the issue of aggressive sales. But you remember, Minister, that in 2008, when the New Democracy Government went to make substantial concessions for the TSE for thirty years only, at a price close to 400m euros, many of your fellows were up on the bars, not to mention any of them and move on to the "extrading" at the time. That was the phrase. And there were many of your fellow Members and, of course, many of them, PASOK - I mean, fellow Members - who were on the bars, not to mention anything, and only to give 30 years to the CTBO and take 400 million to the Greek State and create a thousand new jobs. So don't talk to me about issues that were launched and you couldn't change them. Thirdly, do not give me any arguments for misinformation. I have your own positions, Minister, which strengthen my view that there is complete untrustworthiness on the face - the political person I mean, not as a natural person - as a representative of the Ministry of Shipping's leadership. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Here you say things that don't apply. And to leave the issues of HIADE, where you say that HIADE operates as a state in public, which is the executive arm and the executive body of privatisation. And the Minister responsible, who is involved in the privatisation of the port, is publicly emptied of the executive, which is supposed to have a direct connection with Maximos. But here, you know, mother loses mother and child mother. There's no way anyone can figure it out. You can't figure out what's going on. Do you believe in privatisation? You do something you don't believe. You will also be doing a privatization, that is, weeping, as Mr Spirtz has done with airports, and you want us to believe that you believe in using the port. But you're expressly saying that. You've said that. You said - if I remember correctly - that competitiveness will not be strengthened by privatisation. You referred mainly to the PPA, but I imagine it will be the same for you to see the PLF. You have said that you are questioning the strengthening of competitiveness after the investments of 'COSCO', that this would be done anyway, with a magic wand. And, of course, here you are questioning, you say it's a creditor's invention of the TIAD, it's not a government. In fact, you are emptying the most useful tool for privatising the port of Thessaloniki. You want to convince us that you believe it? I'm closing up with the following: The opacity that I told you earlier has to do with the positions of the Mayor of Thessaloniki. The Mayor of Thessaloniki, Minister, has said publicly, unequivocally and reluctantly in front of dozens of actors and productive bodies in the city, which at the moment, if you like, are resurrecting, want to see a light because their businesses really suffer from the government's policies, that he has agreed with the government to grant the first pier. We also have the question of Enormousness where the railway line is closed for so many months, so many weeks, we also have the question of privatising the port that they see has a government going ahead with a project that doesn't even believe it. I'm telling you, because we need to get a clean answer to Thessaloniki. It happens and I am also in charge of the major opposition to the Thessaloniki Municipal Council and this issue is being discussed. So the Mayor called for exceptional meetings - the issue was discussed at the Thessaloniki City Council - and, in essence, complained to the government that it did not comply with the agreeds. In fact, he said publicly that he would come to see the Prime Minister and ask for the same provision that you - if I am not mistaken - in the bill under consultation, in Article 49 for an exception to the privatisation of eighty-six thousand square meters of Drapetsona, where this particular area is given to the Municipality of Keratsini - Drapetsonas, for the corresponding concession of the first pier to the Municipality of Thessaloniki. I ask you directly: is there any agreement, agreement, between the Mayor of Thessaloniki and the Government? Because, Minister - and I'm finishing up - someone has to tell the truth and someone is lying. Or there has been an agreement between the Mayor of Thessaloniki and the Government and the government, so the government lies to the mayor - and obviously the mayor's institution and, of course, the Thessalonians - or the Mayor of Thessaloniki has made no agreement, so the Mayor of Thessaloniki lies. I would therefore like a clear answer to that. It is important to know what will happen. I am also telling you that the issue of the concession of the first pier, since it does not cause any problem in the further competitive process, you should see it. I would like to know - and I do not judge or assess - whether there is a corresponding provision in your mind - as has been done with the report, which was, of course, an announcement by the Prime Minister, in relation to the concession of the Municipality of Keratini - to the draft law on the concession of the first pier to the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u144	Good, Mr. Kalafati. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Thodoros Dritsas, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think I have given you sufficient answers, over and above time in my first speech, on matters relating mainly to the municipality and the concession of the pier. I'll come back. Before that, though, because you were sharp and with an effort to redeem my face...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u146	I spoke with real facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u147	I'd like to point out that it's good...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u148	I'm sorry, I didn't make any descriptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u149	You didn't do characterizations. Right away, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u150	I've actually mentioned cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u151	But don't engage in dialogue. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u152	It's all right, Mr. President. Clearly, you have used all the arguments that I have heard every day in the various channels for months, and I read in specific newspapers with the exact same phrases. In political terms, pluralism, an originality, needs something. The political reason needs to be revived. It becomes stereotype, tiring and barren when we insist on all this. You're breaking open doors. It is not in our programme - it was not and is not - the privatisations, the exploitation of the strategic nature of the country's productive units through privatisation and much more through the privatisations of this model that you described before and I also described the sale of the majority package. It came as a commitment from last year's process of completing this tough negotiation that resulted in a painful - certain issues - a compromise which does not rebut the debate. In fact, privatization will proceed to Piraeus and Thessaloniki, as we committed ourselves to the competitive procedures that were already under way. I said it four times. Does this negate our obligation to discuss the best way for the country's development? Are the Europeans, and do they not go to such models? Are they the same people who force them on us in their own countries not to choose them? Won't that worry us about our country? Obviously, we are operating through a compromise and through the connections that exist, but we must stand up and say: In this connection, what do I have to do to leave the door open to a utilization of the country's wealthy production potential for the benefit of the social system and public control? Shouldn't we discuss this? And I wonder: Aren't you concerned with industrial relations as a productive prerequisite for development? I told you again, beyond an act of justice for the workers, what do we want? An unemployed growth? Do we want the model of the prosperity of the numbers and the well-being of the few? All this, despite the development that existed last year and last year's agreement, has not ceased to be the subject of compulsory involvement of the whole political spectrum. The contradiction obviously exists in our Government. You're breaking open doors. What does that mean? Shall we get up or stay and fight all these things in the most rational and serious way? So there is what I ask you not to continue with this stereotype reproduction of the famous remarks we hear every day. Sluts! Inside the House there must be more original reason and more deepening of the issues. I don't know what the mayor said, the City Council. We, when the secretary went up, had sought a meeting. We met with the Vice-President responsible, because Mr Boutaris was missing. The mayor has come to Piraeus for other reasons, just as we have discussed and the issue of the concession of the port areas is open to all the municipalities of Greece. The CEDEFOP Bureau and the Mayor of Thessaloniki had come to the Ministry. According to the model of fertilisers or Patras, the areas belonging to port agencies are to be allocated to the municipalities, but are not used for port operations. There is no reason for them to remain in port agencies. They must be attributed to the cities. That's not about the port. It's about other land. Port work, however, on pier 1, can be served. And pier 1, most of it, as a whole, we want it to be granted to the city in various ways. I'm telling you, we've received the Mayor's request in writing. The topographics prepared by the Municipality of Thessaloniki were registered, we incorporated them in the consultation process. Not only did we accept it, but we're over it. We're not just talking about a usage performance. But there is a debate on how and what.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u153	Without the competitive process having a problem, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u154	You put it now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u155	This is the first, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u156	That's where the TIAD comes in and says, but if we do that, the competitive process will be affected. Watch out. We have heard this sometimes. We heard about it in the fertilisers. Although it was the Prime Minister's commitment, the coastline of fertilisers was excluded and no competitive procedure was affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u157	That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u158	Well, because things are at a critical moment, I don't want to insist any more, because all this is still in shape. I'm going to stay here, but I'm giving you some clues, because you need your participation in it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u159	Good. Complete your position, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u160	Are you going to be in favour of the competitive process or of the concession of the pier 1 to the municipality and the city?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u161	All right, if the contests are cancelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u162	This dilemma will not solve it ideologically. We'll solve this on the basis of data. And so I assure you that there is no opacity, on the contrary there is a systematic effort to serve in the best way the needs of the city and to maintain in the new conditions the historical relationship of the port of Thessaloniki with the city, as the same relationship must be maintained in Piraeus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Minister Dritsa. We move on to the third with number 792/18-4-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on "subjudgment and provocation at peaceful political events and demonstrations by Greek citizens". Mr. Ioannis Rabbit has the floor to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. This question was tabled about a month and a half ago, on the occasion of a gathering which had been organized and took part in Piraeus by the Committee on National Remembrance and in which guests were invited to speak to be speakers of the Golden Dawn. So at this gathering, which was attended by Members of the Golden Dawn, or at many other gatherings organized by the Golden Dawn, we have seen the following oxymometer: to have at the same time, at the same time, in the same place, gatherings of illegals organized by groups of para-state salts and the government not to do anything. And not only should it not do anything, but ask the Members of the Golden Dawn, from various members or from ordinary citizens who are in these events. Here we have reached the point, for this particular gathering we are talking about, hearing responsibility for Golden Dawn MPs, for not having run fast to prevent incidents. But not that he was there to stop the incidents. In fact, we have witnessed a tragic spectacle, some SYRIZA MPs questioning to ask you, you and your ministry, because we have not been prosecuted against us. But these people, but you did not answer them that here there was a legitimate gathering that took place at that time and next door there was an illegal concentration. And many have been misunderstood - he allegedly says - by the attitude of the police, who acted diligently to the MPs and the nationalists who were at this gathering. But someone did not say why these punks who were next door were not arrested, who had come to concentrate only in order to create incidents. Because those who came there came in 20 meters came with helmets, bats and came to create episodes and to beat people. So we have come to apologise now and say why it was there Members of the Golden Dawn. They were Members of the Golden Dawn because they had been asked to be present to be speakers. That's the process. And I want you to talk about this and tell us, Minister, why don't you stop this concentrating phenomenon. Where's this thing going? Honestly, if any of the other bodies, who are opposed to Golden Dawn, go Golden Dawn executives and gather to ten meters from there in order to block this gathering, tell me what your position will be towards the Golden Eggs or anyone who goes over there at that time? What is your position and your attitude to all these para-state bums? Because the slightest move has not happened at their expense. There has been no single induction into all these moves that have been made against us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u165	The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Nikolaos Toskas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the provisions of the Constitution, in particular in Article 11, on the right to a meeting, it states: "Greeks have the right to meet quietly and without weapons. Only in public outdoor meetings can the police attend. Outdoor meetings may be prohibited by a reasoned decision of the police authority, in general, if, due to the serious risk to public security, in a certain area, there is a serious disturbance in socio-economic life as defined in the law.’ The Greek police, through the exercise of the policing of public and state security, aim to prevent and suppress crime, to ensure social peace. You all know well that the police measures taken are not listed and are not specified in the law, but are dictated by the circumstances and the prevailing circumstances. All the necessary steps are taken to ensure that there is the order required by the law so that there is no breaking down of this class and incidents are created. You know well that the police keep exactly what the Constitution provides and what the law provides for. It does not separate concentrations according to their policies and ideological status. This impeccable attitude, the neutral attitude, the attitude in line with the law has taken a long time, almost over the past year, preventing conflict, preventing any breaking-up of the order. Athens and the major cities are quieter than ever and in this direction we will move. Now, of course, I would remind you that the anti-democratic elements that hold irons are undermining the civilisation, the anti-democratic elements that have a provocative attitude, and we will be against all these elements that risk breaking up the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Ioannis Rabbit has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u168	If what you said now to us in the words, Mr Minister, you did it in practice, we would not ask you this question. But this is where we're going to get to another point, because you're going to drive us crazy. You are telling us that things in Athens and in the major cities go hand in hand. I will tell you some typical examples and you tell us where else this is going, except in third world countries. Here we see in public and private buildings anyone who wants to get in, take over these places, and if they are not disturbed by anyone. We've seen it in universities, in institutions, in the abatto of Exarchates. We have now seen in a hotel, a private business, a group of people who call themselves the way they want, solidarity, anarchists, anti-powered, and not bother them to do what they want. That's Farr-West. If this is what you mean as a 'legal order' in Athens and in the major cities, we sincerely have a different perception of it. I would also like to tell you that about two and a half months ago we submitted a question to you and asked you specifically about the unbaptised excavations. We were asking you what's going on in there, didn't anyone dare get close? And you gave us an answer from your ministry that everything is fine, there's nothing. After two and a half months, they went and burned down the Police Department of Excavations, day after day, they left like gentlemen, zero incubations. There's nothing. We have seen then and then again a group of so-called "anti-democratic" self-determinations - for me, I repeat - walk around the center of Athens with guns per hand. And you're telling us there's nothing in Athens? Are we serious? What else do they have to do? Start taking hostages slowly? They will. Also, let's say something else about the police and the police. Here we see in the Illegal Immigrant Centers, created by your government, signs and monsters being found in the media, rapes, murders. There was an attack a few days ago in Samos and a police officer intervened there - good man's time - and they went to stab him and escaped a miracle. And we saw that this man was inherited and his sentence was eleven months with a three-year parole. If all these things were made by Greek and mainly Greek nationalists, what would be your reaction? And here - because we have a long time to talk, why don't you do us a favor to answer questions and today was an exception, which we hope will continue - to ask you and tell you something. When there had been some incidents outside the House a few months ago in the New Democracy MP, Mr Kumucako, you yourself had left and said that there are members and MPs of the Golden Dawn who are involved in this case. You must be careful what you say, Minister, because here you do not speak as a person. You speak as the Minister of the Greek Government and say these fats at the expense of these people. And when a few days later, the necessary actions were carried out and it turned out that no Golden Dawn MP had any involvement, but neither did you have the eloquence to go out and say that you are apologizing, that you were wrong about what you said. Because that's where we'd say you got carried away and made a mistake. But with your behavior, you show empathy and not that you were wrong. Also, in the question I asked before - and I was waiting for your answer - you directly told me that the Greek Police will not stop the mergers that are taking place. Be careful, though, because for what will happen from now on you will be responsible. Why are you allowing counter-concentrations on a legitimate party, the legitimate third party that is at the moment of the Greek Parliament. I asked you again and I am waiting for your answer. If we were to go to a gathering of any party and have been concentrating - which we have never done and have never done and will never do - what would be your reaction and what would be your moves? That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u170	Obviously, we have different perceptions, and obviously we have a different policy. And that's well known. As far as the counter-concentrations are concerned, as far as the occupations are concerned, we have never come here to say that everything is going wishfully - as you said - and we have never come here to look at situations or advertise any paradise worlds. Apparently there are problems. Comparisons do with other times, comparisons do with other policies, and here we believe we have achieved much more. As far as the refugee centres - migrants are concerned, you all know - and the Greek people know - that the infractions that exist there are very little. From there on, there is the more general refugee problem. That's another story. Not that there are signs and monsters, as you obviously want to present to create the image with your own colors. Your grey colors probably don't believe the Greek people and fortunately they don't believe them. Of course, the fact that you will show a different attitude with regard to the concentrations and all that you have implied, we are here to keep order by the legal means, with what the Constitution provides, with what the laws and as the will of the Greek people presupposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the seventh under number 787-14-2016 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the arrhythmias in the functioning of the NSA and the deterioration of the working conditions of its employees. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, Minister, because the subject of today's question, I certainly believe that it is not appropriate and it is not the case for party controversy, you will only allow me one point to be made of a fact which has to do with public security, but also with the way the Ministry is dealing with such phenomena. Minister, for the multiplier time, at the Kallidromi AT in Exarchia, there was, and you know it, a few weeks ago, an attack by strangers with molotovs. For the first time this attack was filmed, it took place in the middle of the day, uploaded to a well-known website as a trophy of war, but also as a propaganda tool. Minister, there can be no city that is favoured, where there is police forces everywhere, for anyone to do such actions. I am not saying anything else, so as not to take out of my time, but that the Ministry absolutely has to react. It is not possible to allow such phenomena to flourish, to move forward and it is not possible only by impunity that there will be a proliferation of such actions, if you like. I'm going to the matter of the National Intelligence Service. The officials and officials of this service, Minister, have limited constitutional rights and you know it and we all know it. This means that the state has increased commitments to them. It should protect them, especially when they are in greater than ever working insecurity. I'm talking about three things and I'm going to go back to my dentistry. The first is the question of wages, which has been pending for many years. The Association of Officials of the National Intelligence Agency has tabled a specific proposal since 2014 and I think we should even now see it with great care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request a tolerance of thirty seconds, Mr President. The second is the question of the movement of officials within the service. Minister, I think there should be a system here which is both objective and stable. You said - I read in a central newspaper - that you're going to make transfers to the National Intelligence Agency. I say to you this: Evaluate and protect the staff you have, which are mostly good employees, trained employees, have offered, and with high scientific, if you like, a level. And the third - and I count my words - protection means that the Ministry should not resort to movements of military or police officers in place of the civil servants of the National Intelligence Service. I am ending here to say this: in this context, Minister, because these officials have no voice or can have the voice of every civil servant, because they must not have it on the one hand, I think they also need the protection of the state on the one hand, but also the resolution of time-consuming problems. The National Intelligence Agency is not offered for partyisation, especially in such critical times, and you know that lately it has provided many services at home. We need a way of identifying these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr Toskas, Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, Mr Papatheodorou, there are obviously problems - I respond to the first point you raised - there are obviously new phenomena within the framework of security in our country. Our main aim is to make a contribution to the huge issue of refugee - immigration and, at the same time, to address the problems of classical policing. We believe that to a large extent this is done. There are problems like what you said that we are trying to deal with. But -please - see it within the overall grid rather than in isolation. Everything we see individually can give us the wrong angle. I'm going to the second topic, to the NSA thing. I have in front of me a letter from the federation and the primary unions, with which they say on 14-12-2015: "We are aware that we unanimously want to exclude workers from the National Information Service from the single payroll" and from there over time how the issue of the single wage for these people who actually work under peculiar conditions has to be assessed under peculiar conditions, if you like, in conditions of increased risk in many cases and this should be assessed by all governments. The subject of their evaluation, of course, is another story, many of these people are excellent. In October of '11-PASOK Government - the first exception was made to EUPM officials from the State's single wage. In November '12, the second exception to the second exception of the employees of the EIC from the single wage bill of the general government. In September of '15 today's administration re-quested it. On 14-12-2015, it is the letter I told you about. From there on, we see that there is a united desire for these people not to join a single wage, but to have another form of dealing with their wages, through joint ministerial decisions, which must indeed be dealt with and which has been delayed by the workers. As regards the transfers of ERC officials, in the summer of 2015, there were twelve transfers of officials. I have details, but you understand why I do not want to make it public. But I am now at your disposal to give you whatever details you want. In November 2015, due to the ongoing migration flows in the Aegean islands, some other transfers were made and in December 2015 nineteen employees were transferred to sensitive areas, for reasons relating to the differentiated situation and geopolitical and migration flows and the various other problems. As far as the militarisation of the service you refer to in your question is concerned, the military personnel who serves in certain positions, commensurate with the qualifications and qualifications required, are much less than is envisaged. It has not covered positions of political staff and obviously the people who asked you to ask the question are referring to some particular area I can tell you next, but they are not right and I stop there, without details. Therefore, the small number of these transfers that have taken place has been made for the reasons I have just mentioned. The rest I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u176	Convinced that this is a sensitive issue, as is the key service, therefore, Minister, I did not ask for any figures. I said: I said that as regards the protection and professional protection of civil servants, the first issue I mentioned was the wage bill. Indeed, a proposal has been tabled since 2014 - and I have the proposal, because due to speciality and parliamentary duties, I have been discussing with the civil servants of the service and it makes sense for the problems they face - not only an exception from the single wage, but a special salary, which is very important. I would ask you to look at it very sensitively, because it is only through you that this proposal can go through and reach the Minister of Finance. That's the first. Secondly, a few or a lot of transfers for a staff, which must be authorized for any action - and I am talking about civilian staff - from getting married until a region is changed, the issue that is facing is one: stability in criteria, not a few or a lot of transfers. For national reasons, you can transfer anyone you want, because the situation is such and because the employee needs it. But you know, when an employee of 1000 euros leaves one region to go, forgets his family, forgets everything to serve the country, there the country needs to make a move that gives him a little better for the sensitive part he serves. Thirdly, I understand the composition of the agency, but on the other hand we should see that the existing number of officials should receive a concrete answer to one point, that if we have criteria which are respected by everyone, objectively, if you want, for the movement of personnel, we should also have criteria for evaluation, so that these few, many, good people who exist can move forward and do not see the phenomenon of either dependants or party rule, which, in my view - and I have condemned them - do not think there should be any need for the National Information Service. There are too many models, Minister, throughout Europe for how these services work. What I am proposing to you is by your own contribution, because we have reached a limit point in defending the national interests, the interests of the country, that there should be such rules that, on the one hand, serve to protect the service and, on the other, to protect the employees. My question had this subject and I would like, above all, your commitment to mediate, so that there will finally be a movement, transfer, evaluation and rating system. The tiles have been frozen since 2012. We can unleash them - they do not create fiscal costs - so that there is a hierarchy and efficient and fair to people who have limited constitutional rights by the nature of their mission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u178	Mr Papatheodorou, on the subject of rules, I think you know that in this area I am serving, I am in favour of having rules adopted, rules that all respect them, regardless of the governments, regardless of any political preferences. And I believe that for this very sensitive service too, there should be rules, there should be a serious assessment and, based on these rules, there should be a judgement, a stay or leave the service, if you want me to speak harder. Because there, in this service, indeed, there must be the choice that the public space can gather. Because it is often seen as the fate of our country from the collection, processing, analysis of information and especially in the critical periods that we are going through with migratory flows, with critical situations, with risks, with geopolitical changes. The question of staffing, the functioning of staff in the NSA can only function by rules. We are open to any proposals you make. We are open to any debate on these issues, so that it is not a service whose staff are favoured or favoured by the government. We try to work without such criteria, work unbiasedly, and so we face staff. With that logic, we are open to any proposals you make and to any debate on these issues. I do not, of course, go into the details - neither you nor I - for good reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the tenth under No 729/1-4-2016 topical question by MP Carditsa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the establishment of an Immigration Centre at the Karditsa Police School. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Ciaras has the floor to develop his question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. First I wish Christ Anestis and Years of Years A lot, since it is the first meeting of the Greek Parliament after the great Easter festivities. I am returning to a simple question of parliamentary scrutiny already tabled, Mr Minister, by making it a topical question, because the answer I have received obviously does not satisfy neither me nor the local community of my city, Karditsa. There is a very big issue, which is essentially about the creation of an immigration hosting centre at the Carditsa Police School. And the issues that arise are too much - before you give me a specific answer - and they are mainly referring to the fact that the Cardiff Police School did not exist in the proposals of local bodies - it is assumed that any choice for a Immigrant Hospital would be made through consultation with the local authorities - that the Cardiff Police School is still supposed to expect students, students, in order to work, which might happen from the new year and also from the fact that there is absolutely no information at all at the Cardiff Police Directorate, when there is a request from its own side of relocation, to transfer it to the Cardica Police School facilities. All of these are issues that one needs to take very seriously, if one comes to a specific decision - a choice. And I say this because, without any trace of racist - if you like - mood, or on the other hand a position which would not give any help to all these people, any choice of the government, its coordinating body, the relevant minister, who may have the role of coordinator, should be in full agreement with the local society, when the local society has already indicated its own proposals. This proposal does not even exist or if it was the last in this series of any evaluation that could have been made. I would like your position, I would like your answer, in order to come back with a more specific argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. Mr Nikolaos Toskas, Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, Mr Chiara, many years from me. As far as the operation of the Hellenic Police Police Police School is concerned, you know that during the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 training years, due to the lack of ranking of police officers, the school did not work because there were no police officers introduced. Then, last year, in 2015, when the first wardens were introduced, they ran into three other areas in our country, in the Dumotich, in Komotini and in Rethymno. There are other schools, like in Karditsa, just like they're in Grevenna. Unfortunately, more schools have been created than we need, and I would say, and they have been created - and I understand that - and expectations and desire in the local communities for the operation of these schools, but data, realism, reality are different. Now, the issue was raised when the refugee problem arose and within these areas was also this school. It was not chosen for use in this area and why its capacity was small and why there were other thoughts. It wasn't chosen, anyway, for many and various reasons. Therefore, we are not in the process of preparing or setting up a refugee hosting centre in the area of the Police School. They're made, if you want, and mistakes. This place was offered by the State Building Society. It's practically a municipality area. And around 650,000 euros were given for expropriation of hosts of environmental land. There should be a different design in the previous years and there should be another distribution. Therefore, the issue of setting up a refugee hosting centre is not being addressed at the moment. Other sites have been selected. I know that local society is trying to reopen this school or get a solution through Carditsa Police. This is an issue that our services are studying in cooperation with local authorities and I wish we could find a solution so that we do not spend any money elsewhere and transfer the Carditsa Police Department to this place. The rest, if you'd like, I'll talk to you in my second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u184	Thank you again, Mr President. First of all, I am satisfied with your reply, Minister, and I must confess. As, of course, I am pleased that all these findings you have already made, in fact for me personally, were a very large part of my argument if you had a different viewpoint. And of course, I welcome you to the realism in which we must all be and possibly we must all meet politically. I am pleased that you have raised the issue of the possible reopening of the Carditsa Police School, because as you have seen - obviously by investigating it - you will see that there are so many positive points on which one can rely in order to select this school as one of the ones that could be reopened, which would probably be placed into immediate priority. If, of course, the government finds the economic potential for the Police Schools to reopen, it would probably rank the Cardiff Police School as a priority. I am pleased that, as you said, even at the moment, this issue is not dealt with, because at the same time I would give you a number of decisions - positions of local authorities in Carditsa society, who in a very specific way had demonstrated their complete opposition to the possible creation of an immigration hosting centre at the Carditsa Police School. However, a police school, which has all those criteria and all those conditions that enable it to really be one of the best police schools, should have the fate of reopening, if that is, of course, possible, as you said in your previous position. I hold your position that the possible creation of an immigration hosting centre at the Carditsa Police School is not being dealt with as a matter and I am not hiding you that your answer is satisfying me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. He has the floor for the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction to close with his denology, Mr. Toskas. Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Chiara, I would like to make a clarification so that it is not considered that I close my eyes or create wretched hopes in local communities. The reopening of this building as a School of Testament officers is not currently under way. But we are dealing with the transfer of the Carditsa Police Directorate, if legal problems are dealt with. In other words, in order to be clear, do not take the Cardits Police Department there and the municipality tells us "change use and then bring the space back". These are issues to which we will also be calling for the help of the local Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u187	This is the best solution at the moment for many reasons. Excuse me for interfering this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u188	I wish it would be solved, Mr Chiara, and not pay rent in the existing space. However, these legal difficulties must also be addressed so that we do not have a problem and the Cardiff Police Department remains without a building. It is a common desire for all of us to find the most economic, feasible, realistic solution in which we are all looking forward to this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are moving on to the last question for today. The ninth question will be discussed under number 766/11-4-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the "uncontrolled action of the Alps". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Toskas. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday to everyone, Christ Anestis, and I wish you a good period from now on and we will be done with the negotiation, so that the country can go ahead as well. This issue has dealt with all political parties. My question is a month old. I have followed Mr Mouszala's replies to a question from my colleague from the New Democracy, Mr Varvitsiotis. I am not going to use the whole text, but I would like you to know where we are now on the question of solidarity. I would like to know whether or not your Ministry - and as a government - has the supervision of all these people who have been acting - and I hope they will not continue - without control at the expense of the security of local society and at our borders, the national security of the country, by urging the unfortunate immigrants and not only those who are unhappy with the families of Syria, but also the Afghans, the Moroccans and Pakistanis to uprise and violence against local society, the authorities and the security authorities. First of all, I would like an update - and I will go back to my dentistry - on the issue that has arisen with the City Plaza. If we have any news, because I have a concern about the occupation there. I haven't written it, it just came up these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kammene, there are obviously solidarity and solidarity, obviously there are NGOs and NGOs, obviously there are international organisations aimed at addressing the humanitarian problems of refugees and migrants and there are other NGOs - we have said this on several occasions - which are particularly looking forward to the commercial use of the humanitarian crisis and there are solidaritys that actually offer, as are those who do, as are those who do, who do not respond to the demands of the state and create problems. You refer to your timely question, the incident of April 5, where some forty refugees, guided by some solidaritys, arrived in the Constitution, where they were treated in a dissuasive way without using force and were sent back there where they started, in Piraeus, without creating any problems, without achieving their purpose, to settle in the Constitution and without creating any conflict. Same in Idomenos you also refer to your timely question. There is material that has been given by the police to the public prosecutor, who, as far as I know, is conducting an investigation into the role of some people in this area. I'll let you know the guards have knowledge. The information that the authorities have about the role of some who do not seem to respect the law and the rules of the state is enough is such that we can act and deal with situations, but there are situations that want more systematic treatment. There are situations that are not treated with a police operation of aggressive form, such as Idomeni and like Piraeus. You have seen that the situation in Piraeus has been exterminated to a large extent and is being driven towards complete evacuation. The evidence we have, the efforts we are making for Idomeni are in a similar direction. In my dentistry, I can get into some details. Of course, you also hinted for some occupation. There's a problem with some occupations. There is a problem with arbitrary use of certain areas to which we are of course opposed, and of course we are concerned about how to deal with them. It will, however, be such a way that it will not trigger such situations in general, when we are going to resolve the problematic concentrations of Idol and Piraeus. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kammenos has the floor to speak on the second point which he implied at first. Mr. Cammane, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't need all the time. Minister, the news is encouraging. Over the past few days, we have not seen in the media, nor in the nationalities, nor in the foreign, some situations of dangerous or violent violence, either in Idomeni, Schisto or in Piraeus. It's a normal situation. The thing about me is not to create an activist movement on the back of the immigrants, because that's what went sometime, to become an activist, while it's not. It is purely humanitarian and we should see it as such and local communities see it, such as the Piraeus one where I am elected. The issue is not where I am elected or where you are. We have had many problems in Piraeus, but all Greece must feel security that the law and order are working, that the ministries and the government are there, just like the Port. The Minister for Maritime Affairs has done a good job in Piraeus, like us, the local MPs and the mayor. I'm talking about Piraeus because I know him very well. In all places, the local society must feel that we are next to it. Because if they close the road to you or shut down the National Road in the trucks, so that our products are not exported and the economy is damaged and people are troubled, or the lines of Idomen or again in a port, now that we have tourism, will be a problem that will bring us to the local society, which should not be done. Clearly, the stadiums of the NSA and the Greek Police are doing their job very well and they must be based on them. But we should kindly communicate it with the world, because at the moment many people, because - if you like - the media show another picture, does not understand how close the state is to it. You know what I'm saying. Without infringing the protocols of the confidentiality and secrecy of the Services, we should show that we are there, so that people feel a security. Finally, as regards the question of occupation, I should like to say this. We've seen occupations for too many years in too many buildings. It's a special case. It's a big building. It's not abandoned, but we have to be careful not to have an accident. I know you're doing your job well. We must not only mention it as a matter of fact, but we must be there, because if, despite hope - and I beat wood - an accident occurs because it is a large building and we do not know what is going on in it - who are doing, who gets in, if there are any sort of calibrations, as we have seen in the countryside, but which are also done in a closed space - this will bring Greece in a difficult or bad position to manage it afterwards as a crisis. I would like to mention this: because right now - and I put it publicly in the House - Mr Erdogan fired Mr Davoglou, we will have a crisis in Turkey. We must therefore be careful from Chios and from Mytilini and from Kos and from Samos what our tiles are there and manage - and especially from Chios - on the basis of the Agreement on the transition of migrants to Turkey in the coming days or in May and June, we must have our particular attention. I say this because things in Turkey are a little strange. I raise this issue for the Minutes and for you, for the Services, because it will be a pity in the tourist season not to predict a possible political crisis in Turkey which may have a good or bad effect on Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kammene, at the moment the forces of the Greek police and the Information Services are moving in such a way that they can deal with all situations. These powers have been exaggerated. They have obviously been struggling, but they are dealing with the situation and the problems are struggling. You saw with how much patience and professional perception police are facing from the cases of immigrants and refugees to the normal, classic policing and classroom issues. The various activists when they are not part of the state's direction do pose a problem. You saw that a number of problems were initially created on the islands with the NGOs. But this situation is reversed. The same goes for it in general. That is to say, the start of a shift of all these organisations and the 'convergences' - I can say - to playing a supportive role now and ending their pursuit - which at the moment seemed to be playing a key role. All these efforts must play a supportive role in the sovereign role of the state. At the moment, it is time for the state to deal with all these situations. It seems that both international organisations and NGOs and all those who help have accepted these priorities and these roles. But there are indeed problems and risks. That is why it is us and we are trying to convince ourselves first and secondly to impose the rules of the game, the rules of operation of the state. We are of course opposed to the closure of roads and railways. You saw - or might not see - that some attempts to close roads in some cases have been dealt with lately and these roads have been opened immediately. There is the problem of the railway line in Idomeni, which we have set as the first priority, and we are looking with confidence, with pressure and with various other ways in the next few days to bring about a result. We are working in this direction, so that we can deal with the problems, but also not to incite situations, because that is the great risk: to solve a problem today and to create ten for tomorrow. So we are moving in this direction, in organised terms, and - I can say from the point of view of the forces of order - in the scientific response to the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u197	We, too, thank the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolao Toska, as he answered many questions today. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S1-commons.u198	With the consent of the House at no time of 13.06, the sitting is closed for Thursday, May 5, 2016, at 17.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
