ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The fourth question will be discussed under number 551/16-2-2016, first question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the 2014-2020 rural development programme. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Greece has been fighting for years to address the results of the major crisis that broke out in 2009. After a five-six-year-old struggle I would say - since 2008, for the first time in December 2014, we could make a positive account of the positive growth rate that has returned to our country, as well as of the positive result that we had in closing the major deficits that we received in 2009. The annual deficit of 36 billion has now been a past, at least in terms of its primary part. At the same time - rightly to some extent - the opposition said that there was prospects, that the insurance could give a third pension, that HPAI could be abolished, that there could be a tax-free EUR 12 000, that there could be a EUR 751 reward and that workers' wages would be increased both in the private and public sectors. However, since December 2014 - and throughout Europe because of the quantitative relaxation and because of the positive pace of all the economies of Europe and because of the overall climate and lastly because of the very low price of oil at international level - our country seems to be moving back instead of following this rate. And we have new tax-support measures, a new burden, which is not justified by European and international developments. What was interfered? Citizens know. The rule of SYRIZA and the "first left" and the second. I would therefore like to say that the Rural Development Programme - which under the common agricultural policy concerns the development component - includes a very important amount together with national funding and private financing, which can give a prospect and put a brake on the recession in which we have entered. So I specifically ask when the implementation of this programme, which was started from Mr Tsautaris' time and which was completed in 2015 with the European Union's approval, what is the role of the regions and what is the first measures to open up and when, what time will they open? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u4	First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the question, because it is very important to use whatever funds the country has as a tool to support entrepreneurship, producers' initiatives in the primary sector to support local economies as a whole, but also the national economy. A common practice in the Chamber is to claim that we all did it well and others did it all wrong. I am not a rapporteur for this principle. I would therefore like to remind you that the first plan for the Rural Reconstruction Programme was submitted to the European Union for approval in July 2014. I would remind you that it is the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. This programme has received four hundred fifty observations. In other words, a volume has been returned from Brussels, which I have, and I shall submit it to the Minutes for history. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Markos Bolaris, presents for the minutes the abovementioned volume, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In order to address all these four hundred fifty observations, working groups had to be set up, which examined one of the comments. The remarks came from Europe in December of '14. The teams worked. For them to be able to deal with, in fact, the programme with interventions, improvements to meet the four hundred fifty observations and we had been approved on 11 December, i.e. two months ago. You are aware that the agency in 2015 the management, this one, had a laborious effort to deal with the payments of the whole programme. He had a strong effort not to lose money. That's what was consumed. It closed the programme well and we now have in front of us about a month and a half where all the interest in the service and the Ministry is focused on building the new programme with the rules that have been laid down so that we can have the maximum possible effect. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I shall continue in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u6	There's always excuses. Sometimes real, sometimes genuinely invoked, because, unfortunately, there is also a delay in political leadership, but also in service, less. And I say less, because the services in question have shown that they have worked both in the past and now they are conscientiously in order to implement the programmes concerned. When a programme is drawn up, it takes a particular time and it is submitted - I did not intend to talk about it - in July of '14 - final submission - it has been prioritised and consulted and any comments there are, which may be from a party to substantial, no matter how many, cannot be needed from there and over a whole year to be corrected and approved. We have experience of the preparation and submission of programmes and I think there has been a delay. But that is not what we are dealing with today, to justify the delay in 2015 and the inertia. Besides, you weren't all this time in the Ministry's political leadership. The question is whether the interventions made by the Greek Government and requests changes that were not in the Commission's comments were essential and necessary to implement the programme. Because these interventions, Mr Minister, have created the biggest problem. Mr. Lafazanis had given an order, which was to change the program in a particular direction. Proposals were submitted, which were actually delayed, but these were not because the programme was not complete, but because it wanted to change it, to do so differently. Look, as soon as possible, the implementation of this programme begins, the better for the country and for the agricultural sector, although the parallel measures of the programme - that is, the overtaxation of the agricultural sector with which the government is trying to present the tax sector - say that production is overtaxing. At 12,000 income, you invite him to pay 9,500 tax, tax advance, ELGA contributions, OGA. And if it's winemaking, and it's got no small unit, huh, it's over. At the same time, invoke the compensation, which is the tax of 12 000 of the subsidy. What do you say to the farmer, who has an income of 10,000 today? "Come invest, update your production to make more and overtax you?" or "Resurrect to 12,000 of the subsidy that is tax-free?" This is the big problem, that the Rural Development Programme on the one hand must soon be launched, because it will indeed give a breath in the sector and, on the other hand, it is within a suffocating framework of a parallel programme, but not at the same time as you meant, but suffocating, production over-taxation, please. So, in order to be able to talk in the next few months, the framework will have to be changed. Of course, for the Rural Development Programme, I would like you to tell me when the actions as I asked you will begin - in your second speech if you can - and what measures we will have to start. What will be the role of regions that are important from initial planning if it continues to be? And of course, what will be burdened with safeguarding cofinancing resources, if there have been agreements with the banks, if they finance the part concerning private investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kegeroglu, put a perfect question and a question. Mr Marcos Bolaris, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I think I was clear when I told you that four hundred and fifty comments were made by the European Commission in the first part. For the second part. In order to be able to operate the Rural Development Programme, it is necessary to set up and set up the Monitoring Committee. The recommendation and the establishment, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, must be completed by 11 March 2016. In the next twenty days, therefore, we have, as the Rules of Procedure provide, not for the country but for all European countries, the establishment and establishment of the project monitoring committee. This Commission has been set up and set up for a month to meet in order to define criteria and to deal with the institutional framework. We therefore have two formal actions in front of us in the next few weeks. In terms of management, the Ministry has set up a working group responsible for the next few weeks to draw up the criteria for selecting measures, sub-measures and actions for the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. Then we have the meeting with the bodies, because we have the appropriate enforcement bodies, because you know that the management is the authority that oversees it. It is the competent bodies that will implement each measure and every action of the programme. For all procedural reasons, we therefore have started implementation and in the next few weeks we have the institutions on which the implementation is going. Since the second part of your question concerns the regions, I would like to say to you - I read the text on 22 January 2016 - that for the first time it is the first programme to which institutionally confers management and enforcement powers and actions of the Rural Reconstruction Programme on self-government regions. It is also provided for in this allocation and that is 37%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u9	From the original program.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u10	And this is the first time that a programme has been allocated to the self-government regions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u11	From the original proposal and that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister, for respecting time. The first under number 556/16-2-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the delay in tabling a bill concerning the regulation of residence permits and work for illegally staying migrant workers of the land, will not be discussed because Mr. Musalas is abroad accompanying the Prime Minister. Also, the second question under number 539/15-2-2016, first question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the "leaving" of investments, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The first question under number 555/16-2-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the investigation of incidents of police violence and arbitrariness. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Toskas. Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Our question is about police violence and arbitraryness, a phenomenon that is timeless and permanent and not just about this government. We have to recognise that with both SYRIZA governments, but in particular with you, we have changes encouraging in this area, but we also want them more bold and want them to be reflected in institutional and structural terms so that it does not depend on the government and the Minister concerned. However, recently, we have seen facts like the MATs beating elderly people in the mobilisation of PAME, the MATs climbing a chair against a citizen - we assume they are a citizen - to break cars. Recently, the counterterrorism agency in the GDR took with terrifying DNA force from Aspiotus on 6-2-2016. Then he was taken to the hospital, we have the opinion of the hospital, and we have the complaints of his lawyer and so on. The law says DNA must be made compulsory, but with respect for human dignity. That's not how it happened. Also, we recently had the ratification by the Council of State of the decision of the Administrative Court of Thessaloniki concerning the "zardinier" case, an older case, of course, police arbitrariness. The fine that the state will pay to the Cypriot student as a moral compensation is 300 thousand and with interest he goes to 450 000 euros. So we have repeated incidents of police arbitrariness over time. We have convictions from the European Court of Justice. The Citizen’s Counselor tells us that the investigation usually does not lead to disciplinary action. It is completed by formalities of the press, 'no responsibilities arise' or 'complaints are found unfounded', because some of the police officers or colleagues involved are lying. It is therefore arbitrary phenomena fuelled and structurally impunity, and this must be changed. With all the insights of all the international organisations, an independent body of investigation and punishment is needed. So we ask: When will this be? Give us an answer and a timeline. Second question: in the recent cases of arbitraryness I mentioned, what action have you taken or will you take to account of the police officers involved? The third question concerns the 'zardinier' case, beating, that is, the Cypriot student, who, as we all remember, was shocking. The police are still working at the Greek police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u14	Before I give Mr Toska the floor, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty one students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd Agia Varvaras Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, Mrs Catrivanou, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of humanism and individual freedoms also touch us all, and they also touch this government. This does not mean, of course, that all these issues have been solved or solved by pressing on a button, which indeed want the appropriate institutional framework and the similar attitudes to be established. It takes a lot of effort, and that is why more general consensus is needed within this area, but also controls. You do well to mention them, because we want this democratic control, to improve and improve situations that, unfortunately, were years old and, unfortunately, had been established or passed, as if nothing had happened, as if the violation of human freedoms were a small thing that we could pass in the interests of a more general interest. Indeed, we need to look at the various issues of social relations, violations, the order and policing of the country, but we need to see them within a framework of serving the social community as a whole and safeguarding the individual freedoms that you are doing and putting it at the heart of interest. Here I would like to say that we should not highlight or mix up very old issues, such as the 'zardinier' case, with today's issues, because I feel a little wrong in this case. In particular, such incidents are not presented with the current government and we are not prepared to tolerate them and you know it well. With regard to the other issues you are talking about, the issues of dealing with elderly people from MATs in a violent way, although I personally have quite a number of questions - the FME itself in this area has not been mentioned, another independent MEP has been mentioned - and it is currently being examined and examined by administrative authorities. With regard to the damage caused by police officers and this is an administrative examination, as well as to the other violence you say. In other words, we are dealing with these issues. I do not answer you at the moment with the classic answer that is commonly used, that there is an administrative examination, that we are owling it and leaving. Because you have seen it since the first time I took over from the Ministry, that the first thing I tried to make clear, to see what is happening, was the issue of beating and the violent treatment of young people in the region of Exarches. So we're trying to create attitudes, we're trying to figure things out, and we're not trying to cover things up. With regard to the case of Aspirate, you highlight, and the way in which DNA material is received, provided by law, when the prisoner voluntarily refuses to give a DNA sample, procedures are provided for. We believe that there was no violation of these rules. During the process of obtaining biological material, the prisoner showed a negative attitude and aggressive behaviour. He then asked to transfer to the hospital a claimed injury challenge. He was transferred to the hospital. The hospital's report has been given to the Public Prosecutor and, once the person allegedly indicted has been indicted, we will immediately initiate the procedures for an administrative examination of the matter. We do everything we can - you can be sure - on these issues. If you wish in my dentistry I will answer the other questions you have raised, because I see, Mr President, that time does not allow me to do so now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u16	Mrs. Catrivanu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that we too recognised the changes that have been made and said that we want them more bold to be reflected in the construction process. Secondly, the 'zarnier' case is not about this government and I said it. It's just because the Argentine Ice has now been identified by the authentication of the fine, which is why I'm bringing her here. And my question was: Are the cops still accountable for this work? I want to say something specifically about the Aspirate case. The law, of course, says that DNA should be taken with respect for personality. This means that DNA can be taken from cigarette, wool or anything else. The prisoner doesn't have to fight, because we both know about it from the lawyer and from the hospital where he went with beaten ribs, swallowed the battery with punches - as happened. I mean, it was wild. That doesn't suit us. It can be done in other ways. But I want to stay on the subject of the SADs. I have noticed that these issues are being chased and you order immediately to become SADs. But we know that these EDPS have serious deficiencies most of the time. They're poor, and there's structural deficiencies. And that's what everyone tells you. And all the international organisations and recently the UN Commission on Human Rights is proposing to you that an independent body be set up. In other words, it is not possible for the audited and audited to be involved on a service basis, because that is part of the problem. Yannis is buying, he's drinking. Those who control are also those who have committed the arbitrary nature that we blame them on. It's the same system. We also know that there is in your mind a case-by-case arbitrary investigation office. This is a positive move. We believe, however, that it does not fulfil the guarantees proposed by all the international organisations because it is subject to the Ministerial Office. We insist on the need for an independent body. And we think that this request is too immature. And you, Minister, hope that you have the will - and we think you have the will and the ability to satisfy it - now to do this incision, which will remain. Don't make an office that comes under the Minister and the Minister changes and the government changes. Make this incision. Let the SYRIZA government create the independent body, which everyone says is needed, to deal with structurally and effectively with police arbitrariness. I think it is a challenge to which you can and I hope you want to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u18	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u19	As far as police officers who were punished for the incident of the 'zardinier' incident are concerned, three of them have been punished with a higher disciplinary penalty and two with a lower disciplinary penalty. From a criminal point of view, two of the police who were punished with a higher disciplinary sentence were found guilty and sentenced to prison, while the others were acquitted. The third police officer who was punished with a higher disciplinary sentence asked for a repetition of the trial and the disciplinary board considered him to be an undisciplined elephant. As regards the arbitrary management office, which was planned to be set up on the basis of L.4249/2014, there are ultimately practical and legal problems for the establishment of this office. We are confronted with the code of lawyers, we are confronted with the problem of remuneration for these people and we will need an amendment to the institutional framework, because we find no other way to solve this and implement this office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u20	Make the independent body. Don't make it subject to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u21	I have no objections, as long as there is such a mechanism that operates rather than is on paper. Because right now, it's on paper and I don't feel at all good saying it, but that's the reality, which, as you know, I have no desire to hide. Every proposal that can be implemented is welcome. As far as the way this office is dealing with incidents of violence and being more than anything else, if you want, and above the Minister, I have no objections, so as not to cover matters and to create a framework of this kind which will last, apart from governments and ministers, for real control. I want the help of my fellow Members in this area in order to move on with these matters of control, because - believe me - I do not have a bundle or a state of affairs. We need to create a framework that has an duration that is effective and indeed reduces cases of arbitraryness, which unfortunately still exist, but which we are not prepared to keep for a long time yet. The attitudes change very quickly. The police are currently committed, most of all, to their duty. They work day and night. You see them on the street and you see how to deal with harsh situations, protests, not easy situations, which are done in as mild a way as possible, but - I think - efficiently. [[At this point, the end of the time bell of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] We are moving in this direction. We don't hide the problems, we try to improve them and we want your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Minister. The third, with number 544/15-2-2016, a top-stage question for the Greek Parliamentary I-Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Anthony Gregos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "Turkish manipulation" to create "grain zones" in the Aegean, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The fifth under number 552/16-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafili to the Ministers of National Defence and Foreign Affairs on NATO's involvement in the Aegean Sea will not be discussed because the relevant Minister, Mr. Kammenos, is in Israel for an official visit. The sixth question under number 538/15-2-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the favourable treatment of the Athens Concert Hall, will not be discussed after consultation of the questioner and the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u24	Wait, Mr. Cammene, for the other question you have the luck of answering. Be patient. The second question under number 540/15-2-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the review of student relocations. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, recently the Minister at a student delegation meeting confirmed her intention to receive a transfer from students who have five molecules or more. Indeed, according to the statements made by the Minister, the procedure for setting up the Committee of Objections would be accelerated by adopting the relevant ministerial decision. I would like to highlight to you and to the House, but to learn from Greek citizens, that in this year's academic year 2015-2016 there have been many problems both in programming and in the realisation and valid completion of student translations. These are malfunctions caused by the change in the law of remnants, which took place last summer, July 2015, for which responsibility lies exclusively with the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the previous and current political leadership. The only criterion that has been taken into account - and it was the most basic - was income, i.e. the economic criterion. I have this point to make: if a family has an income of EUR 10,001, it gets no molecules, it gets zero molecules, whether this income is real or imputable. With cybercrime, the Ministry was then forced to attempt to give a definition - it is here and the Minister responsible - what is income. However, the family that has 10,001 euros of income cannot study, not one, in many cases and two children in different cities. So there is a need to review the whole framework for the next academic year, so that in time families can know what the institutional framework for the relocations is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I'll take a minute from my dentistry, Mr. President. In universities, there are no malfunctions, they should be completed soon and they should know who their students are attending each semester. Already by the fact that the relocations were announced in Genaris, the students who received relocated have lost in the first semester and issues arise if they can go to the halls, to the universities, if vacant posts have been provided for these children, if they can be fed. These are a series of problems. I would therefore like you, Minister, to tell us - since the committee is working and as far as I know it has results in the Ministry's objections - what you intend to do next year, if you intend to rethink the question of the economic criterion and, in particular, what you intend to do for families who maintain three houses. It's a very big problem. I can tell you some thoughts that will be expressed in my dentistry. You will also tell us whether you will review the gravity factors of other criteria, such as tritecx, luxury or other social criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Style, you asked your question on 26 January. You probably did not follow the follow-up, because immediately the next day, on the 27th of January, a ministerial decision was made by me to be able, in accordance with my commitment to students and students who came and visited me in my office, to expand the list of successful relocations from about 4,500 to more. So we gave the right to requests for treatment. Already on February 15, 2016, the first dominating table came out, I signed the first ratification table, which gave translations to another four hundred thirty two students. Yesterday, the second painting with which five hundred seventy students were renamed came out. So we have a thousand students. We have the exceptional transcriptions, which for the first time the committee sees the cases of people who have real needs, mainly from diseases and others and not only from conventional criteria, but also from criteria that have never existed, namely personalised ones. A student, for example, with parents imprisoned and orphanage, gets a transcript, of course, as well as some such cases. You referred to the previous law, Mr. Baltas's Law No.4332, on the translations. You forget, Mr Style, one thing: After the regulation of Mr. Loverdos, according to which all the students who applied for were renamed, we had recourse to university departments in the Council of State. And the Council of State made a decision that more than 10% of the relocations are not allowed for each section. Not for every university in general, for every department. So the divisions gave us reception molecules. The weighting that we should have done - and that is what I tried to do with the ministerial decision - is to have the confidence of the applicants for relocation and not just their confidence, but to help them to implement their studies of children who are from low-income families or who have other needs, but also to balance the good functioning of the departments. It's not the law that blocked the transcripts that someone from our government did something so bad. They are the same parts that appealed because they could not, especially some of the Athens and Thessaloniki departments. So we had to weigh the two. As far as molecules are concerned, you say that there are only income criteria. I think that they are the most objective criteria and that they do not exist for others. There is for the luxury, there is for the threeteenth and beyond the threeteenth, if they study students, if the family itself has students in a different city, it gets an extra molecule. Look, the social criteria have molecules, the extra, the many molecules, the income criteria are taken, because you understand a third family does not automatically become under low income criteria. A third family, however, with low income criteria has many molecules for this and has extra molecular molecules. So we also have social factors, but the economics exist, because we have considered it the most objective criterion. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] But I will tell you that you are right in one thing and we are also studying it: because of the really bad economic situation in the country over the last five years - six years, we have many applications for relocations, but we cannot charge all the departments, especially the centre. Because in the region we have no problem, we got them all those who requested relocation. It is, to tell you specifically, eight sections of Athens that create the problem. So we need to find - and there any proposal is welcome, we are working on it - a legislative framework which will be guaranteed by the retransmissions. And you're right. There's no fairer system. There isn't, unfortunately. I wish there were. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing on several occasions by the Secretary of State at the end of the speech bell.]] That's why the income criteria make sure it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u28	Madam Secretary, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u29	I'm sorry, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u31	Very briefly, Mr President, I have been covered by the Minister. I would also like the Minister to know that I am following the issues of the Ministry, especially this sensitive subject of the relocations, because of the economic crisis of the last five to six years, because I know my fellow citizens, I know families in Arta, in the area I live in, in my country, and in the rest of Greece, who really have an objective problem of being able to cope with their children, provide them with what the Greek family wants, see our new generation study and study and fulfill their dreams and become better citizens. We'll check you, we'll criticize you, we'll make suggestions. It's acceptable that the objective problem you're saying is acceptable. I too recognise that all the translations cannot be satisfied. It is a thought - and it is a good idea in the way you have expressed it - that in regional universities - from regional to regional to department - there could be greater flexibility and greater comfort. There, of course, you should bear in mind that some sections - for example in Patras, the Department of Informatics Engineering, which is the only one in the country and is not from regional to regional - want particular criteria and greater attention, so that we do not have other problems of malfunctioning in the department. I am also a graduate of this department and I know very well what has happened along the way. Madam Minister, I am looking forward to what you have said. We expect some objective criteria. This is what we seek, more institutionally and more objectively and more quickly and more timelylyly, that the relocations can be announced so that the families also have found their way, but also the Ministry does not have to deal with these issues and make other policies. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u32	I wish it were only you, Mr. Style, who know such families. But here we are, and we've received complaints. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u33	I thank Mr Stylion, and I would like to say something that he recognises, and we all recognise it, especially when we are in contact with the applicants and their parents. Problems are too much. And you're right when you're wondering if he's rich when you have 10.001 euros. What's rich enough to be able to study and not be allowed to translate? As you can see, from where we are, we've seen all possible cases. I wish everyone could have been transliterated or I wish we had been able as a state, during the period when the fat cows existed, to have made such student care that the transcripts don't need, to have homes and feeding everywhere. I say again that the problem - and we have now seen it with applications for treatment - is that we have eight departments in Athens. But come here, where most people want to come! We cannot - it is illegal and unconstitutional on the basis of the Council of State - more than triple the number of these sections and given - and at the responsibility of all of us, but also of myself, of the same I am talking about - that these departments, such as all universities and the TEI, are underfunded. So we can't charge them the social policy we all want to do. It is not possible for this social policy to be entrusted to the highest institutions. As far as the province is concerned, my partner has actually made a record of all the data available, to see how we will proceed to another regulation. What we can see is that the province, the provincial universities and the TEI really must not be depreciated. I mean, they need to be strengthened. So what we need to take care of with good is to strengthen student care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u34	As regards the last thing you said, Minister, let me ask you to take it to the Dean of the University of Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u35	I've already carried it and it'll take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. As for the fat cows, they were sacrificed to the altar of a false welfare! At this point, I would like to inform you that the third with number 537/15-2-2016 is a topical question for the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, on the need to adapt the legislation governing the status of "trainers" to the transitional schools of adults of the Centre for the Treatment of Independent Greeks (CTE) will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. The fourth under number 481/2-2-2016 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition, Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation and modernisation of the necessary institutional framework for the rapid response of public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies to our country, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the relevant Minister. The fifth question, under number 511/9-2-2016, of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Helena Rapti, to the Minister of Health, concerning the revocation of decisions devaluing innovative services from the Institute of Health of the Child, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Finally, the seventh question under number 472/1-2-2016, on the establishment of the Centre for Refugees in Sindo, will not be discussed because Mr. Mousalas is abroad. The sixth question will be discussed under number 522/9-2-2016 by MP 2 in the Greek Independent Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos on the fines of the National Broadcasting Council (ESC) in the Media of Mass Information (MEP). Mr. Kammenos's timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Trophe Alexiadis. But before I give the floor to Mr Kammenos, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation, sixteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Haillandri Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Finally, MP Mr.Metarakis Panagiotis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad, namely in London from 4 March 2016 to 6 March 2016 for family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Luck favors those who fall in love and work. And it favours me, too, to ask very often, but it favours the dear Minister, who is a lightning exception to many others, who, all right, have a lot of work, but he comes and answers the questions. Minister, according to the timely question I had tabled on 2-2-2016 under protocol number 493, on the fines of the National Broadcasting Council in the media, it emerged from official evidence that the media owed EUR 13,981,000, which have not been collected in relation to the charged ones. I would also like to thank you very much for the other table you have presented, the full analytical - so we do not have to present it at the moment - where we see how many fines have been deleted by DUs. I shall also speak in my dentistry on this subject. However, as far as the debts of the media to tax, VAT, income tax, payroll tax and advertising tax are concerned, I would ask you to give us everything you have found to complete the dossier, of course, in view of the procedure of the honourable Minister, Mr Pappas, on the licensing of the new channels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr von Wogau, it goes without saying that - and I have explained it many times too often - we should answer Members' questions and be here as far as our ministerial duties allow us. Of course, I have explained by letter to the President of Parliament that, in my case, consistency is being punished. Because there are cases where I answer topical questions and on Monday and Thursday and Friday. And I appeal publicly to the ministers to meet in a maximum of one or two days so that we can answer them. Otherwise, there is a great problem of meeting the other tasks of the ministries and the obligations we have. As far as the information you requested is concerned, I shall submit in the minutes the relevant document of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue. I stress that they are the elements of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue from TAXIS. It's not Alexiadis or any political person. Because we want to bring the services data here. We don't keep the records and procedures in the Treasury. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] According to these figures, for the years 2009-2015, which you are asking for in your question, for the legal persons to whom the PPE has been charged - because we could not in such a short period of time find the data for all natural and legal persons - and without including the information, the assurances from checks, conclusion or arrangements for the submission of late declarations, the resulting data are: As far as value added tax is concerned, the debts are currently EUR 11.693.000, the income of legal persons EUR 2.67 000, the payroll tax of EUR 6.241.000 and the television advertising tax of EUR 15.270,000. These are the elements that the General Secretariat of Public Revenue has provided me with a document on 12-2-2016. Of course, for these things, you will not see any broadcasts or reports, but you will see more in all the news releases common to blame you and me for these things. There's a huge issue. I would like to make it clear, however, that we do not blame, of course, certain businesses and businessmen. These are elements which we have to submit to the Greek Parliament. It is possible that many of these debts are already regulated. There are likely to be many of these debts in court. It is possible that many of these debts are in other procedures. We are not saying that these debts are all unregulated or are not served. We submitted concrete evidence both last time and now. We hope that we will not see any more communications, like last time, that these debts concern only some cases and not all of Greece. These debts relate to both Athens and the Region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u42	Minister, thank you very much. The numbers are impressive. But here we are not to make political fireworks, nor to impress anyone. The Greek economy is in recession. The media, like all companies in Greece, like all Greek taxpayers and all legal persons operating in the country, must fulfil and fulfil their obligations towards the public. I, too, repeat that we clearly need to see whether all of this is regulated or whether it is in arbitration or in any other judicial dispute with the public. Nevertheless, the numbers are quite high, EUR 11.650 000 in VAT, EUR 2.267 000 in income tax, EUR 6.241 000 in payroll tax - that is, the reservations made by our employees to pay payroll a tax every month of EUR 6.20,000 - and the television advertising tax - a huge amount - EUR 15.27 000. For all of this, I will be able to give you an introductory statement - because I will put a question - not topical - asking for some clarifications and information on these figures, so that we can see what phase they are in, so that we can clear up the picture and have a clear answer to the debts of the channels, which will certainly not play our questions at night, of course, by making polls, as we have seen in the last few days, by making various situations and mocking many political parties and people and many of the recent political history. Nevertheless, because, as I have said to my previous question, the media and television and radio stations have a huge responsibility for the political crisis - and for the economic crisis, I would say, and I have analysed it other times - in this country, we should all be careful and at least equal to the law, to pay our obligations and not benefit from any political leadership, let alone from our own government, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. I would like to say for the minutes that from the fines of the PSE, from the table I have, there is a deleted amount from the DU Great Business, FAO Athens, Halandri, Kallithea, Neos Heraklion and FAE Piraeus 4.100,000 euros. It's deletion of fines. I will come back and ask why 4,000,000 euros were cancelled, when 17,000 euros were charged, 8,000,000 euros were paid, 4,000,000 euros were cancelled, and there is a balance from these five DU 4,800,000 euros. It is unpaid 4.800,000 euros and 4.100,000 euros have been erased! Why were they erased? And for the rest of Greece - because I told you only about Athens - the amount deleted is EUR 2,000,000, the EUR 6,200,000 established, the EUR 1,300 000 received and the remaining EUR 2,857,000. In other words, we have remissions of EUR 6.500,000 of the FAA fines. It's probably legal. There's probably been objections. They've probably been vindicated. However, since the large sums are in the Athens FAA, in which many television and broadcasting companies are active, the sums deleted are EUR 4,500,000. In a total of 13,500,000 euros were collected 5,740,000 euros, 3,500,000 euros were written off and it is only a remnant in Athens FAO 4,300,000 euros. I will come back to see them, because the picture will have to be clear. As the General Secretariat of Income makes clear and you - and by e-mail and by telephone - all Greek taxpayers and all companies must regulate and be in line with their obligations towards the public sector, so at least television channels must be at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr Kammenos, for keeping time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u44	It is clear, Mr President, that the Ministry of Finance will not copy the tactics of the past, where the tax administration and the tax controls were used either to leak information and to "shock" political opponents, or to direct controls, or in general to use what we say "the state" to "shock" political opponents. That was in a previous political period. We will not do so now, despite the fact that the war we accept is clear, the mud, the misinformation on many issues, not all the media, but a portion of them. You talked about polling too. I think that those who have studied financially, in 2015 made us understand what the relationship between some polling companies is with numerical and logic. However, as far as the issues of the deletions you have raised are concerned, it is clear that we have write-offs for various reasons. It may be judicial decisions, it may be a series of other procedures. Whatever's going on, the Treasury will answer because it has nothing to hide. Let me make it clear, however, on the basis of my opportunity, that we do not have data as political leadership - and we should not have - per company as to what it owes or what it is doing. We have a general picture of what's going on. So no one has to hurry to make announcements today or tomorrow, saying: “What is Alexiadis saying? We have adjusted our debts,” and so on. We did not say that they hadn't adjusted the debts. We said there were debts. In another broadcasting field, the company's news notes, whether on television or radio, would start by passing a film, as I have said before, that 'our company's debts are these, these too'. Because we hear various things and criticism and a thousand and two, but even know what happens to such companies, what lending they have, what debts they have, how those who are prosecutors and judges of everything worked. We, therefore, have explained and provided information on what debts are and on the table you said before, it seems that there is no point in the argument that there are regional stations. Because I don't understand how a station from my country, Kavala, will come to make a company at the Athens FAO. The IRS of Kavala seems to be his debt. As far as what we are doing from now on is to know that there is already a document from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue on all taxes, so that there is a intensity of controls and procedures in terms of the collection of these amounts. It is a specific institutional framework. I've been talking about it for the last time. We will not use it to create a problem to anyone, but we will not let anyone, as has been the case in the past, use any "little" of the law, political friendship or political influence, so as not to pay what they have to pay to the Greek public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis, and those ministers who attended and answered questions. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We are adjourned and will be back at 12 noon on legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the quorum has been established, and the sitting is repeated. Before entering the legislative agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and three educational attendants from the High Schools of Imathia and thirty-three students and two educational sessions from the 3rd Kozanis Gymnasium, II. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Measures to speed up governmental work and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents, at its meeting on 16 February 2016, decided to discuss the draft law in two meetings. I would like to draw the attention of the Members of Parliament for a proposal I would like to make so that today's meeting can be made more operational. I therefore propose that today the debate be made uniform, in a timely manner - I will explain what I mean - for speakers, so that tomorrow, which the heads of the parties will probably talk about, there will be time to speak on the amendments and on the articles by the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives. It goes without saying that both the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives are speaking today, with the time being. As for my fellow Members, because they compact their speeches today and tomorrow, instead of seven minutes, I suggest that they have ten minutes of time, and we will see when the meeting will end, depending on how many will be registered. I think we'll be through very late at night. In any case, we have no problem with time today. All the time we're done tonight. But tomorrow, with the proposal I make to you, I think we will have the opportunity to finish around four to five, otherwise tomorrow we would go at midnight. So, for one minute, one of the parliamentary representatives will please be placed on this proposal. Because it is a small change in relation to the decision of the Conference of Presidents, we need to know whether or not you agree. I don't give you time, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u48	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I will not disagree with your proposal. But let me take advantage of my time to make a point of order. Mr President, I am addressing you and I would like you to address this criticism of both the Bureau and the Government. The House is to legislate, not to exploit itself as the government's communication mechanism. I say this, Mr President, because while we are at a critical moment, with the financial problems open and with the assessment being open, Mr Tsakalots also admits the risk of moments - and with national issues open, Parliament is using communication and I am now supporting it: it has been rolling out a whole week and we have not used the time to discuss this bill and we are coming to discuss it at the end of the week, Friday and Saturday, and I ask you a question: Why should we now discuss this draft, when there has been a lot of time all week? I would ask you, Mr President, to convey the New Democracy's criticism of this unacceptable function of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u51	Just to inform you, Mr Brutsi, I would like to say that this criticism was exercised by the parliamentary representatives of the parties at the Conference of Presidents, hence a majority decision. However, anyone else wants to talk about it for a minute will have the floor. I don't see Mr. Panayotar. Mr. Pappa, do you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u52	I have not heard the proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u53	You didn't hear the proposal. The proposal I made was as follows: Parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs, special speakers speak today and tomorrow, after the Heads of State and Government. I have proposed to the ordinary speakers today that I give them an extra time instead of seven minutes to speak for ten minutes and also to speak for the first time on the articles, so that tomorrow we can save some time, not to finish as tonight, after the twelfth night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u54	I think that morning - but in the morning, they will also be able to speak Members tomorrow, because this House must not be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u55	The meeting will start tomorrow with the parties' leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u56	It is not just the Heads of State or Government who should speak. What role do parliamentarians play?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u57	Your special speaker will be able to speak, as will your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u58	Oh, no. I'm talking about the MPs who want to be placed, given time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u59	The proposal is the MPs today, instead of speaking for seven minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u60	And if it is not enough, Mr President, to go on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u61	You were at the Conference of Presidents and you know the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u62	It was a majority decision. It was you, too. I didn't even place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. By a majority. I did. You weren't in the Chamber. I said it, Mr Pappa, and said that the whole opposition disagreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, because Mr Panayotarus has an unsuccessful obligation for a couple of hours in a deadlock...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u65	In any case, he is a parliamentary representative. He can talk whatever he wants. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u66	I'm replacing him for this two-hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u67	It's okay. Mr Loverde, you have the floor on the proposal I have made and for one minute for what else you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, since the time has increased for Members and since tomorrow on the articles and many amendments, the special speakers, the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives have the floor, we have no reason to say 'no'. We agree. It's a good suggestion. We will be able to have a good debate here on a draft law with serious issues. As far as the procedure is concerned, we all knew that on Wednesday at 6 p.m. and Thursday that plenary would meet on this draft law and amendments. In fact, for reasons of urgency, the majority had proposed and it had only passed the second reading in committee on Friday, two days after the first reading had been completed. Suddenly, this urgency disappears and the government decides to propose to Parliament that we go to a procedure like the one that is being followed today. The paradoxical point, Mr President, is that this decision, which is from the Conference of Presidents, is announced by Mrs Gerovalis. What's Mrs. Gerovali? Representative of the Conference of Presidents? He's a government representative. Others are her role. It cannot function in our name and cannot replace the Bureau of Parliament and the Conference of Presidents. You are rightly offended by this practice and it reduces the value and role of the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. It is a direct attack on parliamentarianism which, before the gates, has its intentions and objectives to make Parliament a communication decor of the government and Prime Minister. Mr President, if, on any serious matter - and the immigration - refugee issue is a very serious matter, perhaps the most serious - the Government wants the House to function on this issue at the level of the Heads of State or Government, it also has the procedure for the pre-dated order of debate at the level of the Heads of State and for the convening of the House at a special sitting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is unacceptable that the legislative work should be done on the government's communication function. We denounce this and, otherwise, I have expressed myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u69	Here, Mr Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor on both the proposal I have made and everything else you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, we, as a JRC, disagreed with this struggling effort by the government, at a time when a whole frontal anti-grass attack is being launched and supposedly presented with a parallel programme that relieves sensitive social groups. The anti-popular nature of government policy does not change. The class choices are clean and clear. The Government implements the third Memorandum and all previous Memorandums and Anti-Latin policies. From this point of view, there is a clear sense of the agonizing effort it is doing. On the other hand, we say very clearly that we will not raise issues of a procedural nature, just to waste time, so we agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou submits for the minutes the abovementioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert the pubs. 62-63]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u72	On your procedural proposal, Mr President, we agree. I would like to stress, however, that parliamentary function is inconsistent with the criticality and requirements of the times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr Kokkalis is not here, but I had spoken with Mr Papachristopoulos and with his agreement on the procedural proposal. Mr. Karras is also not present, but I have informed him and he agrees. So on a point of order, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, it is important, before we begin, that Members know what is foreseen for tomorrow too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u75	I'll tell you now before we start, Mr. Loverdo. Don't worry. So all my colleagues have to know is that instead of seven minutes they will speak for ten minutes today and have the right to either take the time at first or choose to speak on the articles as well. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Economic, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Rural Development and Food and the Deputy Finance Ministers tabled a draft law on 18-2-2016: "Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and other provisions". The draft law shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Before we start with Mrs. Merope Jufi, I will give Mrs. Anagnostopoulou the floor for a minute, because she wants to testify in the Minutes and give you some legal improvements. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u76	I am making legislative improvements to provisions relating to issues of the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u78	You have the floor, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u79	Because we know that there are too many parliamentary amendments and because we have said that the procedure will be done in this way, we would like the Minister, on a timely basis, to tell us which of the amendments is acceptable and which are not, so that we can put ourselves on the table. Don't leave it for tomorrow or the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I've been briefed. The Minister will speak after the rapporteurs and the special speakers and beyond his post if he wishes - and I think that is the right thing to do in the first place - to tell the House about this request. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in plenary to discuss and vote for a very important bill, a bill which regulates a number of issues, the operation of the social state and public administration from the point of view of citizens and workers. It is a bill aimed at alleviating the social groups affected in the years of cruel austerity, healing - even in part - the wounds of the long-term economic and humanitarian crisis. It is a bill, that is, politically required and socially necessary. It is a bill that took fire from the first moment, both to the relevant committees of Parliament and to the public word. In my position today I shall try to answer questions raised in the debate prior to the Committees. And I'm starting. In a pivotal and acid way the question was raised by the Opposition: Is this parallel program, which you announce will deal with the hard measures you implement or live in a parallel universe? Is it a useful bill or a communication propaganda? The title of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, - and rightly so - is 'Measures to speed up government work'. Therefore, as rightly described therein, it provides for urgent measures relating to various sectors of direct intervention in the context of the government. In fact, with emphasis on what a left government has promised to implement, namely at all costs the social state, public health, education, social welfare and public administration, with the necessary reforms. The multi-collective nature of this, which some of the anti-population colleagues called aggressively and derogatingly 'carpet bill' or more politely 'the horns sprinkled', is apparent. The bill could, of course, be more comprehensive and reformative if we did not legislate in terms of suffocating pressure, along with negotiations abroad and under the internal pressure we receive from various centres of power. And, of course, we also need to reiterate your active contribution, ladies and gentlemen, to delaying legislative procedures, which has forced us to move provisions into legislative acts, to tackle exceptionally urgent issues. However, only eight articles were actually withdrawn. It is therefore in dispute that some people's argument for online withdrawal from the troika of the bill is being questioned and, of course, the attempt not to reinstate it has failed. So his debate on the relevant committees continued, where, as you know, a majority was voted on both in principle and in the articles, but was also enriched by many more articles. This probably angers all those who claim to be totally impracticable in the context of the Memorandum of Understanding, that you may be able to exercise social policy in favour of the subordinate classes. This bill is therefore part of a positive change and part of it, called the government's 'parallel programme'. The parallel program is not a bill. It is a key axis of our policy, with social, radical, classic - if you like - and with a view to creating cracks in the hard neoliberal landscape in favour of the world of need, effort and work. It started with the bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis, continued with legislative initiatives to regulate debts and relaunch the economy, combat bureaucracy and e-government, with measures to relieve disabled people and the cohabitation pact. In addition, we are making sure that available resources are increased and redistributed, while we are consciously trying to strike tax evasion, complexity and control all the expenditure. So the parallel programme, ladies and gentlemen, did not start or end with this bill. The Committees have been strongly supported in various ways by the opposition parties: 'Okay, what are you talking about? It is a wishing list.’ ‘It has not budgeted its implementation’. "The Left loves words and not deeds" or "you don't like numbers". So let's talk with numbers. Let's start with the inspiring stuff. In order to avoid further deterioration of public health and retain the ESS, the government is recruiting 3500 permanent staff, while in the period 2013-2014 the cessation of recruitment was almost universal, and there had been some 15,000 departures for various reasons, mainly retirement. More specifically, the Ministerial Council Act, which deals with filling 1095 positions, is in the final straight line and pending the proclamation of the successors of the SAP while the 2440 Ministerial Council Act of Occupational Positions of various branches and specialities will proceed immediately after the completion of this draft. In addition, the CEDEFOP's notice for CEDEFOP moleculosis for intensive care and intensive care units for 500 people came out. Also called to address the refugee immigration problem 141 posts, to strengthen the islands of the East Aegean, and a cabinet act for additional 584 ancillary staff has been signed. Now to the purely economic evidence. The hospital thresholds increased for the first time in 2015 and stood at 1.6 billion euros, i.e. 180 million euros more than planned by the New Democracy for 2015. The grant of the regular budget to hospitals for 2015 was determined by the New Democracy at EUR 1,115 billion. With the change of government in 2015, the new final real grant of the regular budget to hospitals was set at EUR 1,240 billion. In addition, the grant was foreseen to be reduced by EUR 400 million from 2014 to 2015, according to the medium-term, which we eventually prevented. Comparison figures for 2016 do not allow much room for converging. The market limits of hospitals are 300 million more and the regular budget for hospitals is 135 million euros higher. The fact is that hospital payments to suppliers did indeed show a decline in 2015, as several political and economic events, which are well-known, however, the smooth flow of payments was fully restored since September and continued the same normality. With the EUR 5.5 billion, which we will receive at the end of the evaluation, the delayed debts of hospitals are expected to fall even further. In addition, hospitals have also EUR 377 million in cash, most of which are already committed to repaying suppliers. That's all, first of all. Much more will you then hear from the relevant ministers. Another war against the bill is: “What are you doing? It's crumbs. Defrauding, diversion or healing". So I ask, ladies and gentlemen: is it the health coverage of uninsured citizens and vulnerable 'fly' groups by removing their institutional exclusion from all levels of the public health system by reducing bureaucracy and waiting time? Is the legislative regulation, which is established in a uniform and universal manner, under the AMKA, for all about 2.5 million uninsured citizens of that country, the possibility of having a full nursing medicine for both the first time and a diagnostic coverage, as well as the possibility of regular and stable external medical checks and re-checks? Is it a distraction to cover immigrants without legal documents and in particular of vulnerable units on the basis of the principles of the founding declaration of the World Health Organisation and the historic summit of Alma Ata in 1978? Is the regulation on incentives for hospitals and health centres in fertile island and problem areas? Is it some kind of trick the operation of the Thera Hospital, which had been completed for ten years with public taxes, and the previous government had privatisation plans? Is the regulation on setting up protection offices to ensure the rights of patients and establishing the OSH list to combat illegal money laundering, the well-known sachet? Is it unnecessary to lay down regulations on CCI, which allow us to use it as a useful tool for defending public health and not only as opposed to, at least to, to date, a controversial function? Are the regulations concerning the EAW, its functioning and the workers not necessary? Is it some kind of deception of the wage and graduation simulation of doctors at the IKA - EYPY with the doctors of the ESS to re-appoint critical structures of primary health care? That's for health. However, the bill also includes a number of provisions concerning, for example, the free open university, including the possibility of carrying out distance courses, and the possibility of modifying the choice of importers beyond the draw, providing incentives for young scientists. Is that some kind of photographic arrangement? Is there a misunderstanding about the reopening of public IEKs, directed at eight thousand young children, mainly young families? Beyond this, the reintroduction of compensatory education aimed at pupils of public high school and high school, as well as the strengthening of training in treatment agencies and in particular detention shops aimed at combating the phenomenon of school leakage and illiteracy, is it for you a regulation - buffalo? Or is the improvement of the provision of special education the same way? Finally, is it or is it not necessary to regulate recruitment councils, as well as to speed up such recruitment and to regulate the reorganisation of services and disciplinary boards necessary and necessary for the good administration of the country? On the other hand, there's another line of defense. You say: "The bill makes ruffles." Who are these rumbles, colleagues of the opposition? Is it, perhaps, the improvement of public-private programmes with additional criteria for subjecting vulnerable groups to them or is it the support of all kinds of prosperous private-law institutions, covering the legislative gap and setting additional criteria for subsidisation? Is it a rhyme so necessary to register NGOs so much in order to implement a transparent framework of operation together with proper funding criteria, as well as the establishment of community centres in the municipalities of the country, which will ensure that vulnerable social groups are set up by setting up reception centres for requests, recording, information and interconnection with institutions and programmes, implemented by national and Community bodies? Is it also a graceful service to set up a committee to review the institutional framework of local government with a view to strengthening local autonomy and rationalising the administrative procedures of local authorities? Is the extension of the planned capacity of the municipalities to reduce or exempt municipal taxes and charges to include a larger range of citizens who find it difficult? Or is it, finally, that the necessary decentralisation of the state by means of the provisions that we are voting on concerning the regulation of the details of the service situation of the general coordinator and of the coordinating board of decentralised administration, thus supplementing some parts of our government's policy on public administration? Ladies and gentlemen, these and many others are contained in this bill and I hope that we can say more tomorrow. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the bill is a nuclear part of our general understanding, as well as a constant effort by this government to change and legislate, as I said at the outset, in favour of strengthening a social state and an administration that respects and shares its citizens, that is to say, it will serve the reason why it exists, while regenerating the damaged social fabric at the same time because of the policies that have been implemented in our country over recent years. The core of opposition parties' objections is precisely that. Behind the objections to the draft law's procedure, both when ratifying the legislative acts and in this bill they hide their anxiety that this government continues, opens up burning issues and negotiates, claiming better conditions within the suffocating cord that you have created for the country with your previous decisions. We are prepared, for our part, to make every effort and to give the necessary battle, and we call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to vote in favour of this very necessary bill, away from pointless controversies, since most of you recognise that most of it is absolutely necessary. To conclude, I would like to stress that it is unacceptable, while your policies have led to the launching of unemployment and poverty as a whole, but also of child poverty at 25% to 28%, the demolition of wages and pensions, and within all these other things that are known to the Greek people and the collapse of the public health system, recorded in international scientific evidence, to extradite and publish this glorious spirit entitled 'Black Health Book in the Year of SYRIZA', which I would just say - insults me - the intelligence of all of us, patients and workers in the many paths of health, for which I will try to refer more specifically to my denology. At the moment, I only respond to this attempt, as if you had never been ruling, as if this place had no past and memory. Allow me, you beggars! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u82	Before I summon to Stepma Mr. Economou, I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolao Phile, for a minute, to submit legislative improvements and to be distributed to colleagues. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. We have tabled legislative improvements, which deal with clarifications on the issue of aiding treatment, on the subject of special treatment, and on issues relating to public libraries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Vassilios Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the rapporteur in this House - she has also made an honest effort to the Commission - to justify the rename, by Mr Tsipras, of the bill and to give him the custodial content of a 'parallel programme'. We need to understand some things and all speak the same language. The bill is called "Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions". We, when we got this, thought that Mr. Tsipras and his government team would bring in current provisions to regulate issues of government work and everyday life, and as such we would deal with them. Honestly, you will see on the articles that on many issues - most I can tell you - we have no objection to such provisions. However, we have heard Mr Tsipras - and I will explain why he has done so - to speak of a parallel programme. He made baptism, Mrs. Jufi, and ladies and gentlemen of the House. He made the baptisms and said "a parallel program". So there we were looking to see why the Prime Minister of the country is rushing, in a current legislation to give symbolism and to raise it in a case of top political movement. Does he have anything? Is something hiding? Is that important? Is that something to cause us so much interest? However, every conversation and every move must be seen within the political context and the political context really is specific. Mr Tsipras and his government team are whistling, ruthlessly, in recent times by society, the whole of society. Free professionals, scientists, lawyers, doctors, engineers, farmers, all social groups are hammering him. Inside this whistle and anxiety, so he comes to say two things, to make his political communal counterattack. Two things: it will combat the conflict, the man, the politician - licences for the channels - and it will implement its prologue social programme, through the parallel programme. Two moves. So it baptizes these provisions 'a parallel programme'. So we say: is this a parallel programme? So let's see what Tsipras and his political, governmental and parliamentary group said when they discovered, as a fine languager, the concept of the parallel programme. When did he find out? In January 2015. Wrong. Then he had the humanitarian program. In 2015 he had Thessaloniki's humanitarian programme. I was wrong, excuse me. There, then, the 2 billion, a post-base announcement and branches in Thessaloniki, were exhausted, Minister, to 200 million, by voting on the humanitarian programme, following the proud victory in January 2015. Two hundred million were credited to the 2015 budget. What did you say then? You said then that every year we will pay 200 million. The then claims of opposition were very specific. "But well, is it a great political move of 200 million, when the previous Samara government had given 500 million of the surpluses for social policy in 2014?" Are these numbers missing? You said, however, that these will be on a lasting level and they will be both in 2016 and in 2017 and in 2018. The researchers of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group looked for a while later to see what happened with these notorious 200 million humanitarian programmes. Did they exist? It closed, my dear colleague, in 2015 and you know how much was 200 million. It was 108 million. Isn't that right, Mr. Chakalote? You answered this question and the Minister answered it the other day, Mr Manda. It was 108 million out of 2 billion. "We will give 200 million for each year", the following 108 million for 2015. And I'm gonna go look for you in 2016 what you put in this code. You put 99 million. Do you know what I'm claiming? You won't give that either. "Carbon the treasure" and these little issues are a propaganda. But I'll explain it all the propaganda how it's done. This humanitarian programme therefore had to be made in January 2015. Because this "social face of the left" - of the so-called left, I say - of the government "first time left", was exhausted, it came in September 2015, because then Mr. Tsipras was cramped, and he says: "For every disease in this country, I have the solution. Along with a programme and equivalents.’ What are you going to do, Mr. Tsipras, with the parallel program and the equivalents? "I will deal with insurance, 1% of GDP, but I will not cut pensions because I have the parallel program and I will find equivalent and I will cover it." The tax, the refugee and all matters would be covered by the parallel programme. Did you say it in the balconies in an election or did you not say it? Five months ago, you were talking about it. That new candy five months ago, you called it. So this bill has a long career. As I said, in my fifteen years in this Chamber, I have first seen - but I have also discussed with older colleagues, who for the first time see it - a bill that takes two years at least - calendars, 2015-2016 - to come and pass. When you brought it in December 2015, you said that this is the answer of the second-time left-wing government, which will give the solution and relief to the philosophical program and person that Mr. Tsipras wanted to show, but was not there. We then told him that the things he writes in December 2015 are fumara. There's nowhere to be found. No cost, no State General Accounting Report - unprecedented, no bill without the cost of the General Accounting Office of the State - has been passed by the Preparatory Committee, no consultation has taken place. These are not binding, but they are indicative of how you behave. So we said something very simple. Is what you want to bring as a parallel program and as Mr. Tsipras announces, is it another genocide? Is it another propaganda and only argument to cover your own weaknesses and unreliableness to the people? No, you were claiming. You didn't hear us. But your good dad, Mr. Thompsen, and Mr. Shoeble, came and said at the meeting, which took place in Europe, that without costing, get it back. And you took it back in December, Mr. Chakaloto, as a good troika student. And you have the courage to speak and say that we did not want you to make your philosophical policy. What about us? Find the first with your boss, Mr. Thompsen, whom you don't want to see, but you expect to also get the proposal for debt-cutting from the International Monetary Fund. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So you withdrew it - the press wrote - Mr Chakaloto himself in December 2015, two months ago. What matters is that you did a heroism. You brought by legislative act the Christmas part of the bill. And Mr. Vernadakis called - who is here, I see - another third part. So this notorious parallel program was cut into three pieces. Unprecedented legislation, unprecedented legislative behaviour. A bill has never been made in time to be salamized to three and served per Hall and per interested party. It's never happened in chronology before! So you come here today and ask for the change and say that you do not appreciate it positively. What should we assess, ladies and gentlemen? What? Which room? What bill? Who's going to vote? When will they vote? And what is it you've brought? Have you brought the legislative acts for housing - feeding, for PPC's social person and invoice? Have you brought the health, the public administrations that Mr. Vernadakis has taken? So, where does this bill come from? Let's catch this piece of our Hall, because there's others in other halls. So we say something very simple. What you have brought, are similar to such a policy, which justifies the title of a parallel programme, as Mr Tsipras told the Ministerial Council the other day? I suppose, Mr President-in-Office, that to postpone it once again since he entered the House - it was to discuss it on Wednesday - and finally bring it on Friday, we expect the leader to dress it up beautifully politically and give the symbolism he must have in the Chamber. I can't believe Wednesday night went Friday and Saturday for something else. The signal must be given to the easiest down to lose anything, that social, philosophical policy is being exercised here. So, let's see what a philosophical social policy you've been conducting with this bill that's left. So you're talking about a price that exists. You say in the reports you have brought, for some of the provisions, that it is around 100,000 000. I'm sorry, now, but the parallel program runs out to 100,000, tips to the poor and unpunished people in the country? Are you dealing with them in this way? Is this, then, the philosophical and social policy of a government, which is currently called upon to face up to the great deadlocks that it has created and claimed - if possible - that this is a philosophical and social policy? It became a big mess in the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u87	Take it easy for you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u88	The Thessalic someplace calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u89	Since he's having family turbulence now, he's struggling there to take a walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u90	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u91	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u92	Keep going, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u93	We say this: if what you are legislating here today is for the first time like the 'first time left', say that social policy is caring for and starting in the country, in fact, over the days of Tsipras and its various ministers. It became a big mess, and you remember those of you who participated in the Committee on Social Affairs, because I dared to say two things. I dare say, in other words, that for the days of the evil right, the previous Samara government, there was a social invoice to PPC, that is, there was a policy that supported the one who did not have the power to pay. It became a big mess and they were shouting then all SYRIZA MPs! I said a second, that to cover uninsured hospitals there has been regulation by two ministerial decisions - in fact, one of them I see here today in the Chamber and is called Makis Vorides, while the second is called Adonis Georgiadis - in June 2014. I brought them to you, because the first time you said there were no such provisions and we were lying. So I brought you the ministerial decisions, I showed them to you and there there was a second line of defence, which says, 'all right, you had such a policy, but the practical results were small'. You turned it around and packed it up a little bit. Neither social policy starts on "Photos" in Greece in 2015 nor the social policy of uninsured persons starts on Xanthos in Greece in 2015. All this had been done and you had to carry on with it. You continue them half-baby, little, poor, and you call that a social policy. But there is a big difference. And that's the difference that New Democracy is filing against you. Social policy will be done by the surpluses, we say. The 2014 social policy was one of the surpluses in the public funds and was 500 million. Today you are giving out of the deficits you have created. These deficits really are an issue if they can finance social policy. That's why you're giving crumbs. For this reason, however, you should at least have been more modest, lower tone and not come here today, when society is in the bars and everyone is shouting and seeing what is happening, saying that we are doing social policy here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are doing social policy when there is no such social policy at all. The New Democracy - and we will talk about it in the debate on the articles - of course it will not set up the communication carpet, so that the philosopher can go through and say his stubbornness about social sensitivity, which he has abundantly, but which man cannot, saddened, regrets that he is so hard, ruthless and abundant in the face of all the social strata. We're not giving that kind of communication paper. We believe that these policies are deadlocked. These are policies that cannot go anywhere. It is a policy which, not only socially sensitive, you cannot describe, but it is a false policy, hypocritical. We cannot support such policies. In principle, of course, and we will not support this bill. It is a policy in which we will be firmly opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, please speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u95	Why are you asking to speak, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u96	I ask for the floor for two minutes, because he referred to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u97	There was no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u98	No, I'm not saying it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u99	He referred to you as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u100	Can I take the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u101	Here's what I'll tell you. I'll give you the floor, but for the first and last time. The ministers of all the governments, regardless of the parties, will know that they are obliged to listen to their name by speakers and not every time they hear it say they want the speech on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u102	I don't take it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u103	I didn't say anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u104	I make it clear for as many times as I do, I presiding. Today for two minutes, although for one minute is the time for the on-call, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u105	I do not want to speak on personal grounds, an intervention I want to do for what he has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u106	Then why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u107	About what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u108	All right, I'll give you a minute's reason and we're done. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u109	We too, Mr President, want to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u110	I'm sorry to make it clear: do I have the right to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u111	No, not whenever it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u112	I don't have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u113	Not whenever you want, when the process of the rapporteurs has begun. Right after, yes, you do. But not by interrupting the flow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u114	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u115	Now I'm fixing your time and I'm putting him in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u116	After you have dismantled me, Mr President, I do not want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u117	Good, thank you very much. So now we are going to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, speeding up the government's work and other provisions, the so-called and parallel government's programme, is introduced to the National Representation at a time when the main programme of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is implemented and characterised by: Hard, anti-grass and ethnic-corruption memorandum measures, with GDP shrinking and a recession of 0.7% for 2015; noteworthy that the government was expecting a zero change - and therefore a frontal conflict, due to its bizarre policy of behaviour with wide social groups, with senior farmers, but also free professionals, who still cannot believe that they were deceived by election. The economic climate index in our country in January, compared with January of 2015, was reduced by four points. On the contrary, the economic climate index increased by four points in the European Union. The second aspect of the main policy of SYRIZA and ANEL government is the uncontrolled and constantly growing migration of people who illegally enter third world countries in Greece. In the first six weeks of this year, more people were illegally entering Europe, but also proportionally in our country, than in the first four months of 2015. Of course, the so-called hot spots are a pole of attraction for all these Islamics and a good proposal would be to be renamed to 'Islam spots'. Another parameter: genitality. For the year 2015, births fall by more than twenty thousand deaths. As far as migration flows and costs are concerned, according to the International Monetary Fund, it cost Greece 0.17% of gross national product, i.e. around 300,000 000 euros. I would like to submit the relevant document, for the cost of immigration for Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same document of the International Monetary Fund clearly states that only a small part of this cost is borne by the European Union. Another interesting aspect of the main government policy is the active presence of the NATO fleet, on a proposal from Germany and Turkey, and of course, even encrypted, of the Americans, on the pretext of controlling the so-called refugee. This is an up-to-date ethnic attitude to the assignment of national sovereignty, since the word 'prevention' is annoying. This attitude, perhaps, also conceals a diversion move towards the actions the Russian Federation has taken in recent weeks and months in the Aegean Sea because of the Syrian problem. In addition, we had the captive event of the practically banning the landing of the aircraft with the Prime Minister in Rhodes, so he was forced not to use and not to pass through Turkey's airspace. Finally, in this crucial policy of SYRIZA and ANEL, of course, we have another parameter, the migration of scientists abroad, which leads to scientific, technological and economic surfing in Greece. So these are the main features of SYRIZA and ANEL policy. The parallel program I think is being introduced for reasons of impression. And pre-existing article about these impressions is Article 56 on medical coverage of all uninsured persons. This article, I believe, has been written primarily with the aim of making public health services recipients illegal immigrants flowing to our country by waves. This is particularly the case. I believe that it is inappropriate and will lead to public health, the National Health System in a mine really conducive to Otto finances, as it seems by means of an amendment, for emergency expenses, which concern the needs of hospitals. As far as the head of the Ministry of Health is concerned, I would like to say that he has poorly dealt with the seasonal influenza epidemic. So far, there are about a hundred deaths of the flu, and I think this is an important parameter, which means that on a crucial subject, the Ministry's leadership has failed. This is because two hundred intensive treatment units do not operate under the responsibility of the Ministry, and there was insufficient population vaccination, since at least this well-established information campaign was not carried out in the autumn. Let us not forget, of course, that hospitals remain headless without governors and that is also responsible for the Ministry. One thing which has given me particular impression in the Commission is what was said by the Minister. It has been said that the population of migrants and refugees is a healthy population and has even been invoked as a literature. Here, Minister, it would be nice to produce this literature, because the literature I have - and it is undeniable - says different things. Before I refer to this literature, I would remind you, Minister, that you are honoured to be present, that on 10 February we have tabled a question to you about the lack of beds in intensive care units and that this lack of life costs people. And that is true, of course, and it is not disputed, regardless of whether you bring full responsibility or not. Your regular practice, like the Deputy Minister, is not to answer questions on the pretext that a trial is pending for setting up a criminal organisation for MPs or for some Members of the Golden Dawn. Because you're a doctor, I think you should change your tactics because you're being exposed. It is better to expose yourself to your party as a politician than to be exposed as a doctor to the people, to the patients. As far as the Deputy Minister for Health, who is unfortunately not present at the Commission, is concerned about this matter not answering the questions of the Members of the Golden Dawn Parliament about health issues from your Ministry and when in a very good way I made the observation that there is, Minister, the presumption of innocence, he replied that there is no. Here clearly those who are legal and also non-legislative know that the presumption of innocence is irreversible and can never be used at the expense of the health of the Greek people. Therefore, I urge you once again to change your tactics and answer the questions of the Members of the Golden Dawn. I am now returning to the literature and scientific inaccuracy, which you have put to the Commission, unfoundedly saying that the mobile population of refugees, immigrants, illegal immigrants, irregular immigrants, illegal immigrants and illegal immigrants is a healthy population. I will take note of a given given one: every year in Afghanistan they die - they die! - ten thousand five hundred people as a result of tuberculosis. As far as immigrants are concerned, you know that the second country after Syria is Afghanistan. Who guarantees that these people have been specifically selected to come to Greece and have no tuberculosis or vice versa? This is the one I testify as a literature for tuberculosis deaths in Afghanistan every year. All of these are recent data and are published in exceptional magazines. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second point I put to you is that I have put it to another Commission. This is a June 2015 post, which expressly states that four out of ten seropositives in Europe are immigrants. I too am tabling this document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, Jordan has accepted a large number of Syrian refugees. Yes, it is! It was therefore found from a study in Jordan on Syrian refugees that they have about twice the prevalence of tuberculosis from the rest of the population and according to the World Health Organisation - and I have the literature here - 85% of the cases of new tuberculosis are about Syrian refugees. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the people who move and who, with your attitude and the 'Islam spots' you called them here, are not healthy. The question is whether the necessary checks are carried out, while you are calling them. Because, as you know, there's a period of incubation. How, then, can you be sure that this will not happen, even if someone has not manifested the disease at the border or at the hotpots, as you say? After all, I can assure you that, apart from tuberculosis and seropositives, there are many cases of malaria involving mainly migrants, but also cases of fur fever recorded in both France and Croatia. I will go through very briefly in some of the articles, since, of course, I would stress that we will vote against the bill in principle. As far as Article 5 is concerned, I will say very briefly that, once again, sinful NGOs will be helped and subsidised, of course, through the Ministry of Health's budget. As far as the operation of the Incineration Centres and the choice of the burial method is concerned, this runs counter to the Orthodox Christian tradition. And a statement from the Holy Synod of the Church simulates this process with a recycling of waste. In any case, the religious freedom of the Church of Greece is violated, since priests cannot be compelled to be an exodus, if the death by the same document or other, has signed incineration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Article 56. Clearly, the relevant provision of a law that had been passed on to the new Republic is not covered. It is something different that you enter, Minister. The remark Mr Georgiadis made at some point seems to me to be a disguised argument. Because, indeed, many citizens, who are uninsured, are hospitalized and confirmed as expenses in the DU.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u119	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u120	As far as the O.R. List is concerned, a first view is that it actually has a creative ambiguity against Varoufakis. We are therefore voting against the bill on the principle and on the articles, we will give our opinion and then let us know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u121	You, on the other hand, will have a speech tomorrow, so you will be filled. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: Rehabilitation of democracy", twenty-five students and students and two attendants of teachers from the American College. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I very much ask Mrs Christophilopoulou, a special buyer of the Democratic Partnership, to come to the Stepma. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one year before the House had completed the debate on the programming statements of the first SYRIZA - ANEL government. And the world, Mr. Secretary of Health, even hoped to receive the thirteenth pension and the thirteenth salary. And that you will recommend and pass a 751 euro minimum wage. Also, that it will, of course, be abolished - of course, HNPH, that we will not pay tolls, that duty-free will be increased by much and especially for farmers. One year later a heavy, heavy memorandum has been passed, the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. A year later, people are on the streets. And the country lives again predicament and violence, which we unequivocally condemn, because we will not be like you. We're not going to do what you did. A year after all the productive classes - farmers, lawyers, engineers, scientists, free traders - are on the way. Why is that? Not only because they have not seen and are not going to see a third pension - because easy words are easily burned - but also because they are threatened by contributors that end up their incomes and denote them all the will to produce, have profits, pay taxes and pay contributions. In other words, they are being cultivated by anti-insurance and anti-insurance. And the world's on the streets. And Greece is divided in two. And here we are discussing what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government invented in view of its own decision not to reach consensus after the heaviest third memorandum, but to hold elections, the parallel - it says - a programme. In front of us, Mr President of the House, Mr President-in-Office, and ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill of amendment, because it concerns most ministries. It concerns issues from incineration of the dead to social protection programs and from surgery list to any detail about special schools. Pineapples, horns sprinkled! That's not a program. That's not a plan. And I want to remind you not what you were saying - because we talked about it and the people remember them - about the tenth third-party pensions and more, but what you said, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the parallel programme of Thessaloniki. On September 6, 2015, the Prime Minister was speaking, Minister of Health, about the great plan with which health will be a front in the government's policing, the new primary health care system with the creation of the family doctor's institution, the creation of neighborhood doctors. What happened, really? You will tell me, 'We haven't had time yet, five months have passed'. What's the sample? Has the Greek people seen such a plan as the one that the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki ordered from e-Health Governance? Nor proceed with the projects of the NRP that you found ready and mature. It took you time to do that, too. I heard you. I have heard my colleague, SYRIZA's rapporteur, talking about health recruitment. In fact, Minister, you also found a cabinet act ready for some seven hundred health recruitment last year, the genarris you took over. And the cabinet act has also been approved by the General Accounting Office of the State. What did you do? You didn't keep it up. Now, of course, you've woken up and said, "We'll be hiring." So do it. Because I have heard about the CCCTB and about our preparation for the flu, I would like to remind my fellow Members that this time the doctors through CCCTB had gone to their place. Now not only have you announced the doctors through CDCNOS, which is a fireplace, it is not permanent, but we did it too, you do it - well you do - but you do it late, and when these people get to the ICMs, Mr Minister, the flu will be "go away". Of course, they need and will need to go and need for all the other incidents that are at Intensive Treatment Units. But the influenza epidemic due to seasonality will have passed. And tell us here, when you get the floor, if you don't need at least twenty-five days from today - not to say more - to get these doctors to the intensive care units. So, what parallel program? Micro-adjustments, micro-regulations, and that's all. I am very sorry, too, for the procedure, ladies and gentlemen. Because I remember many of you - and today's President of Parliament - telling us that we were badly bringing three amendments - intolerable. Three, four! Eighteen of us today - the eleven in the Commission, the other subsequent amendments to the bill, which the same bill is to be amended in this draft bill. And not just that, but where's the urgency of the bill? You brought it in December. You brought it without any quantification. We objected then, we left to show how you couldn't make fun of us and bring bills without any economic report and without any cost assessment, and then you swallowed it, and then you did it, because the troika or the quartet had taken your ears out of you now. You big negotiators, 2,2 billion in insurance, these big negotiators! So you got it back. You did everything you could, with two legislative acts, when you told us about legislative acts, Mr Voutsi, Mr President. Juda, you were telling us! What are you doing now about legislative acts? Swallow them one by one and they do not concern memoranda and do not concern deadlines that the country should have. It's nothing to do with it. It's about your ruffles and your politics alone. These are the legislative acts of this government that wants to be called a democratic government, but they are not. And this bill, ladies and gentlemen, came without consultation beforehand, as the law stipulates. You didn't want to. You didn't. But that's what you call it, too. And I ask you: after you took it back in December, did you bring it to the point of law, why didn't you even post it on the Internet? Why didn't you do two - three conferences with institutions? Why didn't you come here to the Committee on Social Affairs and the other committees to discuss? Since it's so big and so nice your parallel program, why didn't you put it in consultation and dialogue? So, what was the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u123	How did we not put it? Didn't the agencies come to the Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u124	Minister, you will have the time to answer me. The reason is that this is not a programme, ladies and gentlemen. These are seaweeds for silk ribbons they sell to the people. That's the story. Seaweeds for silk ribbons, unfortunately, Minister! I'm going to social. What did you really do? What was the humanitarian aid programme? You have also taken the ETA programme to strengthen our fellow citizens, have you taken all the programme of the Mineral Guaranteed Income and what have you done? I would like to ask you, Mr You put it in the freezer. This programme has been lifted now because the European Commission has told you. This programme was drawn up by the previous 'bad' government. And the reason you put it on ice? Ideal. It was our schedule. As if it were ours and not the Greek people, the minimum guaranteed income! As if he had a PASOK seal because Kegeroglu did it! I'm sorry. Why did you take it back and unpack it now and bring it? And be careful how you bring it. You bring that lame, too. Why, instead of implementing the Guaranteed Social Income programme - which had passed its pilot phase and could start from April 2016 - you are now bringing it into a second pilot phase to justify the unjustified. What else are you doing this for? We because we do not just want to have opposition, but we also want to have proposals, we have tabled an integrated proposal for a law on this issue and we invite you to vote on it. We call on the President, who is here, and the President-in-Office, to bring this proposal for a law to discuss it by the Greek Parliament. Because, through this proposal, we are talking about implementing the Guaranteed Social Income as from 1 April 2016. There is nothing else to be done, it can be implemented as of 1 April 2016, the national strategy for social inclusion, as approved by the European Commission and paid tribute to the five years 2015-2020, which has a basic mechanism for dealing with and dealing with absolute, extreme poverty and child poverty. And of course, together we propose by regulating the safeguarding of the first home for those of our fellow citizens who have joined Law 3869/2010, the PASOK law, what you and you voted against and said "no house in the hands of a banker". There we go, we forgot that, too! It's gone, too! Of course, we have a parallel program! Are you kidding? We'll solve everything with the parallel program! We also propose the reintroduction to EUR 1,500 of the irreconcilable account, the recovery of the self-sufficiency of the CEECs that will be integrated into the welfare centres and the support of social protection actions through JEPs. For we disagree with the provision that you have brought to the bill, namely, that there must be community centres isolated from the social cell, which are only for the most deprived, only for our fellow citizens who experience extreme poverty and have great problems. That's what makes them gag them, that marginalizes them, that's what I don't know what kind of progressive policy they are, but ours is not a progressive policy. If you want these resources and this plan, include social services within JEPs. There is a possibility and we have foreseen this in the proposal for a law, for recruitment of special staff who will enter the JEPs and, precisely, help to inform our fellow citizens about the poverty programmes. The poverty programmes, as we had planned, were also about the possibility of the poor and those who were part of the minimum guaranteed income, getting into employment programmes, training programmes. I mean, it was too powerful. He wouldn't need anything else. You want to go to a new pilot application and see it on the bells slower, slower, whenever we can. Also, a lot of talk was made about the famous coverage of uninsured people. Look: After all, you know very well that in practice this year and last year, and beforehand our hospitals, our doctors, our nurses did not close the door to any fellow citizen, and that is true and it is so you all know it and you can ask who you want. The issue covered by this legislation, which was not covered by the CSR, is only the non-legal residents. I ask you: this cost is how will you cover it? You say that you have increased - and you promote it as the great social policy - by a hundred and fifty million euros - if I remember correctly, Minister, if I have the number right - the hospital budget, but what have you done in hospitals? Transfer - your choice, will also be judged - the provision of intra-Hellenic medical care by the EEAS in hospitals. What does that mean? That the funds are being transferred together and the funds go far beyond, Minister, what you say you have increased the budgets of the hospitals. So this is'smoking' too. It is simply fine to say that you have raised the budgets, since you have charged hospitals with medicines and have not done so in good time. You did so in such a way that many of our fellow citizens years of suffering, cancer patients, people with the AIDS virus, people who needed medication, did not find it on time, because many hospitals did not catch up. Arrhymia, you told me when I asked you about it. Arrhythmia, Minister. Arrhythmia, don't predict, non-plan. Let's go down. You're talking about all the nice things you're doing. I will take one example again, because I will have time, Mr President, for my dentistry and tomorrow for the articles. You want to be good, you want to have a social face. What are you going to do with nursery stations? Except that you didn't even give the thirteenth pension, you couldn't, you made all the other memoirs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u125	You cut it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u126	Calm down, calm down and listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u127	I'm calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u128	Don't waste time. Proceed to your speech, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u129	Listen a little, ladies and gentlemen. I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm doing a parentheses and I'm closing up with this. Today we are talking about the anti-poverty structures, structures that we built in 2012, social grocery stores and social pharmacies, have the people six months unpaid. What did you do about it? Creative employment centres, nurseries, are 'in the air'. What did you do about it? Answer, Minister, or let the Minister for Labour come here to answer what he has done for us. It's all 'in the air'. What's the parallel program for all this? He's got a little ruffet. Restore infant nurses to thirty-hour working hours. Mayors say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u130	Why is it a ruffet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u131	Why is it a ruffet? Let me tell you why it's a ruffle. Because that's who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u132	Please. Don't waste time, because it's against the MPs. Complete, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u133	It's not enough that you're unpaid in kindergarten staff, but you're reducing working hours to permanent nurses, so the parent, the unemployed parent, has to go and take his child at 12 o'clock. This is a progressive policy for you. We give this policy to you, and we do not agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u134	Just so we don't forget, I mention that the first social grocery store took place in November 2008 in the Municipality of Athens by means of a programme contract with "CARREFOUR" until December 31st 2013 for full supply of the continuously. This is the first social grocery store in Greece. I would like to inform my fellow Members that ninety-five Members have been included in the list of speakers. I would therefore ask that the speakers should not be interrupted. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, can you hear me? I'm talking about you. If there is a holiday, whatever programming is done, you realize that it will be difficult to keep up. So please let us continue in peace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u135	How will it go, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u136	We will conclude with the special speakers, the Minister will speak, and I will give him two - three minutes more time to respond to the amendments if he asks me, namely, which he accepts, so that they can be taken into account and then in turn, as is the case, with parliamentary representatives, speakers and ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u137	How much are we going?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u138	We're going soon. We're not talking about time yet. I shall consult the President, depending on how long the debate is going to go. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fragmentary nature of the bill, ninety-two articles on seven ministries and the other provisions on so many other things, we think that it would be unfair if it were simply to be termed handy. It is, you see, this government propaganda that presents it as a counterweight to the so-called Memorandum Policy, baptizing it as a parallel program. Along with the third memorandum - you say - we will take any philosophical measures. We're gonna burn you, Yannis, but we're gonna lure you some oil. That's what you're actually saying. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are going to cultivate the notion that, at the time when you vote and apply the anti-grassroots measures in the third memorandum, one after the other, as a follow-up to the measures in the first and second Memorandums, which live and reign, at the time when you press for the negotiable new anti-assurance law, while, as signifiers of the CFP, you are driving small- and medium-sized farms to be cut off by slandering it, while you are preparing for the new major tax burden for the people, and you say: 'Now, we also bring some measures that offset the above.' And that is what you claim to be a great proof that your policy is different from that of previous governments. Who do you think you're kidding? If I am not mistaken, the official title of the bill is:'measures to speed up government work'. So what exactly is this governmental work? Don't our people live in it? Is it not the measures - 'rotator' provided for in the third memorandum, which you voted on here all together, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK and the Potami, and which are now being implemented with great zeal and dedication? A cheap diversion is going to do with the bill, a culmination, to hide the brutality of the anti-grass strategy and policy of capital and of the European Union, which you too are serving. However, whatever attempts to disorientate and do, as much seaweed as you sell for silk ribbons, no matter how ash in the eyes, you will not finally be able to avoid the popular condemnation of your class policy. But you also have a second target, more dangerous. You are trying to train the people in poverty, throwing them a few crumbs, falling from the mansion table of the pluralism, which is always served, and continuously, with new privileges, with new subsidies, new tax exemptions, new incentives. The 2016 state budget that you have recently voted, the testimony: All for capital and its development. For the people and their needs? A forbidden fruit. By means of measures "blocks" in the bill you are attempting to generalize and, above all, to permanentize the policy of the poorhouse for our people. To manage extreme poverty and impoverishment you call on the less poor to help, not to complain, because there are worse ones. The indignation that your policy gives rise to in favour of capital you want to incorporate and incorporate. But you won't make it. And let you chosen capital now to achieve this. In fact, we ask you: How can today, at a time when, in our country too, accumulated social wealth is unscathed, where productive potentials are huge and capable of continuously improving the lives of workers, a worker, a worker accepting the worsening of his and his children's lives, living the hell of unemployment, a farmer living the nightmare of unleashing and a self-employed person drowning in debts and taxes? Where does this come from? From heaven? What exactly is a humanitarian crisis? Aren't the results of your own policy, as a follow-up to the previous ones? Is it not the barbarity of an entire system that you serve with so much warmth and which nothing has to give but poverty, unemployment and wars? Clear words: By regulations like those you bring to the bill, not only are poverty not tackled, but it actually perpetuates. And it will perpetuate as long as the causes of it remain untouched. And these were never your intentions to eliminate them. The opposite is true. Not only because you are now every word of the memorandum and its measures, but also because you are consciously selling the story of popular prosperity that will allegedly come from capitalist development that, as you know, will, of course, step on the ruins of labour and popular rights, since the intensity of exploitation is the only fuel for growth, the only fuel for capitalist profits. You say to us: 'We bring some measures - so much we can now - which ease the consequences of the anti-grass measures', which you too are taking in a blanket, we say, and you present them as beads to the indigenous people. Apart from cultivating, methodically and consciously, the logic of the low demands on the people, that is to say sacrificing their modern needs on the altar of capitalist profit, at the same time being hypocritical. What relief measures are you talking about? Aren't you the ones who rejected, like the previous ones, the amendment of a law tabled by the JRC to remove the debts of families living in poverty in electricity companies and increasing the monthly free supply of electricity, so as to have the electricity that all poor households need free of charge for their basic needs for their relief from unbearable fees and billings, without the stress of interruption from PPC? Aren't you the ones who rejected the JRC's amendment to provide a meal for primary and secondary school pupils at the expense of the state budget? Aren't you the ones who rejected the amendment tabled by our party a few days ago on the medical coverage of the soldiers, the increase in their monthly allowance, which is now degrading, but also the calculation of the term of office as active insurance and pension time? Aren't you the ones who rejected the JRC's amendment to abolish the farmhouses where farmers struggling for their bread? Let us see what you will do and what we have tabled on the unacceptable apprenticeships against the struggling students. We remind you that prefectures live and reign from Arseni time to time. It was an article in the bill and it was removed. What are all the above amendments tabled by the JRC? Socialist measures? Aren't they real relief measures for popular mattresses? So that's not even your policy and your system? When did the JRC not support the slightest relief measure when, however, was it really such rather than a polluter or a false copy? Because the bill that you brought apart little crustaceans is full of anti-purpose margaritas. What are you, tell me, the regular schedule? What's the parallel? In the same direction they go, the same goal they have, the same anti-population policy they serve. A few examples are enough. Half the articles of the bill are about the Ministry of Health. That's what you're advertising more. They even start with the barbaric title: 'to ensure universal health care for the population and to upgrade the public health system'. Staying on the question of how this upgrading of the health system will take place when thousands of health workers are missing, without the necessary recruitment, and when the state continuously reduces the funding of public hospitals, let us look at the health coverage of uninsured people. You say that a condition for the provision of medical care is the possession of AMKA. However, there are those who do not have AMCAs, especially young people who have not found work or who have to work uninsured, as well as immigrants without legal documents, for whom there is no reference. It is, however, clear that the health coverage of uninsured persons will not be free, since it is clearly stated that the terms and conditions of access to nursing and medical care, as well as the possible financial contribution to medical expenses, on the basis of economic criteria, will be laid down in the future ministerial decision. And all this, in view of the fact that insurers are in an even worse economic position than insured workers, many do not even have income from them, much of them cannot pay for medical care as they pay - those who can still pay - the insured. Also, this article on health coverage of uninsured persons stipulates that expenditure will be covered by the EEA, the insurance funds, for the part of the benefits that uninsured persons will not pay and not by the State as we should have said. In other words, the state will not finance health care for uninsured people, but it will come from employee contributions. What are you seeking to achieve like this? Two birds with one stone. And manage the huge problem of uninsured people in logic "I take from the poor to give the poor" and cost nothing to the state. And we ask you openly: why are you not now accepting the amendment tabled by the JRC to this bill on public and free health and hospital care and welfare services, so that they can be provided to all people, exclusively from the state, free of charge, without conditions and conditions? Why don't you accept it? The answer, of course, is given by the bill itself with what it says about the Santorini Hospital, which will be a very public one, but will operate by a public limited company, with the well-known business cost criteria - benefit, viability and the minimum possible state funding. The hospital will be able to operate with revenue from the sale of its business to the insurance funds and patients directly or through payment through local tax. Pilot, then, the Hospital of Santorini! It reveals your real health plans, plans directly coming out of the European Union's strategy, for sustainable, efficient health systems by strengthening business action. In fact, for the sake of easier discharge of the State from its obligation to fund public health structures, you also bring a parallel amendment so that these structures can be financed by the municipalities and regions. Now, just how the municipalities will fund the hospitals in their area when their finances are in their black mess, that's not working. So two things may happen: or the hospitals will act as business even more or the municipalities will make superb fees. Either way, the people will still pay. You call that a relief measure? Finally, you really need to talk in the compensatory education bill, when reinforcement teaching in high school has not yet started, in primary school almost forbidden, and in high school additional teaching support has been referred to for the next year. We are, of course, talking about those children of poor people's families who do not have the financial means to go to school in order to give full - time education and see in front of the even higher class barriers to their education. Here's the class mark of your policy! As for the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Education, which actually abolishes the accession departments, what can one say? It is not only her outrageous justification by the Minister that it breaks - allegedly - the isolation and stigmatisation of those who are watching her. It now seems clear that the government's intention is to dismantle even these well-built structures of special education, beginning with the inclusion departments, by failing that a part of the integration that operates in a school, supports children who need personalised intervention, time differentiated and programme, and any development of the child, learning, requires time and effort. In conclusion, we think that in front of our people a dilemma is in place: will it be enough and compatible with the crumbs that you all throw away from him, the fund managers, in order to hide your anti-popular policy, or will he stand up and organize, with his own class flag, he will claim what he owns? We are sure that sooner or later he will choose the path of the race, the only realistic for him and his children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u140	Me too, Mr. Delia. I would ask the special speaker from Potami Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to come to Stepma. We shall conclude with Mr Papachristopoulos and Mr Georgiadis, and the Minister for Health will take the floor. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be brief, since today we are discussing a bill that has been taken by nickname - it is not his official name - 'a parallel programme'. I would remind you that the bill was withdrawn while the committee procedure was held on 17 December. The day before, the opposition had left. We had then heard a number of domestic trophies and various other seculars, common in the previous period. However, the next day the bill, which, as we have pointed out, had a clipboard and with many problems, was withdrawn - as I have said before - live from the House, which is an originality and record that has never happened, as far as I remember, in parliamentary times. Never had a bill been withdrawn in the way that this was withdrawn and, in my opinion, it was a humiliation not of the government but of the country. We were very surprised to see the same text, this text which has proved and 'with the bogeyman', which they say, was unprepared, problematic and unequivocal to come exactly the same - nothing has changed - in Parliament again, even though some - had gone through legislative acts and many have changed in three, four days when we were discussing it with amendments, legislative improvements, changes, withdrawals. A little - too much has become a mess. "You go, you come." Articles that were in the text were withdrawn, articles that were not in the text were in progress, so that we have a different bill in substance from what we are supposed to be discussing, a bill which was in existence this time and should be discussed and processed, and the articles should be renumbered in good time, to know what we are talking about. Due to a workload most likely - which is fashionable lately - it came as it was, it changed the course and still changes, and I fear that we will end up voting and changing. We also have something that Mr Brutsi mentioned earlier, the change in programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Barriott, excuse me for thirty seconds so that people don't leave and I'll keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u143	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, thirty-one members of the Association of Livaders Zurich Switzerland. Welcome to Greece and Parliament! The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u145	So I said that another problem that has been noted and since the President of the House is also here, I would like to stress it, is the issue of programming. It was scheduled for Wednesday at a single meeting and on Tuesday afternoon it went for Friday and Saturday in double. I would like to point out that, as far as I remember, the year I was in this House, I can hardly find a week of Parliament's programming that is valid, announced on Friday and valid until Friday. Here the change has specific reasons: it is purely communication and we all know it. I do not think the House can handle its own function in this way and I do not think the government is serious, which every three and a little for reasons of communication and minor interest changes the order, cancels, brings, takes back, changes. It's not a state of operation of the House! It's something that needs to be smoothed down. It does not create any - if you will - a strange feeling of yesterday's slogan and yesterday's communal mess with Mr Sfakianakis, with the officers' retire ments. If it is not possible for the government to sort out in detail the next week of the parliamentary procedure, it does not seem to me that things are rough, they change, they go, they come. At some point this must be stopped and we must be able to plan for the good of the parliamentary procedure. Saturday? Saturday. But we need to know this early and know that the process is going to be like this. There are bills coming, and most of them go, even the Congressmen themselves, do not get hampered. This has to stop sometime. Communicating games are done with this bill, the famous "parallel program". And you will allow me to observe that it is communication games with nothing. Because the parallel programme is likely to be the most falsified bill that has been filed in the House on the terms of general policy, because it is in fact empty. It has no serious modification, it has no direct and serious impact on the very difficult daily life of the Greeks. They're actually general. Not even the famous regulation of uninsured men, called and repeated by the government, is ready or will soon be in place. It is very difficult to talk about this bill, as I told the committees, in principle, because it has neither an average nor an end. Eight Ministries, at least eight different sections of articles, go, go and leave the only piece that is relatively uniform, that of the Health Legislation, just doesn't have any philosophy. They are patches in a health system which, anyway, falls apart and which cannot be supported, because the time to appoint doctors or how to transfer or extract nurses will change. There are much thicker problems, which this bill doesn't touch. The only common signal of the House is the attempt to relax the rules of public administration at all levels, in all ways, from all the ministries and the abundance of the state mechanism: Rusfetti, nominations, new committees. The bill makes another three - four committees - the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, as if we had not had enough - and it makes appointments, such as exceptional appointments to the OTAs, which are not within those approved by the Troika - and we will see how they will be made or costed, they are - and various micro-hards in colonies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u146	Tell them to the troika. You let her know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u147	Ask her yourself. She'll find out on her own, I imagine. You don't have to. Your ministers are talking now. You don't have to. Your ministers are talking about the troika, not about the institutions, at hotels, which the public pays, because you could not accept them with the ministries. We're going to Hilton now, and we're paying for Hilton. That's the difference. And let them know you don't have to let anyone else know. Okay? Beneficiary of pre-school institutions. It is a scandalous arrangement, in my opinion, for which Mrs Fotou insists. It has the right to finance NGOs and associations, with criteria in addition to existing legislation, without criteria, that is, as they want. I pointed out to you the other day, Mrs Fotou, and we are waiting for a change, we are waiting for clarification, we are waiting for the extra criteria. Bring them in. This one annulls the criteria of this law that you are amending. It follows a culture of arrangements from various ministries, which disperse clear arrangements in various bills, culminating in the Ministry of Education and the arrangements for this bay of the Hellenic Open University, in which they have been arranged by means of legislative acts, arrangements in Mr Vernardakis' bill, arrangements here, arrangements there. Download a bill for the Greek Open University, discuss it as necessary, see his philosophy and changes. This thing is extremely problematic and creates more problems than it solves. Nobody knows why he's going through what and what's changing. It can't work like this. And here comes the famous health bill. We've been waiting since January. As of last year, a health bill is due. It is the Ministry of Health's first legislative intervention in an environment and a time when, as the Minister himself admits, the YY is collapsed and hospitals are at risk from blackouts, at a time, especially when ITH have literally forgotten and patients persecuted are conspired at their entrance, while waiting for them to be hospitalized. And after we've let the ID close since September with some beds, since we haven't done anything from the upcoming blackout, then suddenly a bill comes that's what he's doing? There are other good things here and there - we will vote too many of them - other problems and others unnecessarily. Generally speaking, however, we are at another wavelength. The system collapses and we legislate things that will not affect the daily life of its operation to a minimum. They are so unprepared and so general that one doubts whether they will ever apply to reality. For the uninsured, the C.T.A. will be here. This is a particularly problematic issue and I am referring here to it in detail. For the Surgery List, I have to say 'blessed, but how?'. The bill explains absolutely nothing about how the list will be, who will control it, whom it will concern and so on. There are generalities, good intentions, but the result is zero. I told the committees that the bill is not bad, but it's a little bit. They're inadequate. I am afraid that in the new amendments I have to be repacked. The bill outlines an ESS without rules, organization, and regulations. It introduces a very dangerous logic of war zone. It makes the clandestine practically leverage overthrows the rules. It opens doors that will dismantle the system along the way. Converts the ambulances to the fire extinguishers. It's amazing. At the same time it shifts operating costs to the LAGs, without having contacted the LAGs and without putting such a legal framework in place to ensure their operation. These create deregulation and not regulation. There may be need, there may be acute situations that must be addressed. The system needs reform. We need a new model of operation of the National Health System - it is true - adapted to the needs, which are great, and to the resources, which are few. But it cannot be done either with tricks or with buffalo at the expense of OTAs. It can also be done with a debate on a new legislative framework. I know too many municipalities, who are willing to bear the operating costs of health centres and hospitals, provided that the funds are transferred - as was the case with schools - and there will be a clear legal framework. Hospitals and health centres cannot be financed simultaneously from two and three sources. It's a very, very big mistake. There's a solution: Reformation. Health centres in the municipalities in consultation with the CEDEFOP. It can be done. This thing can't work and it can't work in the short term. And let us move on to the famous issue of uninsured people, which is the headline of regulations and the bill on the social policy of the government, which says that through the parallel programme it has social policy. What exactly does the way the arrangement for uninsured persons comes? It says that beyond the special categories - foreigners, immigrants, pregnant women, etc. - for which no one can object, all the others, who have AMKA, are entitled to full free medical treatment in hospitals and pharmacies. However, there is a large category of self-insurers who do not pay - they are the so-called'strategic poor payers' - their contributions. These are a completely different charge. If they are covered without any criterion - and to explain ourselves, nobody says we leave them on the road, but find a different way - they will essentially act as a sleep for the insurance system. We have a certain reward system. When two similar entrepreneurs, for example, have the same treatment from the health system, while one pays and the other does not pay, the result is known: very soon no one will pay. This blows up the logic of the health system. There is a solution, there is talk, there are criteria, there is an improvement in the pre-insurance system, which already covers part of the uninsured, which has criteria. Change them, make them easier, electronically, faster, raise the limits within the limits to which the insured are covered, but have filters and insurance. Or we're going to an insurance system that abolishes contributions. There are other countries and it works. It's a really long conversation. It has different logic and many problems, but it could be adopted. [[At this point, the third Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Cristotopoulos, takes over the presidential office.]] The system in which pensioners, who recently received 6% of health pensions, will also pay the strategic bad payers and all the others who do not want to pay, either because they cannot, or because they do not have, or because they are not interested, is an unequal system. It's not a equality system. It is a system of inequality and deepening of weaknesses. To many, he's loading half the burdens on all, and it can't work, he can't go away. The great problem with the reasoning of the Ministry and the bill was the lack of a political and clear outline. What do they want? Where's the NSA going? We all see that there is a need for a major restructuring. There are several solutions, neoliberal, socialist or anything. Let's hear one. Will the CENs be implemented? I'm tired of asking. Will a state 100% system be implemented in primary care like what the Leoni-Benou proposal describes, or will something else be implemented, like what the European Community is promoting and which we have signed up to? What are we gonna do? Do we have a programming? Do we have any logic? Do we have a timetable for change to get out of the crisis? I said the other day that Portugal came out of the crisis and the memorandum with a reinforced health system, which has protected the weak financially, covering 100% of the pharmaceutical and nursing expenditure for anyone under 1500 euros. We can do something similar. We can talk about it. Unfortunately, however, the bill is unequal, contradictory and clipboard, as it was two months ago. Not a single line entered the level of philosophy and improvement of the provisions. In ending and looking after the rest for tomorrow, I would like, Minister, an appeal. For three - four weeks I have been trying to discuss in Parliament the great problem of intensive treatment units and the crisis that has been created because of the influenza and the weaknesses that existed, existed or increased - it does not matter - and it is not done. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a real emergency situation and a state of war these days, it is the situation with influenza and intensive care units. With not your responsibility, unfortunately, this has not been discussed in the House until now. So I call on you to talk, because there are many things that can be done immediately for next month. The crisis is for next month. There are private intensive beds that are empty. There are closed public units and within the same hospitals there are nurses and doctors who have experienced and worked in ICUs. There are solutions that you must look for, apply them, and I think that the House will be at your side and will support you, even if they need to make money from other funds or anything. It is an issue that hurts the Greek society and the image of the National Health System these days. It is a very serious matter which has not even received the appropriate publicity and, unfortunately, has not even been dealt with by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u149	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u150	The procedure followed in relation to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u151	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u152	Mr Kaklamanis announced that after the rapporteurs Mr Xanthos will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u153	After two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u154	Yeah. I would ask him, through you, to do so after the first six Members of Parliament, because we will also have to ask the Minister for the floor and that is not right. I would ask him to wait six Members, as the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, a party that I respect - and I mean that - the JRC brought a question to the House and asked for EUR 30,000 tax free for farmers and EUR 5 000 for every child. We were all present, selfish witnesses. I believe that everyone is judged by what he says. Today, fifteen or twenty days later, farmers themselves demand 12,000 euros tax free, have mitigated tons with regard to the withdrawal of insurance reform or at least to the most of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u157	Big farmers, not farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u158	I believe that the Prime Minister's meeting, which was self-evident, is the first time that Prime Minister has been saying 'children, come to discuss', which was an unfulfilled request decades ago and so far, this meeting is therefore almost on Monday. I am one of those who I have never said that farmers misclaimed what they claimed. I am one of those who has never said that a society that lives for six years in the recession is self-evident not to claim anything, because its tax capacity has reached nadir. Nor have I ever talked about stimuli, and I believe that neither are those who deal with these issues. I never heard the Apostle say such things or Katrugalo about incitings, etc. Never. I am referring to this, because over-excession in this Chamber many times. I think you should talk when you have something to say. If you keep reproducing things that you've said five hundred times and mostly characterizations, which I've heard a lot of people here today, you're judged. You're right to say it. So I have no hesitation to comment on two things. One thing I heard was the proposal by the Chief of Officerial Response to withdraw the insurance, at the same time as farmers and most employees have forgotten this request or at least implicitly do not mention it. I would like to praise him, however, for going out to Europe and talking about the refugee problem has taken a genuine national attitude. I will always make an effort in this Chamber to unite us. Whether I can handle it or not, I don't know, but I won't let go of it. I consider them unnecessary, especially for people who have voted for them a large part of the Greek citizens and sent them to the National Parliament. I would like to make two examples of this. Years, those who live in the villages – most of us are farmchildren and live in the villages – have seen a man living in a stroller, a constituent, a blind man, a psychiatrist. Until first there was no link for this man. He, if need be, care, health, welfare! There was no link. So Article 61 is coming, and I have said about excesses, so I consider it to be very essential that such an article - and for the first time it says that they may interfere with this helpless person who is disabled, who has a serious disability, who deserves something, and has no way of claiming his rights, health mediators, who some have even ironed them out. I'm not getting any irony at all. This is something I've been asking for for for many years and I see it happening. Now I'm going to article 44. Read carefully this bill coming. What's he saying? Years - I tell you that I went and made a farmer in Kefalonia and I didn't know my blindfold, nor an injection I didn't know how to do - the state was mocking the remote villages, the arid areas and sending a doctor who just got his degree. Respectful, but "something's going on in gypsy" and forgive me for the expression. No experience. So Article 44 is coming, and you know what this is all about, and what it says? First of all, it doesn't oblige you, to do a specialty, to have already done an outdoor service. Most important of all, since you've done a specialty and you're almost a specialist doctor, go do your farm homework before you get the specialty paper, because you're an experienced doctor. And most important of all: I'm in and sitting in Athens and I'm doing all this or around here anyway. An uncivilized area? You're modulated seven times over. I do not want to get to the individual articles and to remind you that for the first time we are looking after the homeless. Read carefully all the articles of this bill and if there is a copy, I am delighted to hear it. Because what I hear - I don't want to tell them again the descriptions - they don't match either aesthetics or sound. Or for the wonderful community centers. I have heard a copy of this article that it will be two-speed centres, one for normal, etc. Not at all. Read the article carefully. For the first time, it gives us the possibility of a closed society that we are acquainted with in Athens - in Xylokastro, which I am and in my village Melissi, and I know in this community centre who needs help and what - if you are a young scientist as much as city fees, etc. And if you have, get rid of it, at least in your first period of time. That's what an Athenian can't know. The central government doesn't know that. It's something the municipalities will regulate. And for the first time the NRP programs - do not hide behind our fingers, some friends have managed them so far and we know where they were going - they are going to these programs of the Civil Service Centre. I would also like to remind you that I am one of those who - if I may say so - have been screaming for years: do something for intensive care units. Two articles in this bill take care of them. Read carefully what Article 74 says and what Article 51 says. You know that recruitment was forbidden for a long time. The Ministry's leadership has been exploited as far as possible by CEDEFOP to legalise these recruitments and fill the intensive care units. Don't hide behind our finger. It is not a question of solving it, but it is a question of temptation. It is another thing of supply and demand to be one to ten and another to be one to three, one to five, one to four. And another thing I've been screaming for, too, years is: Give kids, motives. A nurse who works at the dermatologist is leaving two o'clock and goes to her children and to her family, and yet she is paid the same as the nurse who is in the intensive care unit, has no weekend and has no Christmas, she has nothing. For the first time, paid extra leave is granted to all staff working in intensive care units. Are these insignificant? And I haven't got the most important. Are they trivial? Is it anything? Is it or isn't everyday? First of all, let us clarify a matter. I have nothing with the glamorous medical centers. I have said so to the committee, and I will repeat it now. Both in Denmark and the Netherlands, Minister. These private hospitals inspect. Today, unfortunately, when we worked in. Hospital of "EVALUATION" and I was a on-call coordinator, at 3 o'clock all the glamorous private centers were intercepting the heavy incidents. Why? After they had taken half of their property, they were brought to the "cross", public doctors, the difficult incidents, the complicated ones. He needs on-call rules and rules, not spending another half of his fortune. I repeat that I have nothing, many of these centres are very good, but a poor man who has no identity, has forgotten her at home and is uninsured and I don't care where she is, I'm sorry to say it - it's a heavy talk - he's gonna die like a dog with a heart attack or brain in front of the door of such a glamorous private center. Why? I'm saying this because I think for the first time it was heard that there would be a point of attraction for the country - incredible things - because someone who has no papers, I'll put him in because he had a stroke, because he has a heart attack, because he has an aorta aneurysm, and I'm gonna operate. It will become a attraction and the refugees and economic migrants will be gathered again. Forget that argument. You are wrong by those who say so and invoke it. There are too many ways - but there is something that does not concern us today - not to be a attraction for these people. When a man is in our country and needs medical care, we have to give it to him. I have a personal example. I was in Denmark uninsured and took off my shoulder. So I found that there is a special code for uninsured persons. In Denmark twenty-five years ago! And I don't like the magnificence of those who talk about solidarity. That's self-evident, isn't it? What's he gonna say? A little kid who doesn't have paper and paper, what are we gonna do with it? We're going to get rid of it? Oh, no! As far as the issue of uninsured citizens is concerned, this government, when it first came to power in January, found three million - it is not two and a half million, Minister, but three million! - uninsured citizens who cannot pay their contributions and all the rest. It's an attempt, giant. Don't be sure it'll get you 100%, but it's a positive step. Barack Obama's been fighting it for eight years, seven, actually. And the strong America, whose one fifth of citizens live, for those you don't know, in poverty, under bridges in Oakland. It's not just Hollywood and California, Los Angeles and I don't know what. There are other areas! There is incredible poverty with a health system that offers nothing. Even call the doctor, charge it to you, and the tax bill comes from you. Is that what we want? This country we want? I don't want this country. Oh, no! I mean, there should be compassion for this program. As far as the O.R. list is concerned, I told the committees too. You know what happened? If I am the director of a clinic, my resident who depends on me, and curator II and I, who is on the newspaper, are shaking if they object to me. I have said that there should be independent emergency centres where they become 'Bosnia-Herzegovina', 'Syria' and they go by saying. It should be independent. The doctor, who has no reliance on the director of the clinic in which the incident is going, should determine which incident is heavy or not. End this story! It's going to be a great step, and I think it's going to be completed. In fact, you write that this is not the case, i.e. the O.R. List for emergencies. I fully agree with you. Who will judge what incident is urgent and what is not? The Director who has his/her current downstairs, or the Director of the Emergency Branch, who is independent of the managers? Look at it! I don't want to say any more and I won't need any more time. I think it's a bill that needs to unite us. This bill must unite us! And I have no hesitation to say again to Mr Mitsotakis - abyss - that separates me from his ideas - who took a national stand on the refugee issue now that he has gone to Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening! Once again we have a transfer of the debate from Wednesday to the weekend. I have said so to the committee, but I would like to remind everyone who is here, but also to the Greek people that it is difficult to postpone our programmes every time. I would remind you that this weekend, namely on Sunday, we have the Ioannina liberation celebration. So we had a trip planned. I imagine that many of you province MPs are also changing your programmes. We understand that the Prime Minister wants to talk to us tomorrow, we understand the need to speak on the agenda, but at some point all these changes at the last minute will have to be stopped. And I say this once again, since I am given this opportunity through the plenary step. I will begin today's speech, first of all, on another amendment which comes into the day and which we will discuss in plenary on the part of the Ministry of Health, which now legalises appointments for poster and health care workers. We'll have more rappers, that is, family and health. We didn't get enough of everything else, we'll have them there too! So I continue somewhat unorthodox and you will understand why I am saying it. You say that the parallel programme you bring us to vote will address the problems of the humanitarian crisis. At least that's what the Prime Minister said in an election. Let the institutions say what they want, we will bring a parallel programme and face the humanitarian crisis. That's what you said! In other words, you are coming to support all of you in this bill, which you had withdrawn until December. Some languages say that the Brussels people asked to withdraw this bill. You refused. Anyway, I won't go on anymore. Obviously, it may have been cold in December and right now it's spring and you want to bring it in so that all the employees smile. From my home, then, and coming to Parliament, I only counted with my own eyes some dozen homeless. The homeless, gentlemen, increased by 30% compared to 2009. According to the data of the Municipality of Athens, reliable media and related organizations, Greece currently counts about thirty thousand homeless. They sleep in benches, in tunnels, on the sidewalk, in cars, in abandoned houses and factories. Approximately 90% are Greek and 10% foreigners, who have been in Greece for over 8 years. And all this, without counting on refugees and incoming immigrants. We're going to education, now, level of the homeless, which is pretty high. 52% is out of high school, a 25% high school, and there is a 20% that's finished university or TEI. Most were workers, mainly in sectors that have been irreparably affected by the crisis, either in craft industries or in factories and in many others. The vast majority of them are in Athens. According to the UN Commission on Human Rights, Athens is located in the country of 15 of the world's cities in percentages of homeless. Of the nearby capitals only Budapest and Moscow can compete with us on this list, while other cities are Jakarta in Indonesia, Bombay in India, Buenos Aires in Argentina, São Paulo in Brazil. I am tabling on the practical sources of this information from the articles we have found. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's just do some math. Let's say the average number of homeless, the average is about twenty-five thousand. A allocation of EUR 100 million in the year's budget could represent around EUR 4,000 a year for each homeless person. This is how we solve them not only the problem of their housing, but we could have them enter reintegration activities, which will also generate income to the state but also to them. The cost of the parallel project, as you have told us, is around EUR 100 million. According to the Opposition, it's bigger than what you've told us. The majority of the parallel programme, as we will see and then, concerns clean parts of the customer state. There are, of course, some positive points, such as the six-month contracts and, of course, there are some crumbs, such as exemption on municipal fees, health care on vulnerable groups, and some information activities on their rights to the municipalities. But that's as far as it goes. That is the end of care for the real humanitarian crisis, and that is where your care for the client state begins. And you know what? I will not tell you to take the parallel program back, although if you took it back, you would help deal with the homeless problem, which is now the number of a vulnerable group in Greece. Apply it. But let me tell you where you could find this money? Last year you gave about 580m euros to PPC's insurance fund and another 540m to OTE's insurance fund. I mean, if we do that, it's over 100,000,000 euros. That was the state grant to get high pensions your own children of the ever mighty ECHO. If you saved an 8% of these in favor of the homeless, you would have solved their problem once and for all. You, the so-called left-wingers, don't want to cut 100 euros of your own children's pensions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u161	What you're saying doesn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u162	Don't they keep what I'm saying? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u163	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u164	There aren't any. It's okay. We're not having a dialogue right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u165	Just one word. Many times both PPC's fund and OTE's fund were used by IKA to pay the pensions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u166	Okay. We're not having a conversation right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u167	Even the employers, the OAU.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u168	You've learned to interrupt anyone who talks and says things you don't like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u169	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u170	Please don't have a dialogue. It's not a cadet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u171	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u172	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u173	You don't want to cut PPC's pensions and you want to step on the homeless to come to Parliament! Keep doing it. Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u174	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u175	It's all hypocritical and it's a attitude you don't want to change. If there was a union of the homeless to vote you, we'd be talking differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u176	You're a young man. You're taking bad lessons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much. I'm not taking lessons from you now ruling. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You've learned to interrupt. You like that, go on. You don't just do it to me, you do it to those who say you don't like it. After all, we have said that those who are not in agreement with you are either Chrysayers or intertwiners. You mentioned it before. Anyway, this reference to me is necessary both for you and for those who are listening, so that they understand what a really humanitarian crisis means. Obviously, you are not aware of this importance, and that is why you have also put in the bill for the transfer of municipal police officers. Serving, in other words, a policeman in institutions is inhuman. A man sleeping in Monastery, under zero conditions, is human. Since you guys think that's right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u178	This article does not exist inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u179	There isn't. When did you change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u180	There isn't. If you read, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u181	Let us now look more specifically at certain points in the parallel programme, so that people can understand what it is all about. You continue to have the degrading wages of employees through the OAED programme. It's so low that it really the unemployed person right now, it's more likely that he gets the OAED money than getting in, joining and hired in a business. In other words, you prefer to subsidise unemployment despite work. There's also the relevant article, 5.1 in this bill. You are shouting about the issue of non-governmental organisations. In the parallel program, not only do you not remove the relationships of lawlessness between the state and the NGO, but you are opening a new cycle for the splitting up of public money for your favoured. The scheme of the grant of non-governmental organisations and the financing decision continue to depend exclusively on the state administrations, the ministries, the regions, the welfare, etc. And to remind you how the NGO fraud is going on. NGOs do not distribute profits, which is why they are called non-profit organizations. They can, however, distribute side by side, and it is well known. They find a friend, cut invoices for virtual services, or overpriced real services. So they come out of the funds and go into private pockets. I guess you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u182	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u183	You don't know that? Now you're learning. Of course, Mr Papadopoulos, you never know. You're learning it now. If you don't know, why did you report it in the election? Electionly complained of this, too, when you were not government. And he says it in Article 5, but I won't read it for an economy of time. Let's see something else critical, which is in Article 10 of the parallel programme. We see that the autonomy of local government is limited and the intervention of the state is increasing within municipalities. It states that: "It ensures the participation of the Ministry's political leadership and service structure. This means more rheumatism, more authoritarianism, even in local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u184	Article 10 concerns SMEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u185	You tend to gather all the power in your hands. There are no independent authorities for you, there are no local authorities, there are no competent bodies. There are only detainees, the absolute trust of the monarch Prime Minister. That is why you like to visit Iran and admire the way the Persian regime operates, and obviously, you also copy ideas from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u186	Well, you're wrong with the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u187	Let us move on to Article 11. Even simple matters, in which we believe you may bring change, go from evil to worse. There are still illegals and offenders, who are appointed to the public, and I will mention this: to put someone on holiday, he must order a crime or a court judgment of the primary court for a felony. I mean, if there's a primary court sentence for a crime, it's still working. He's on holiday, common availability, and he's paid 50% of his salary. In other words, we have irrevocably referred to a felony we pay for. The private employee at the moment, if he's watching us, if he hasn't broken his TV, considers the aspect of this bill at least outrageous. Why? Because in the private sector only with the assumption that you may be illegal, you've been driven out by concise procedures. You want to build a state that will appear and be 'Kosta Nostra'. At the moment, our country is 'blooding' and not because of cuts in wages and pensions. "He's bleeding" primarily because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u188	You must be ashamed of yourself. Take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u189	You must be ashamed of yourself, not me. You rule and have brought our country all this time into the deadlock.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u190	Why don't you step in, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u191	Because Mr Georgiadis answers and opens up a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u192	Mr Georgiadis has been interrupted 15 times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u193	Yes, but he must not answer, go ahead with his word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u194	What honors me is, when the speaker speaks, to be heard by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Voridis. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u196	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u197	You have never said 'Kosza Nostra'. It's just us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Georgiadis, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u199	When you were opposition, you said nothing. We, when we talk, are bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u200	This isn't a field!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u201	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u202	Everybody, don't interfere. I think I can run the conversation. Mr. Georgiadis, don't answer all holidays. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u203	They're obviously annoying what I'm saying. As I was saying, our state is "haemorrhaging", primarily because it is unable to produce primary money. The private sector is once again at the forefront and has to bear the burden it does not owe. The private sector must pay almost equal number of pensioners, but also a huge amount of government spending and economically non-active citizens. In other words, 'no', ladies and gentlemen. A healthy private professional who is currently active in Greece should be written in the book Ginas for a record of endurance and optimism. If we consider overtaxation from the first euro, high insurance contributions, extraordinary raisins, intimidating control of the local tax collector, huge bureaucracy and hostile climate in public services, Greece is currently completely inappropriate for the development of private initiative. What does that mean? Continuous recession, tax insufficiency, constant misery and introverting. Our proposals to reduce unemployment are clear. I will mention the low and uniform rates of taxation, the tax credits for young innovative enterprises, the reduction of the non-wage costs for young professionals. We propose computerization and technological development in the range of state machine. You don't want this because you obviously want there to be more civil servants and more posts to appoint. In conclusion, I would like to stress this point: The ideological site of the centre, which we represent, has always supported consensus. We are not followers of extreme negatism and polarization. In order to reach a consensus, however, you must stop behaving in this way. Your election speech was only a pretext. Now you have closed your ears in all the proposals of the Opposition and, as I mentioned before, you see only extreme right-wing and fascists who oppose your own great democratic decisions. The members of the Centro Association may be young in public life and without a party past. But they are deeply politicised, ladies and gentlemen, and they know exactly what they are asking for in a government of salvation for the country. We need to cut off the client state, we need to cut off the wages, the arrogant and overnumbered per person's pensions, the overpaid wages of all the hereditaries and, more generally, the attitude that, without virtual prosperity, currently prevails. We must now produce work and no longer charge the private sector. We must make Greece a modern country, attractive to investment both from the domestic and from the outside - if that word - investment factors are correct. I would like to close with something I read and liked: 'Greatness is not dependent on money, but on goods'. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, wealth for a country is not its available money but its workers and services. The lies are over. Without private entrepreneurship, without promotion of innovation, without industry, without primary production, we are leading to the cliff. And it turns out you're ready and pushing us. We shall once again reserve ourselves, because we do not know and what amendments will come by the end of the day and will be placed on the articles when the vote comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u204	The cycle of special speakers is over. And now the Minister of Health had to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u205	May I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u206	There has been a proposal, Minister, for the Members to intervene. After all, the proposal that exists is for every five Members to speak by a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u207	I don't want to talk. I would like to table a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u208	I'm not talking to you, Mr. Cironi. I'm talking about the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u209	Does the Minister want to speak? Has he asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u210	Yes, he has asked why to speak at this stage. However, because it is then said that the parliamentary representatives will be asked to speak, so we are all asking for rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u211	Yes, the parliamentarians too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u212	So, Minister, can you wait? Will you also speak of the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u213	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u214	So I will start with the list of speakers, I will call five Members, and the Minister for Health will follow. Parliamentary representatives will then speak - not all of them, at least two - so that some Members can speak again. Mr. Chironis has been asking for the floor for a minute, for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 78 of the draft law on the extension of building permits, I supplement the words ‘as well as building permits issued in accordance with the provisions of Law 4030/2011’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u216	Mrs Georgios has the floor. You've got nine minutes. You will speak in principle and in articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u217	Madam President, we do not have a situation of speakers yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u218	Should I tell the next one? Mr. Konstantinos Vlassis, Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas, Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos and Mrs. Diamanto Manolakos Manolakos are the first five. You have the floor, Mrs. Genias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the government is starting to build the welfare state which was destroyed by the neoliberal policies of 2009-2014. We are bringing to Parliament one of our main programme commitments: the social body of the parallel programme. We have made a commitment that in these lame times we will assume the responsibility of implementing a difficult agreement which does not express us, but at the same time of promoting measures that are pillars of support for the weak. Despite the desperate attempts of counterpopulation to block this bill with various communal terrestrial and mudshits, today will become the law of the state and will provide solutions for tens of thousands of our people in need. It is therefore a negative impression and a question for the systematic and persistent reaction of opposition MPs not to support measures that really help to support our fellow citizens who have been hit by the maximum. These are measures that will help our fellow people who suffer from the grief of the ineffective and liberal policy of the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, from your systematic indifference to take into account the vital problems of the economically weak, the populaces from your unilateral cooperation with the engagement, the possessors and the possessors. Today, then, we have the opportunity to all join together. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you also have to support it so that we can do what you have been able to do a long and long time ago: there is universal, health coverage for all citizens, even for uninsured people, for all vulnerable groups. To promote arrangements for strengthening public care and the reorganisation of the health system, strengthening education and work. I would like to focus on a few points and I would like to emphasise the importance of the provisions in principle to cover our uninsured people. Groups that will be covered include pregnant, children, chronic patients, patients and toxicologically dependent. We aim and ensure full and free access to two and a half million people. Two and a half million lives, ladies and gentlemen, which the New Democracy-PASOK coup d'état chose not to see, not to see, to despise and condemn in physical extermination. It offers everyone access to public health structures, full diagnostic, pharmaceutical and nursing coverage based on AMKA. Recognises that this is an essential condition for strengthening the resources health system. The coverage of the national public health system with human resources is immediately regulated. The procedure is designed to facilitate recruitment and incentives for the establishment of hospitals and health centres, in the homes of the country's barren areas. Incentives are given in the form of subsidies from regions and municipalities in kind and money to doctors who make their countryside to cover the vacancy of their region. The obstacles to expression of interest to cover positions in hospitals for qualified persons are removed. It will also make it easier for doctors with hospital experience to serve rural hospitals. The on-calls of doctors and scientific staff are regulated to ensure greater security in hospital on-calls and to reorganise OSH doctors' and disciplinary boards to investigate and deal with negligence and corruption cases. An important setup is that of the O.R. List. The date of treatment of each patient ceases to be the subject of a transaction with the physician concerned. For the first time, therefore, provisions aiming at equal, transparent, timely, safe and untraded patient service are laid down. The patient's life goes first. We want and we make a system more friendly to all citizens. We want and legislate to combat corruption and segregation in all areas, particularly in the neural health sector. In addition to what is regulated in the health sector, important contributions are made in other key sectors such as education and work, the protection of the unemployed. There are issues relating to support teaching in schools. There are arrangements that promote the issues of special education and training, the institution of lifelong learning is being strengthened. We are currently putting in place measures to combat unemployment and mitigate the economic effects of the economic recession, such as the establishment and operation of a mechanism for the diagnosis of labour market needs by the partnership of the National Institute of Labour and Human Resources and the establishment of a relevant network to improve the interconnection of supply and demand. Is problems solved? Oh, no. We know that. But all these are measures that relieve our fellow citizens. This is all a legislative initiative which includes arrangements that go beyond the agreements with lenders and promotes interventions which have an undeniable positive social sign and which are compensatory to the costs of the agreement. We recognise that austerity measures and budgetary restrictions remain. However, the will and the clear position of the government to lay the limits of the sacrifices of the Greek people is stated. They are interventions with a clear political signal, which is universal coverage and poverty, an intervention which is against the previous government's neoliberal plan, which provided for the continuous decline in public care and the social state. That is essentially why the citizens chose SYRIZA to manage this difficult programme of lenders, because they recognise both the intention and the political interventions that will protect the people, because they know that, as far as possible, we will try to alleviate the difficulties that inevitably exist. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I am pleased that this bill is being passed today and I am voting in favour both of the principle and of the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Vlasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, under other circumstances the House and the entire Greek society should celebrate these hours, because the time has finally come to vote on the infamous parallel programme of SYRIZA, this legislative section that will give relief to the Greeks from the size of the Memorandum commitments. Unfortunately, however, I do not see any manifestations of joy and smiles of optimism anywhere. Instead, I see around me a country in two, a country worldwide protesting, a country, with all its social classes, reacting to the streets because it is thrown from everywhere. The explanation for all this is simple and as the popular wisdom usually describes it with glaucoma: Lies have short feet. For many years since you took over the power, your election commitments have collapsed, with which you have kept the Greek people's vote a few months ago. When we said 'we're not doing anything', you were talking about a parallel programme. The parallel project was your main weapon that would serve as a counterweight to the cruelty of the Memorandum measures and would confirm Mr. Tsipras' firm position on a coup d'état of the partners. Today it turns out that the parallel program is nothing more than another communication trick, coming from the arsenal of your populism. Only the world has taught you and understands that what you baptize incision and solution is nothing more than a patch, it's nothing more than the aspirin we give to a severely ill. And since I have used a simulation that is relevant to my profession as a doctor and the general health sector, I should like to go a little further into some of the relevant articles of the bill. You are proud of Article 33 and the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups, which, provenly, had already been guaranteed by the New Democracy by the two relevant ministerial decisions. Unless, as a part of this matter, you define paragraph 2. Of course health is a good that must be safeguarded without social exclusion. But keep in mind that the hypotheses of paragraph 2 may function as a courier for some who will want to exploit the hospitable and human side of Greece and the Greeks. And let us not forget that during our entire administration there was not one, whether Greek or not, legally citizens of this country who had no free care. And right now, all you achieve is those who are illegally here or illegally will be found, able to examine, operate with everything free of charge. Of course, in the vicinity of countries such as Albania, Skopje and others, you can be sure that the ladies will come here free of charge, operate here free of charge, and all of us, the middle class, will pay this bill. And of course, as for the financial burden that will be created...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u222	That's the doctor's opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u223	...you know it's not just 100 million euros, it's much bigger.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u224	So, all for free, and the Greeks nothing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u225	Don't talk about it. You've accomplished that in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u226	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u227	The whole world's gonna pay. We'll pay for those who want to come here illegally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u228	Is that what your science says, Doctor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u229	That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u230	Is that what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u231	That's what it says, yes. Because as a doctor, I've given written samples, and I've stuck a lot more meaning than many of you are in here. And of course, the insured will pay him once again. Those of you who are mocking their ears and you're coming to the end to give them the bill. You also promised to increase the funding for hospitals and to strengthen primary health care. I would remind you, of course, that the financing of hospitals has been reduced by 260 million. While the time-limits... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're one year government. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u232	You've been forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u233	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u234	You're not opposition anymore. Don't mess things up. You're the one who made the budget and made cuts. In addition, consumables but also certain groups of medicines are now species to be extinct. As for primary health care, if you consider that the hypotension problem will be solved by incentives such as the ones provided for in Article 43, you may be mistaken. By transferring your responsibilities to Ottas and to legal persons governed by public law, who are called upon to take over the doctors of barren regions by offering them food and shelter, you do not solve the problem. The same transfer of responsibilities is being made with the amendment to cover the exceptional operational needs of public health structures by the LAGs. This amendment is a direct assumption of your failure. You are unable to provide the hospitals with the basics to function and call on the municipalities to pay the bill for jars, oil and all necessary. And all of this from budgets to cover other basic needs of local communities. And you'll find these in front of you. I don't get the impression of all this. That's how you've been working for a year and I didn't expect you to change now. You hide behind your finger, transfer responsibility to others, and even though you now see the indignation of the world, you insist on treating citizens as natives, offering them mirrors to let them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u235	That's the judge you're judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u236	Because only as such treatment can I accept Article 58 for the Surgery List, when hundreds of lives of our fellow people have been lost unfairly due to a lack of beds in intensive care units.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u237	Who spoke of... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u238	Did you think at the end of 2014 there were these problems, or did you just create them this year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u239	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u240	Apologise to the dying world who is intubated in hospitals and awaits an intensive bed because you have closed sixty beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u241	Which you secured?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u242	So many doctors left the system. Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u243	Shame on you. There is official evidence that flu mortality in 2013 was the largest in Europe, recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u244	Mrs. Jufi, please. We won't have a dialogue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u245	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u246	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order as soon as the speaker is finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u247	I'm trying to force order. Mr. Comrade, don't answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u248	I could list many cases of communication tricks in this bill in all areas. You are announcing compensatory training under Article 26 while we are in mid-February and there are thousands of real gaps which do not allow for the proper functioning of schools. You know, good intentions can only be recognised as such when they have a realistic context on the basis. In any other version they are, at best, a wish and, at worst, a mockery. So the New Democracy, as a power of responsibility, clearly cannot in principle agree with this draft law. Not because we're making a sterile opposition. After all, we will say 'yes', which you have never done two and a half years, when you lifted the banner of the revolution and now you see everything in front of you in the local societies that you are ashamed of. We are prepared to agree with something that is necessary and correct. We have proved that, after all. But we cannot support a parallel programme which has resulted in direct deception. We cannot become accomplices to SYRIZA - ANEL’s efforts to sell social policy and sensitivity, without a substantial impact on the afflicted Greeks. They deserve better than that. They deserve more than that. They expect us to be consistent with words and actions. They expect us to start a jump faster than wear, which will lead to a better tomorrow. And unfortunately, you have failed everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u249	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u250	What do you want, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u251	I'll be very brief. Madam President, I am addressing you as President who is currently directing the debate. So far, apart from the government, Mr Economou has been placed as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vlasi on behalf of the New Democracy and - let me - Mr Georgiadis from the Central Association. The image of interrupting speakers from SYRIZA Members is unacceptable. It does not honour either Parliament or democratic procedures. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] They're interrupting me now, too. Do you stand democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u252	Okay, Mr. Brutsi, but it's not unprecedented. That's what's happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u253	I would ask you, Madam President, to impose order. This is a Parliament and it is not a party organisation of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u254	I believe that your intervention was correct and will be taken into account. Mr. Hajisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u255	And say the party, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u256	Let him say it himself. I'm not talking about a party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u257	Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u258	Good. You're satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u259	In the parallel program of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, we saw before Christmas how the government and Parliament generally operate. We saw the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River depart, denounced that the measures have not been costed and that they will not be accepted by the lenders. The ministers said that they would go against what was said by those who left and finally, after a couple of days, withdrew it. It may be late for the government to receive the email with the orders, I do not know the New Democracy can have an official who can only deal with it, keep renewing the incomings, not to mention any delay in executing the orders that are coming. It is not the question, of course, of what is in the parallel programme or what has been removed. The point is what you never thought of integrating into these programmes. You called it a parallel program. To be understood in the world that listens to us, because it has this barbaric title, it is supposedly equivalent to benefits in the measures that have come from the memoranda. In other words, with this programme the weak social groups will see a substantial benefit. We will, however, see what benefit they will see. Will it be like the previous ones, the polemics, with the doses that you took back, where the coefficients increased? There are - it says - some benefits now in kilowatts of electricity. The criteria are so strict that they can be integrated into this measure, especially those who no longer have a home. Those who have a home will not use the current for lighting or cooking only, they will use it in heaters, for heating in general. Because if they meet the criteria it is understood that they will not have oil or anything else to burn. You will effectively lure them to overrun these kilowatts, because they are not even able to live for the heating, within the four-month period that the clearer says and they will re-establish debts. However, since I mentioned those who have no homes, homeless say to them, what will they benefit from just the rental subsidy? Twenty-five and thirty thousand homeless in Attica, who have no rent, why do they have no home, live on the streets, live on the sidewalk, how will they benefit from rent subsidies? They have no rent. They don't have a home. Those who need rent subsidies are too many compared to those who will ultimately take the subsidy and are only for nine months. Provision is also available for selected public officials who were first sentenced, but they will be able to get 50% of their salary until the case is finalised. That's great! The Members of the Golden Dawn, however, have not yet been tried first. Many of us don't even have paperwork. Unless someone here knows something about the others. They haven't told us yet. However, the Ministers and Members of the European Parliament have not taken part in this debate. Paulakis, Xanthos, Mousalas, Ms. Christodoulopoulos, formerly unlikely, did not answer our questions on the pretext that we were involved in a criminal organization trial. You know, it's not that you refuse to answer me for being a Member of the Golden Dawn Kilkis or other competitors. Refugee to hundreds of thousands of our voters, on issues that concern them and we put them in parliamentary control. You do not deny the funding on the Golden Dawn. You deny food, medicine, school items, to thousands of our fellow humans. Because that's where the financing of the Golden Dawn went. And what should hurt you more as left-wing, you anti-regulatory left-wingers, is that you methodically and firmly destroyed every measure of the people's reaction, in excellent cooperation of course with Lafazan and his team, at the first session of your governance. You played very well - I would say - the good and bad cop. One wanted to pass, the other didn't want to. You've finally gone through everything. Your voters in January who reacted and wanted to leave the memoranda and believed you, brought them to the point in September not even to vote. You have targeted and succeeded in replacing the voters of "no" with the voters of "yes", who are following the governmental dynamics of the party in question only because of the government coming out. You have scattered and completely degraded the institution of the referendum and made it seem ridiculous to have any proposal on any issue that anyone raises in the future for a referendum. You wanted 'yes' to come out in the referendum. You were promised by the authors of the crisis scenario that it would come out 'yes', but the people broke it up and went out 'no'. Perhaps what you complained about earlier, that in the referendums they also voted for trees, you should do it too, so that you do not have to carry out these ridiculousities of changing the result of the poll. Parallel program SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to say parallel reality or even virtual reality better. In this virtual reality, then, they received only high-ranking public service executives, with increases and arrogances, while low-grade and uniforms are slain wages. Some fired cleaners from the public sector and ERT received equivalents, while hundreds of thousands of private employees and cleaners are again in unemployment. The free professionals and farmers are starving and accepting the charismatic shot from the third memorandum. In this virtual reality you have some things for free, homes for free, electricity for free, medical treatment for free, food for free, water for free, internet for free. But these equivalents are only enjoyed by foreigners. At the same time, not all of these are given benefits not only to the unemployed Greeks, but also to those who work. They're cut off PPC, cut off their water, cut off their phones, they're hungry for their children in schools. This is your parallel reality! For NGOs now. You give them - you are basically calling them to participate - lists of invoiced actions which often have nothing to do with humanitarian incentives. Volunteers are well paid. They go and work in Idome, with seven euros an hour for twelve hours. Their share is eighty-four euros. Mayors hear about NGOs in those areas and creep it out because they live in their way. They can't do anything. These determine how the area works there. We don't feel sorry for them either, because we told them it was going to happen, but they thought they were going to have money down there and that their municipalities would be Paris or I don't know what they thought. Whole hotels are rented in Polykastro by NGOs, but not for refugees, but for themselves. Huge accounts in taverns and restaurants, but not for refugees to eat, but for them to eat. Lands around the hotspots are paid for the next 10 years. They know that the refugee problem will probably not be solved in the next ten years. On the back of the immigrants there are strong jobs with cigarettes and rewards. And today you pass the parallel program. Will a Greek feel it? Will this be a better life for a Greek family? Finally, I cannot help expressing my concern about the international developments that have to do with us. Turkey is now cramped, looking for a victim to bite. The Skopje have brought troops to our border to manage - supposedly - the refugee flows. Bulgarians have brought troops to our borders to manage the refugee flows as well. The only ones who don't have an army at our borders are us Greeks. They've demilitarized all the areas. In Kilkis, one division, one brigade and the other ten camps have been left to operate one and a half camps and one is multinational. It's like it doesn't exist and maybe it's worse that there is. The only organized groups, a large number of people, on our borders are the Muslims of hotspots, no one else. But don't tell us now about security valves, about naval forces like the Aegean or anywhere else. The same was said in Cyprus about exercises and early April lies. I fear that the times we live, unfortunately, are similar to the last days of the fall of Istanbul and its salt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the parallel programme and I think we should start the debate by the 'Health mediator'. You will shortly be voting on the appointment by the Minister of Health of acquaintance as ombudsmen. It's really parallel to the program, it's an appointment, as you know, as you can see, of friends and everything else! I think that's what he's saying. Mr. Xanthi, I will present your speech to the House today on 5 February 2014. It is a monument of hypocrisy, lies, of what you were saying at the time as a responsible rapporteur and what you are saying today. [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above address, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth reading the speech of the current Minister and then the rapporteur for SYRIZA. Secondly, you will remember, because you were rapporteur, Minister - do not let, at least, the New Democracy take this - that after your own and my frustrations, he entered the primary care 'for the uninsured'. Do you remember that, Minister? I'm filing the FEK for primary care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u262	The word came in, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Xanthos, now that you're Minister, you'll be able to implement it. If anyone didn't do it - and he didn't - you've been Minister for a year to implement it. So don't ask the other guys. The previous ones were judged. Did you carry out what you found ready for a year? Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur spoke of all the issues in the parallel programme. But because of my competence and after a debate in the parliamentary group, you will allow me to speak about Rule 23. Here the government has a master of the channels, a master of the internet, now has a master of the garbage, Mr. Tsironi, who just left. What does Article 23 say? Here are interests, money and we need to see what is going on and what you are going to vote on. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, be patient. It says that Article 17(11) of Law 4071/2012 as applicable is repealed. You know what's going on? He's talking about PPPs, ladies and gentlemen. So listen. Waste, a very big issue for local communities, is money mainly for the citizens, and all these conventions must be, Minister, for the benefit of the citizens. The government may intervene in any procedure to benefit the citizens. And that's what you have to do. Do you do this with that law? Oh, no. You're playing hard with interests. Very hard, as you play with channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u264	The interests...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u265	With hard interests, and I'll tell you. The same lies Mr. Stathakis says. Because they're money issues from the NSRF. What did Mr. Stathakis say? He said, "we have closed all the issues from the previous programme" until the Commissioner responsible got out and said, "We have agreed with Mr Stathakis that 1 billion euros will take it from the Public Investment Programme." Tell me, Minister: Do you know how much the Public Investment Project is in the country? It's 700 million. Where will you find 1 billion in two years to give it to implement and complete the projects? So it means you're sending 2 billion back. I'm glad Minister Skourletis has arrived. The Minister responsible for this is not here, but the Minister, Mr Skourletis, is present at the Ministry of which Mr Tsironis is a member. I shall therefore present to you, Mr Skourletis, a document from 3 November 2015 from the competent European Commission, the Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy - it has been sent to Mr Tsironi, Minister, and I hope you will see it - which says about waste that this letter, Mr Tsironi, is a follow-up to the discussions with you, Commissioner Kretsou. It also says: "As you can see, a number of PPP projects have matured, environmental conditions have been approved and, as we have said, it is the government's responsibility to proceed." He's talking about various PPPs from the Peloponnese and Attica. It also says: 'The risk of a waste crisis is high and it is urgent that such an agreement should be concluded by the end of the year'. I put the text in English and Greek and say that you must know that because you are responsible. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a government you can make any decision and I respect it. What are you going to do with this process? To be perfectly honest, firstly, you are changing the rules to PPPs - an innovation from our own government - and that means that every businessman will not trust you from now on in order to enter the public and private partnerships because you change the terms. As far as the companies are concerned. Companies are losing nothing, absolutely nothing, as was the case with underwater. They'll get their money back. And the companies inside will get their money back, and the ones who close their eyes, Mr. Tsironis, will get into new procedures. I would like to say, Mr Skourletis, that you are aware of the decisions of the Court of Auditors. I mean, the companies that exist now will take their money and try to give some people the work. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because it's an environmentalist, Mr. Tsironis, I'm tabling the WWF's annual report that talks about PPPs if it's right and if it's environmental, because it's also the environmental conditions in the design. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Either you don't know the lies, or when we tell you that you're lying, it has no value. Minister Stathakis - and I will testify to you - has signed the assignment - and has been posted on the Internet for the PPPs, the same as I have signed for PPPs a year ago. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what an environment means and you know what fines that now mean - I think Mr Skourletis knows - will pay them not from the Public Investment Programme, not from the NSRF, but citizens? I'm going to give you a typical example in the Municipality of Gortini. The Municipality of Gortynia will pay fines from the European Court of Justice of 280,000 euros in semester, a total of 560,000 euros a year, when its grant is 2,000,000 euros. What does that mean? It means that this will be passed on to the public. So, Mr Skourletis, we are not going to vote on this, but we ask you: do you agree with these conditions? Do you agree and believe that Mr. Chironis plays or doesn't play with interests? Are the public going to pay more money or not? And in the question 'if this PPP contract is not good, what happens?' I will say that you have an obligation to change it for the benefit of the citizens, not to close your eyes in interests. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, on a third point. The PPPs, ladies and gentlemen, also have a role to play. From waste management throughout Greece - but you do not care, as neither Greek nor any other major investment - at least they will come direct and indirect jobs, more than twenty thousand will come. But, ladies and gentlemen, your decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u266	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u267	They're gonna bring in, yeah. They will bring more than twenty thousand jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, as Members of Parliament and as ministers, how do you want the country to move forward? You take responsibility and citizens judge you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u268	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and six teachers from the 15th and 17th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakos has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u269	The bill with measures to speed up government work is a life parallel to your anti-popular wild measures that bleed the people. You're not fooling anyone. It ensures your political profits and aid of billions of euros of people's money for business groups and more poverty and impoverishment for the working class and the populace. Moreover, it could not be different since you are committed to the imperialist organizations and associations that exploit and rob the wealth produced by the worker. And this is largely reflected in the third memorandum which together, the pro-European parties, you have voted and you may pretend to know nothing about the cause of the worsening people's lives that every day bleeds. With a lot of hypocrisy you are showing interest in impoverished people when this policy creates new and even more impoverished popular masses every day. You are setting up decor regions that are suffering from poverty and unemployment that your government policy is exacerbating, such as Perama. You are trying to show proletarian profiles of promising streets and meals in schools, while our amendment has been rejected for the third time. At the same time in Perama, the ship repair zone is bleeding and unemployment is high. You proceeded to the full privatisation of the Port of Piraeus and continue. And yet, school meals should be data. Of course you are propagandaing them when it comes to implementing a new package of hard anti-grassroots measures, such as insurance, tax, a memorandum with Turkey for the collection of Aegean ports and a total destruction of the zone. However, in Perama they have not seen the promising "fish" unless you expect them to be restrained. Many are also the ones who are in the process of mobilisation, not only for the insurance that eliminates what is left in social security, but also for those workers who work are not paid. Really, don't these people lead them to the piles? How do they live? Have you wondered? The eight hundred forty workers in social structures for the immediate treatment of poverty remain unpaid for more than five months. What wages? Hunger, 635 euros, and through slave NGOs. They work in social hospitals, in social grocery stores, in structures serving people who live in hunger and impoverishment conditions and should have permanent and stable work with full wage and insurance rights and not be deprived of even the wages of poverty. However, workers in Creative Employment Centres for Children and Persons with Disabilities remain unpaid for five to ten months. In fact, as they say in a statement from their pan-Hellenic club, they "put back" because they support children and put them above their struggle for a decent living. But, they point out, this should in no way be misinterpreted as weakness or as relaxation. I submit to the minutes their announcement to see what the needs and the crumbs you give are! And if you give them up! [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the greatest mockery is with the amendments you are advertising with courage. You say that Amendment No 209/29 is a provision for OTAs. It is about meeting emergency operational needs of public health structures from grade I and grade II. So we ask you to withdraw this amendment! It is obvious that the aim of cutting costs and eliminating them completely from the state budget in the field of health is to reduce them. This has already started with the state sub-financing of public health units. That is why the enormous shortages in personnel, equipment, materials and medicines that lead to the closure of regional hospitals, departments and clinics, health centres and so on, even here on the islands, in Salamis, in Aegina, in Poros. At the same time, payments for medical operations opened the way for the units as businesses. The traders of pain will be great! These are the European Community guidelines for gradual State releasing from the provision of free and high-level health services, a policy which the 'Kallikras' incorporates. It is not only about municipalities and regions that want to be able to contribute to meeting operational needs, as the government provokes. The LAGs objectively, because they are poor in their finances, cannot finance the health sector both at primary and secondary level. So there will be a lever to expand health units as business - that's what you want, that's what you're pushing! - or they'll put in great fees for the operation of health establishments and the people will pay again! And without reding, going out and saying that by this bill the government will ensure universal health coverage of the population by introducing for the first time regulations for all uninsured persons, abolishing categorisations and bureaucratic obstacles that have been excluded from the public health system for years. You are also saying that it is an important stage in tackling the humanitarian crisis and in supporting the ESS and the social state. You're kidding! You're acting! Because if that were to be the case, why not accept the JRC's amendment to public and free medical, hospital and welfare services, without conditions and conditions, for all those who are uninsured, as well as for the protected members of their families? And it is not absurd, but necessary, when there are one and a half million unemployed, thousands of self-employed, farmers, scientists who are unable to pay insurance contributions. The latest movements of the working class, the farm, the young scientists and other workers in the Syntagma Square show an upsizing that needs to be strengthened and not lured by government proclaiming crumbs. The racing path to satisfy modern popular needs is the most effective solution for brake in the worst and gives perspective for the collapse of your exploitable, inhuman and rotten system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u270	The first group of speakers is finished by the MPs. Now the Minister of Health will take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u271	Six speakers, didn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u272	Six said Mr. Kaklamanis. I said five. Okay, but come on, Mr. Mavroa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing a bill entitled "Accelerating measures of government work" and the content of some fragmentary provisions for hospitals and care, welfare, aiding teaching, Open University and other scorpion arrangements. In my opinion, the government's work should have as a priority how the country begins to produce. If this is the case, the resources will also be found to support weak groups, which are the absent, the great absentees of this bill. Seeing the title would therefore be expected to see measures to facilitate investment, support to small and medium-sized enterprises, modernising the public sector and limiting waste, combating tax evasion, bureaucracy, smuggling, opening up jobs and so on. Instead, as an acceleration of the government’s work, we see a reheated food. Good as intent, but not speeding up. I am not going to say this draft law, but an inception bill. I don't know how many you've seen Christopher Nolan's homonymous movie. In the movie, then, this protagonist – De Caprios plays him -- tried to implant ideas into others’ minds through dreams, dreams confused in other dreams, such as articles confused in other articles. Confused work with an incomprehensible plot. Like the bill that tries to implant his idea that we support the weak. This is necessary, of course, especially when the government's political oppression produces more and more weaknesses to the already enough. First, then, we must produce and then see how we share this, not how we share the despair produced by inappropriateness and oligopoly. In the speech I will deal mainly with the issues of the education of the bill, starting with Article 26 on compensatory education. This institution, of course, has existed since 1982, but it has worked with problems and fragments. And now, however, a sustainable system is not being created. For gymnasiums and high schools it is very general and vague, just a social sensitivity firework: Which students will participate, when lessons will take place, what is the minimum number per class for the existing departments, how a section will be removed in the middle of the year, as it has already started to work and what will be done with the teachers. While for detention centres and treatment agencies the article seems clear and studied and good - do not say that I do not say good words - for high school and high school is so unclear that it creates suspicions of war and rheumatism. It says that staffing will be carried out by permanent teachers or full-time alternates who do not complete the compulsory teaching hours or by temporary substitutes and hours worked or by overtime. On what priority criteria? The assessment of the structures where it is? Why is he missing? Where's the cost? Why is there not in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State? Successful or designed undetermined, so as to create expectations and environment fertile to ruffles? Article 28 refers to the Greek Open University, which has its honours in the government's legislative work. There are provisions for this in two - three bills, in legislative acts and in addition to amendments. First of all, the definition of chaotic legislation, regardless of the content. But let me go to the contents, actually. When the government breaks down its clothes for the self-government of universities, it continues to appoint a Management Committee for the EAW, avoiding the start of the institution-electing procedures. Any designated management committee, in passing, has to decide on many strategic and essential issues of the Open University. I remember SYRIZA getting on the bars for the institution councils that their members are elected there, that they quickly destroy the self-interest of universities. It was, of course, denied to the CEEC. So, now that the governing committees, whose members are all appointed, what are they doing? Aren't they destroying the self-help? Or because we appointed them, are they all right? Unless you identify the self-help with the shackle house. He's dropping the firework to abolish the draw, as if the NSA had the ability of an unlimited number of students. All systems have a finite capacity. Only with SYRIZA is infinite. And while we thought we've seen everything with the legislative work, the government always finds something to surprise us. So we have the world's originality, the same provision to see it in two bills. Why? So we can be sure we voted for her? In particular, the second subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 10 of the original law is amended by paragraph 5(c) of Article 28 of this Law, but also by Article 45 of the Public Administration Act, which ended in committee and will probably come next week in Parliament and concerns the three Vice-Presidents of the PSC. There are also questions about the amendment with the distance-based certification centre, e-learning, which you are recommending to the PSC. Such a centre should, in our view, be of an interuniversity or multiuniversity character, since there are several universities with experience in e-learning platforms and very good ones. Finally, to finish education, the Government is once again dismantling the powers of the institutions. While the current Law 4009/2011 states that the boards of an institution are the bodies responsible for the adoption of the annual regular budget and its amendments, this article only gives the Senate the power to transfer funds from the regular budget to management and capital use companies of the institutions, for cleaning, storage and maintenance funds, so that there is greater flexibility. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment, as a Potami, so that there is also the agreement of the institution board - namely not unreasonable - to find the best solution between flexibility and transparency. The Minister, however, informed me, after consulting the relevant ministers, that this amendment cannot be accepted. Finally, let us say the amendment on special education, on the operation of the accession departments. This amendment creates rather deregulation conditions in school units. That is a good philosophy, but it is being implemented unreservedly. Generally speaking, the picture we have in Potami, in special treatment by the combat teachers is that once again the special treatment structures are being staffed with delay, but also discounts in necessary hours, in departments and support structures. In conclusion, I don't want to be unfair to the government, it's trying. But try not to speed up government work, but slow down social frustration. It is a bill of grandeur, with nice titles, to scratch the emotional strings of society, but with little effect on the daily lives of the citizens. But time runs and is not with us. And it seems that the rabbits are frustrating in the bourgeoisie's hat, like the laughter coming out of the TV 'tsaves'. And as it has been proved in the recent past, oligoria in combination with the failure is not free. He's got an account. 10% of the solidarity levy is now before the gates, from what we hear. And if the plan is to leave all creative and productive forces from the country and only your voters will be left, let me inform you that the plan is going well. The only detail is that there won't be any money in the state funds to play. Gentlemen of collision, speed up. You are, however, really speeding up, not just in the titles. The contributors close dangerously, and you just say fairy tales and share candy with the crew. The famous "parallel program" is, in the end, a parallel hologram of ideas, ideas and good intentions, as if you had only the monopoly of the heart. That's not good enough. It's not enough communication. The ability is needed too. And if on the subject of communication, someone takes your hat off, on the subject of competence, he puts it back on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. I will give Minister Vitsa the floor for a minute for a piece of legislation. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u275	Madam President, this is a legislative improvement. Article 77 in Chapter F, “Department of National Defence” and others that we are discussing, withdrawing and renumbering the other articles. It's about the supervision of the ODA. We're withdrawing it and it's coming in properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u276	The Minister of Health has the floor for eighteen minutes. Minister, do you want two minutes for the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u277	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u278	Then the two parliamentary representatives, Mr Brutsi and Mr Lovers, will be spoken, and the list will be reinitiated. Five or six, we'll see how many they are. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious from the climate of the debate that opposition did not want this bill to be discussed. There was an irritation, and before the holidays, there was the procedural "druff" of the departure, there were real problems. The clarification that has been given to the institutions, and today the government, is able to table a bill for which society at the moment - as long as it can be shown through the'silence weapon' imposed by the systemic media - has a positive expectation from the interventions and the answers it gives. That is why this irritation, which is why the attempt to make criticism of all the material and to harm the credibility of the government. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is true that the political forces and persons who have put their stamp on for a period of four years - five years - in the systematic disorganisation and dismantling of public health - are now talking about 'black papers' and invoke the government for all the sufferings of the National Health System. So that's a broom bill, line-up of amendments, no substance, no content. This is the first reading and the first point of criticism. We believe that every well-meaning man can understand that this bill has as its backbone the universal coverage of uninsured people, a social problem which has been pending for years, for which we have been inhabited by humanitarian organisations, by official international organisations, by UN experts on human rights. There is extensive international literature that demonstrates the negative effects of non-covering uninsured people in public health and health standards of the population. There is a diverse movement of social solidarity that has been developed throughout the country and has shown as a political demand to meet these people's needs. I think, therefore, that it is causing the intelligence of both the citizens and, above all, the uninsured patients, especially those who have serious problems, those for whom the media, the newspaper reports were speaking - and continue to talk these days about insecure cancers that are lacking in treatments, which do not have access to doctors - so that some people come and tell us that this problem has solved it. Two social ministerial decisions, in our view, have indeed been taken completely inadequate, which had bureaucratic obstacles, which had three-member committees, which delayed the approval of hospitalization, which had no concern for the laboratory tests of uninsured people. The problem has not been dealt with, and that is why I think there is a feeling that a very important step is taking. So that's the first and top point. This regulation is a continuation of the intervention for the humanitarian crisis. It is a key element of the SYRIZA election programme, even of the programme - which you are passing through - of the ICU. Of course, this intervention alone cannot solve the problem of serving these people if it is not accompanied by measures to strengthen the functionality and efficiency of the National Health System. And this is the second part of the intervention that this bill makes. They are measures to strengthen public structures, facilitate recruitment, increase incentives for attraction in fertile and island regions, to facilitate young doctors to specialise in the country and to take priority positions from those that will be awarded to the health system. These are interventions to upgrade the operation of several bodies supervised by the Ministry. They are interventions that enhance transparency, e-government, address the phenomenon of corruption and exploitation of the disease in the system. These are measures that strengthen the logic of the patient's rights. I therefore believe that the whole of this is another political project. That is why we consider it to be a very clear political sign of this bill. It is a bill of social relief and social care measures in favour of the weakest. We are told that in this way, in particular with the regulation on uninsured people, we are opening the ferry, making the country a clear vine and we will not be able to withstand the entry of immigrants who are going to, supposedly, medical tourism in the country to deal with their problems. Drawbacks and problems of this type, such as moving from neighbouring Balkan countries to public health services for health services and dealing with health problems, have been very many in recent years. I think, however, that you are wrong to invoke everyone's intelligence by invoking the risk of distortions and side-effects, to cancel a regulation which, above all, is addressed to the weakest, is addressed to people who have lost their insurance capacity in recent years through this huge wave of de-insurance of the population, but also to those who are not in the country and have serious health problems and belong to vulnerable groups of the population, such as pregnant women, such as children, such as mental patients or people with disabilities. I think that every country that wants to be called a European, which respects the values, rights and maps of fundamental human rights in Europe and the whole world must face, despite the difficulty of the situation, the urgent needs of emergency care and the needs of these people's vital health. Also, it's a lie that we're making free medical care for everyone. It is known that this is not the case. We would perhaps like to do so, and this really would be the aim of a well-developed social state in the country. But today, what we are doing is to ensure without hindrances and bureaucratic customs that hospitality is in public hospitals, to cover the laboratory tests in public structures and, as far as medicines are concerned, to allow uninsured people, using AMKA, to take their medicines under the same conditions as the insured. There is another criticism, which says that you cannot make social policy with deficits, but that there must be surpluses to make social policy and to support the social state. That is, ladies and gentlemen, our basic ideological and political difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u280	Then make deficits!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u281	You believe that this crisis is being tackled without intervention that strengthens social cohesion. We must wait, first, for growth to help those who are excluded and marginalised. By then we will also give some voucher for uninsured people, we will also get a NSRF, which will be a safe net, a safety net for the most impoverished, and that is the political response to the poverty of society and the economic and social crisis. On the contrary, we believe in the value of universality and equality. And we believe that - precisely - you must strengthen social intervention in the crisis. And this is a social redistribution mechanism that helps growth. And it helps to get away from the vicious cycle of recession and unemployment. To truly support uninsured people, you must believe ideologically and politically in the equality of people. You consider that inequalities are elements that favour the functioning of the system, competition, entrepreneurship, the market, produce wealth and prosperity. We believe that if there is no care for equality and universality in particular in social goods, then this wealth and prosperity increase inequalities, create social and political discrimination and tensions. We therefore have a framework which has been sufficiently worked out in a huge range of interventions and changes which, of course, have an internal logic. It's the logic of priority in public care. No one can question that. The social partners, who have come and consulted us, have pointed this out and commented positively on this intervention. Today, things are difficult in the health field and no one is stirring up reality. We, too, as political leadership, have never done so. They know the people of public care that this government is doing everything it can. It doesn't have a contract to shrink services and structures. He doesn't have a merging plan and dismantling classes of clinics and labs. He doesn't have a plan of availability and redundancies. It has no plan to disorganise public primary care structures. And it is truly challenging that the inspires and those who voted for Mr.4238 come today and incur us for the really broken primary care in the country. At a time when serious interventions are being made at the moment, we are making a contract with the EEAS with public primary care structures, with health centres and with the structures of the EESC. For the first time, we are transferring - beyond the state funding we have increased it, 38 million this year for primary care - resources from social security and the EEAS, to the public health system. He, dear friends and colleagues, is a social redistribution mechanism. We are redirecting public resources, public insurance resources, public structures. It's an investment in public care. That is why we believe that the coverage of uninsured people, that is, these EUR 100 million, can be fully covered by the EEA grants to hospitals, precisely to strengthen this trend. And after the removal of the EEAS' obligation to cover high-cost medicinal products, the EEAS has the potential to overcome this need, and this will be checked and applied systematically. Obviously, they need reforms and structures. No one doubts that, with simple interventions that strengthen a system which was in a very difficult situation, which was ready in the past year, which had real difficulties by strengthening it, you are solving the problems. Obviously, there is a need for reformal changes and incitements. But these, ladies and gentlemen, to do them, to be credible and toward people of public care, you must be an organic element of public care, to be able to inspire the tired and troubled human resources of the system. And, of course, several of these have been launched - and we will have the opportunity in the next period to present them - and for administrative reform in the field of mental health and in the field of supplies and, of course, for primary care, where it will be a very critical reform section with pilot implementation, with planned steps, with studied moves, precisely so that it does not become an empty letter or any legislation. We therefore have a political plan for health and beyond the memorandum, and that is the particular political interest in this debate. What do you have? Apart from pluralism and verbalism, the rhetoric of state dismantling, of state deprivation, of anxiety, of partisanism, putting a little xenophobic rhetoric, playing a little bit with the conservative reflexes of a society in crisis, what is your political plan for the area of health, for the area of public care? Of course, we can have this debate, Mr Barriotta, on where the health system goes, on what financing we want, if it is Beveridge, whether it will be Bismarck. Today, however, we have specific things to deal with, and our logic is a synergy between the two main points, social security and the state budget, to keep the public system up, to upgrade the benefits to the citizen, to reduce its financial burden. We have therefore brought a bill governed by the principles of universality, equality, solidarity, respect for human rights, the priority of social goods and social redistribution. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the values of the Left. That is why it is a bill that we are proud of as a left-wing government that we bring it today to the vote on by the Greek people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is a bill that highlights the value of the Left in particular in the crisis, in the period of poverty, exclusion and social outcry. It is therefore a bill that signals that in this difficult period that you must balance between the commitments resulting from the agreement, between the need to speed up the evaluation, to have a stabilisation of the economy and a development perspective and a negotiation of the sustainability of the debt and, in particular, the need to maintain social cohesion and social consensus, in it, therefore, the difficult situation, the government with this bill shows that it can really be discriminatory in favour of the weak in that country and face priority deficits and problems of past years, which have today accumulated numerously among the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u282	I would like to draw your attention to some of the facts. There were ninety-six speakers. They have only spoken six, so we have ninety speakers. It's written thirteen Ministers. He's only spoken to one, Mr. Xanthos. We have eight party leaders, eight parliamentary representatives. Time is specific. As much as we divide him, it is obvious that it is not enough to meet all these needs. I wanted, at this stage, to propose limiting the speaking time to seven minutes - I think it is sufficient - since the appeal is always some people who have been covered in giving up and coming back later with others. That's what I'm suggesting. Mr Ioannis Brutsis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u283	Madam President, to cut down, however, respectively and accordingly, their time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u284	Because we are in favour of equality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u285	Madam President, please zero the time. Mr. Voridis, don't eat my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u286	After you. This has not been approved by Parliament yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u287	Here you go, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, the worst time for a government is the moment that whatever it says, whatever it does, it doesn't believe it and nobody listens to it. It is exactly what SYRIZA lives and experiences today and it is a matter of time now of the complete collapse of the SYRIZA. But let us look at the growth of the image in contrast to the good image presented by the Minister for Health. Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling the Report of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue on the evolution and variation of tax revenues in the Minutes. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned Report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's really a shocking element. It concerns all of us, the Greek society. In 2015 with this great tax raid of SYRIZA, all with small, weak, pensioners, compared with 2014, tax revenues were EUR 600 million less. The state's report says so. That has to be our concern. Let us now go a little bit to political reality. Political reality shows the image yesterday from Crete, farmers - it is something that New Democracy does not agree with, but let's see the essence - to covet, in the form they did, MP of SYRIZA and - I will stay on it - to say to him: "You were spinning by car and saying not to pay the ENPI". That was SYRIZA's policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u289	Convict it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u290	I have, of course, condemned it, but I do not condemn the other one, which is shameful, that you have undermined the national effort, and the farmers of Crete and all the Greeks are saying it today, when you were returning to war against the country itself. I should also like to go to another where the ministers, while having more than a hundred dead, Minister, in the units of intensive treatment with the flu virus, hide, fear, invoke a workload and sit in the cafes of this House, and cannot answer parliamentary questions from the Centroon Union, from Potami, from PASOK. This is a sample of diffusion. And go to the most basics. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which comes - and I am addressing the Greek people, because tomorrow I can imagine Mr Tsipras' image from this step, triumphing for the big left-wing policies, sensitive legislative initiatives - does not include within neither the thirteenth pension, it does not include the abolition of the HPAI, nor the non-payment of the toll, nor abolishes the solidarity levy, nor increases employment, nor increases the minimum wage, nor does it bring the seismicism that you promised. Quite simply, I will call it another handful of gonatograms, a monument of populism and prove it in the next few minutes, through what it includes. It is another handful construction of SYRIZA's legislative initiative, which comes to legislate, legislate sensitive, legislate good intentions, without money. And I'm explaining. You want us to talk about the sensitive social state and how it should be conducted politically. Sure. The right to be more sensitive than the other parties gives you no one. We believe that we serve real sensitivity and solidarity and are close to the people more than SYRIZA. For you are moving into a logic "to find something to share, to hold on, to become in power and to make the great proclamation that we are good". That is not the case with social policy. Social policy is conducted with wealth creation and after you have created wealth, you can give, cover and defend the weak. That's what we did. We, Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the two and a half years, in a difficult financial situation - which you have taken much better than we have inherited, as you inherited it, regardless of whether you have broken it all down and taken the economy and the country back years - have created the A21, 755 million euros for the families of all Greeks and have given the first and second children. We, the New Democracy government, then co-government, covered five hundred thousand weak families. You know what you were saying? You said it was crumbs. And now you can't cover the crumbs either. We, with the surplus of the economy, households, development, surplus, provided 450 million euros from the social dividend, from the sacrifices of the Greek people, and helped real families. What did you do? You said "fly" of 459 million, we have the SYRIZA proclamation for 2 billion euros in Thessaloniki, you legislate the great revolution, the coverage of the humanitarian crisis, only 200 million euros. We voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u291	Provided, ‘if’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u292	Assuming 200 million. You have been looking for equivalents, Mr Fotio - which you are looking at me - and ended up at EUR 98 million. This is the treatment of the humanitarian crisis of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, the deception of the Greek people. So here is who is truly sensitive and who supports the weak and the vulnerable. And I now come to the cherry cake, which is about the policy and the future that the Minister asks. Answer me. There is no greater social reform in Greece than the ministerial decision and the law, which I have had the honour of signing with Vassilis Kegeroglou at the Ministry, for the minimum guaranteed income. We are the only country in Europe that we did not have. And we built the best social protection system, the most advanced in Europe, and you froze it. And the troika pressed you and you bring it to take it after a year and a half! This is SYRIZA's social policy. Instead of applying the minimum guaranteed income, to cover the weak, those who really need it, you do squeeze social policy, micro-political games. But you've been taken by the Greek people. And that's why you're privatising. Not because the account of SYRIZA and fraud fell in the Greek taxpayer's pocket, but because he just feels deceived, as the farmers of Crete told you yesterday. That's what it pays in public today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u293	Quiet. Please! Calm down a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u294	I'm on my way. I'm going a little bit to the point of the bill. Let's take a look at the substance of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak about the bill's arithmetic. Firstly, the bill together with the amendments - I would ask you to listen to me by all the Members carefully and by the Greek people - includes a total of 91 articles. Of the 91 articles costed, it is only 20 with an expense of 111.050.000 euros. Question One: Where will the EUR 111.050,000 be covered? Tell us the equivalents. Have you put it in the budget? We gave you order in the state and in the economy, a housewive state. We brought one to one expenditure documented. So where are you going to get the EUR 111,050,000? Secondly, and if we say that you found them, the other 70 articles from which they will be covered, these costs that come with the Accounting Report and are not documented, quantifiable, quantifiable, why did the Accounting Officers not receive any information? This is a third world country. It's not a democratic country, gentlemen of the government, who wants to put order. I'm on my way. What else does the bill contain? Hundreds of ‘no’ appointments. This is the parallel program, friends and "neutrals". Will anyone ask where? So I answer. Take the bill in front of you and read. Article 4 creates new structures for the municipalities that need new recruitment. With Article 5, you create eleven appointments next to Mr. Kourublis, the dowry of Mr. Kourublis. Where and where? In Article seven, we have new recruitments. In Article 8, we have new recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u295	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u296	Article 8. Read it. I won't do anything to you. Read it. With Article 24 you create seven new posts in the General Secretariats and in the Regions. With Article 25, you are creating groups of jobs that are unpaid. With Article 29, you appoint lawyers to the Ministry of Health. And I get to the cherry pot in the cake. There's the cherry on the cake. This will be abolished the next day, Minister. You will not turn the state into what you had in your dreams or read in the literature when you were a student and dreamed of keeping Greece out of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u297	How do you know what I was reading when I was a student?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u298	You are setting up local committees within hospitals that replace the administration, change the status of the administration, and people are now coming that Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis will appoint from society to solve the problems of hospitals. This is where you'll appoint dozens. Costs are non-calculable. The Accounting Office couldn't find the cost. And this is to know that it will be one of the first to be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u299	Unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u300	It does not say 'unpaid' at all. The Accounting Office has quantified that it has no evidence to see how much it costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u301	They don't cost it, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u302	They're unpaid. It expressly says it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u303	Please, be quiet. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u304	Hang in there. I know they don't like what I'm saying. But it needs a little temper. Have a temper. I now come to the issues that concern the bill. I'll talk about my territory, Santorini. Ladies and gentlemen, what is going on here? I said to the committee - and now the New Democracy will do so - that we will vote on this provision with both hands. Be careful, however, I had asked to come here to plenary, first of all, a timetable for the implementation of the hospital. Secondly, to tell us about the funding from which the EUR 5 million will be available, and thirdly, there will be a timetable and an establishment plan. None of this has come. We'll vote for it. You are accountable, however, for the people of Santorini who have deceived him for a whole year, such as the 'Sea Diamond' that you would raise, you have taken his vote today and you promise him a hospital. In other words, all public health collapses in all hospitals and you go to make a new secondary health structure in Santorini. We're supporting it. Be careful, however, time is relentless. You've lost trust. Secondly, we have the amendment for OTAs and hospitals. Where did you get that? Who gives you the right today to destroy a logic that existed in the state? The responsibility for financing hospitals and health is for the central state to have it. But you're coming, Minister, and what are you doing? You did not read the announcement unanimously from all the municipalities and the Medical Association of Athens, who react and say that it does not go through the provision, because it opens up the ferry - we are heard by the mayors and the municipal councils at the moment - and in a short time the next step in the vote of the bill will be for residents to go through social automation to the municipalities and to seek better conditions and conditions for hospitals and health centres. That's what you're doing. I now come to the last point, which concerns the diagnosis of working needs. Indeed, it's an incision. I welcome that, even with a delay of one and a half years, you bring it back. I have in front of me the newspaper page on which I made the announcement of the great intersection for the diagnosis of needs for work. In the sense that it is one of the most innovative systems in Europe, because we have ERGANI. So this system was announced by me in September 2014. It went on, the funding was from the European Union and I now read in the budget that it is 300,000 euros. From where and why? I am presenting in the Minutes and the announcement of the needs for a diagnosis of work without the Greek State's money, which you now put EUR 300,000. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Aren't you worried, gentlemen of SYRIZA? I'm closing up with the last issue to cover the uninsured. I have here and will testify, because I was provoked by the Minister to the committee, the following: First, the FEK sheet number 175328/2014. They're signing Staruras, Borides, Brutsi. It is the FEK on the basis of which the previous government provides full free medical care to all insurers in the country. I will put it before the SYRIZA Members and the Minister who ignores it. Secondly, I am tabling the other FEK which is coming in complement. Signature Georgiadis Adonis, Stakoras, Brutsis. It's the second ministerial decision for the same reason. Thirdly, I am tabling the budget document for the EUR 20 million of the Ministry of Labour that we have given for the insurers in the specific EDFs, OGAs and OAUs. Fourthly, I table Law No 4254, a law that covered the previous decision. I am also tabling the ministerial decision on the previous funds. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In short, the cover decision existed, Minister. You have entered into a logic at the beginning of your policy, that of baptism. You were baptizing with various left ideologies the various things you found ready or renamed. Then you entered his logic 'I am voting - I am voting'. You have voted for your own laws here, and now you are entering into the logic of "I'm already voting for laws". That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u305	Finish it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u306	Just before I get off the Step and that's what I'm gonna close, a good-for-nothing warning. We're all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u307	Don't make fun of the world! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u308	I filed the papers, Minister. Now you say in public what you want. Listen to a good warning. We will not grant you the right to sensitivity. We're as sensitive to everyone. But at the time when public health collapses, while currently there are no beds in hospitals and intensive care units, you are extending our law and making a public call, as you said in committee. 'We give a signal', you said, which the President said a year and a half ago, and we are still paying for it. We give a signal all over the world that Greece is a country that can treat anyone who comes. That's what you told the committee. Be careful because you have responsibilities. Legislation now with our legislation is likely to affect the Greeks, whom you must respect first and foremost, because the Greeks are taxed, the Greeks pay, the Greeks are tested, the Greeks suffer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Brutsi, come on, you've reached seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u310	And the Greeks have given humanity and solidarity and they do well. And we hug the whole world, but everything has to have a limit. Because legislating without money is like undermining and cutting the branch of national pride and effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u311	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Xanthi, what do you want me to answer Mr. Brutsi now? Everyone says what they think. We're supposed to think the viewers have knowledge. If you want a minute to say something, but you did not say about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u313	I'll say later. First of all, we have made a legislative improvement for some articles, we will give them to you, we will table them, and I will also present the amendments a little more thoroughly afterwards, because I have still to deal with them. I would just like to give a brief answer. We've said too many times, Mr. Brutsi, that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u314	Is that possible, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u315	What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u316	So, shall I answer later, Madam President? After the Minister's answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u317	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u318	I realized that he wants to say personal things, otherwise he's obviously not going to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u319	He didn't ask for staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u320	Let me reply later, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u321	I'll be brief, Mr. Brutsi. We have said many times that the issue of social sensitivity is not a personal issue, it is a political issue. It's not about being good people and socially sensitive. It's a matter of political understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u322	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u323	It's a matter of policy priorities. That is what I have tried to say in my speech, but you do not understand that, because precisely cosmopolitan, ideologically and politically, we are with people's equality, and that is why we can today defend universality, especially in the field of health. Be very careful. The anti-government rhetoric is good, it is good to play, to stumble in the polls, with people's xenophobic reflexes at this time, but be careful because you are plunging the line "health only for Greeks". This is the line, the political position of the Golden Dawn. Take very good care! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In this society, in this European country, such walls cannot be erected against people who are unhappy not coming to the country to take a walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u324	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u325	The theory that immigrants, the biggest refugee wave after the Second World War that engulfs all over Europe, is that SYRIZA facilitates the care of the uninsured, sorry, but offends the intelligence of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u327	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u328	What can you answer now, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u329	Madam President, I was challenged by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u330	What's the point now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u331	Madam President, I understand the weak point the Minister finds. He is the Minister of a collapsed health, he is the Minister of Health who cannot guarantee anything the next day and is a member of a government that is also falling apart. And it breaks down, first and foremost, as I said, from the lies he's told. But, Minister, what you're doing is a big mistake. You identify the New Democracy with the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u332	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u333	That's what I get. Even the word "slip" you used...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u334	You're dispersing, I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u335	‘Preparate’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u336	...the perception...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u337	Understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u338	...the argument on the agenda. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u339	Listen to see where we're different. The humanity, solidarity and sensitivity of the New Democracy are not granted, it is something that is guaranteed and knows all of the world. I have said in economic terms how we mean it. But I say what I said to you: that the Greeks are currently in a very unpleasant and difficult position, they pay taxes, they pay contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u340	Extraordinary contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u341	At the moment Greece is facing national dangers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u342	Mr. Brutsi, you have said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u343	Don't treat them as a second-class citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u344	Is it a second class?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u345	As a second-class citizen. If you want to pursue a social policy for the whole world, your right to it, but you also find the money, not to the detriment of the Greeks, and since we say that we must of course show sensitivity everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u346	I will annex your speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u347	Come on, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u348	You insist. It's the turn toward the center, the speech you're making now. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u349	You'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u350	Don't worry. Patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u352	Mr Secretary of State for Health, since on the issues we are discussing you needed an argument for assistance and support for the Golden Dawn, we are the ones where we heard the first thing we thought about is that if there is one from this room who lived together in the same places as the Golden Dawn, you and the ANELs, no one else from here. We do not need these arguments. They don't help anyone or you or anyone from here. Now, we have heard you and, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a version of the government's communication arguments and this majority. The arguments tell the citizens and internally that the people on 20 September knew what they were voting for. "Don't complain, you knew what you were voting for." And to politicians in the area who are threatening to differentiate in the ar or the breeze, the threat posed by the Maximos Mansion is that everything was known. These are the arguments of one form. It is the other form of argument that has been heard here today that, here, we can verify what we have said about the good of the world how our policy is moving. Let me just say a little bit about the first arguments. They do not stand because the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the candidates of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL before 20 September - said that this is an inappropriate third memorandum, but we will negotiate to ensure that it does not apply as it stands, we have a parallel support programme. That's what they said. Everything they said since September 21st, and then people see it every day and in the tower they feel it. It does not have theoretical discussions or analyses like these last ones here on ideological political references or on the pain with which you vote an unfavourable measure. Like others who voted for unfavourable measures, they had pleasure and pleasure, because they are vicious, so. Now, the second argument: 'We are doing good'. There's good. In contrast, the second support with the first support of communication arguments. Let's get the parallel program. We are bringing the parallel program, i.e. we are breaking open doors. And some of the things you are introducing today can also be positive, and when you settle down in the final wording, we will be placed tomorrow, and Mrs Christophilopoulos and I too will be. But when you break down, because every ten minutes you bring some changes, all the ministers, not just you. So the second arguments for the parallel programme should have created, ladies and gentlemen, a social impact, even small, that the House is doing now. I don't see him. Perhaps the small spaces, the specific ones, the experts for some detail that makes life easier for them to say a good word. Political and social impacts are not born, because they are all politically non-existent. The 200 million for hospitals is a hypothetical reason: they will be given if the potential arises. The fact that they signed the budget, you are a Minister for a year and something and you know it well that it means absolutely nothing. And one example, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to uninsured expenditure: When I took over the Ministry in 2010 a first record of the approach was that, for uninsured foreigners, basically, the National Health System was then spending 150 million euros. When you do something that has an impact on reality, that's what it'll look like. And if you want it to have an impact on the reality, on some categories of people who are undignified, you would have shown it a year. Not only did you not show it, but your predecessor made eight months to sign and finally did not sign the new invoicing of drugs. He has responsibility for what he's done. He's got responsibilities. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Don't look at the kind of opposition we're exercising is not like yours and these things we're going through loose. I'm telling you he has responsibility for what he didn't do! You deceived the people on too many issues. Even in foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, because I know some of the healthy consciences - you were a force that was professing to leave NATO. And now you have become a naval force, a pro-NATO political force. With pain, you'll tell me! You're necessarily going to tell me. But you've become! You're completely inconsistent. Second-class argument, when some tell you "we, my child, these conversations are represented every day in both Parliament and outside Parliament". Now that you are being beaten by the world, we strongly and explicitly condemn, without reservations, without any footnotes and without any other references. But some people are asking you - when for five years when you were stumbling your predecessors, you were talking about social protests, which, at the end of the day, you condemned, if you were pushing too much parliament, or the representative of your party - now what is happening. What happens now that three times you have lied to the Greek people and January 2015 and September 2015 and with the referendum and the world is now protesting against you? Of course, when it comes to pre-compensation, we denounce them and condemn them. That's not supposed to happen, because it's not helping. Now, what do you have to tell the world about that practice of yours? Of course you have invented an argument that goes beyond what is serious: E, you say, there have indeed been some excesses. So you're covered with that phrase? For those who know it, you remind me of the rabbit and tiger joke. Were the preconcussions overcrowded? Was the farce fax that you left your offices for mobilizations where government ministers have been speaking for four years? Are you saying too much of what you promised, the thirteenth pension and the operation of hospitals, as the current ministers say, and then protesters, who have already broken them? Was that too much? Was it an exaggeration that in everything that was said, it was all backwards and wrong, all suspicious, all subtle and all done by some who wanted the evil of the people? So, what's going on now? And not to mention the deception programme, see the Thessaloniki programme! We should not call it the Thessaloniki programme. A deception programme to say it, ladies and gentlemen, because we have nothing to do with the city. Just that deception program of September 2014 was set up at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition! So now, what do you have to say to this world? That you respond to this draft law, setting up a parallel program? Mr. Secretary of Health, I heard you. I've never heard of a more historical reason than yours! A - Historical reason, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason he articulates with space and time, with all messages and ideological references, but with regard to the real dimensions of problems, nothing! Nothing, but nothing! All separations with false separating lines for what used to be happening and which are supposedly not taking place today, because the perfect things are now, the very good things, trying to solve problems. What problems are being solved, with the current situation in hospitals and in general in all areas where the public health system operates? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise one point which I said at the beginning of my speech, namely that for the provisions we shall be voting on, we are waiting for the final wording. Because I say again that these wordings are constantly changing. Therefore, there is no point in preventing a positive crisis for something that has not yet been completed. So my speech as a parliamentary representative will go on to some issues of general political interest which are of great importance. In the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs about fifteen days ago we heard the Minister for Finance say that the negotiation must be closed, the evaluation, because if we arrive in May, we live in a fire. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing a paradoxical policy which does not end up anywhere and on any subject. The House has also been shaken with the so-called drafts of insurance, of which about nothing has been left. The changes in guidelines are rapid and concern you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because you were elected MPs, saying that you will not cut supplementary and basic pensions. Now the ancillarys are on the table and the gentlemen are on the table. Now on this subject, which you have also convened in a special session on insurance and said things that have been removed in the course, what are you going to say? Now what are you telling us? What assessment will be completed with an insurance we still do not know where it is? What assessment will be completed with a tax which we do not know at what point? You fill Parliament with a historic reason, outside time and space, with arguments which serve only your ideological political references, but in practice it is the opposite and, in fact, not even the opposite. The big issues have not gone ahead. What if in May, "live we burned," in April, is it better? March? The economy, the national economy, which is the product of public finances, but basically of the private economy, how will it proceed? If you were private, if you were private sector people and you had half the euro, would you deposit it on the market or would you expect to see a smoother course of things? The second one you'd do, and that's how the whole market does. And at the same time, they're leaving. How are you going to save insurance systems? With this logic every year, you will need cuts that will be baptized in insurance. You're here and you say this and a million people in the public sector are all over Greece on the road against you. The people in the public sector who work in the social sector have recently come out, too, to those who pursue social policy, who are supposed to carry out your own social policies, and you are not paying for them either. And you laugh and you iron and you covet and talk. You're not right. You don't have the truth on your side. In order to close my political references and get to the Step, waiting for the final wording of the provisions, you are not telling me, is it possible to operate the private economy beyond what we have said so far, without limitation or, as I believe, withholding bureaucracy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And if that is correct, restricting bureaucracy - which I do not believe anyone here would deny - can be served by a government that has ministers who, ladies and gentlemen, from this step forward, said a few days ago that the media are being self-sufficient? Who do they seize from? Who should they be dependent on? Is this a government, which has ministers for bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u353	Are you lying again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u354	Mr Loverdo, please finish because you are the only Members of Parliament, with the rapporteurs, who will speak tomorrow. All the other ninety-five Members will not speak. And please, and because you're already out of the question, just hang up in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, I'm on a subject and I've closed my argument...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u356	You said yourself four minutes ago that you don't care any more...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u357	I'm finishing up my speech. You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u358	...with the bill, exactly about the reservations you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u359	You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u360	And now you are dealing with other issues of topicality. You have every right. Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u361	Look, I have every right to the Rules of Procedure and you know it well...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u362	And I'm telling you, so don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u363	I've been finishing my speech and interrupting me. The previous parliamentary representative, well, spoke for seventeen minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u364	It was good. I don't know. Now I'm in the Chair, and the process needs to be kept. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u365	I don't accept the interruption you've made. Please let me finish, and I wonder why you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u366	Do you wonder?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u367	I wonder why you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u368	By 02:00 they'll have spoken seventy. And there are ninety-five speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u369	You are not fair, Mr President, when you do what you are doing now. I was completing my speech. And to the extent that the provisions are constantly being changed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u370	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u371	Mrs Christophilopoulou, let me leave the " mercy" best for elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u372	No, you leave them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u373	Leave them for elsewhere, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u374	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u375	Please beg as much as you please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u376	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u377	Mr. President, what's the matter with you? You are obliged to show the equilibrium that creates balance in this House. I was completing my speech. I have said three times, taking away time from it, that we are constantly making provisions and keeping up to their final wording, and that is why, instead of talking about them, I raised issues of great concern, in our opinion, which are currently of interest to the Greek society and I have closed down. Please. So I say, ladies and gentlemen, that in order for the private economy to function, there must be a reduction in bureaucracy. We're all talking about it. I mentioned an example of a poorly understood concept of the state in terms of the area of state, and I would like to mention a second - and this is what I should like to close - that has brought the whole society across. We have listened with surprise today to the Minister of Public Order and Citizens' Protection speaking in a way absolutely derogatory, which betrays thoughts, thoughts that should not cover us, and they certainly do not cover us. For Mr. Sfakianakis, from the Electronic Crime Crisis, he said that instead of operating for the service, with an average projection of the service, he projected himself! But - be careful - despite what he decided, now proving how firm his decision was, to kick him out and take him to an administrative agency, with the intervention of others he holds him on the subject, but at the side. And he says quite clearly why he did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Loverdo, please be done. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u379	What did he do it for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Loverdo, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u381	In this way everything that stands out positive, you cut his head off. But in this way, Mr President - and I am closing down with this - the public cannot function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u382	Your children are defending you. What you've shaped for so many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u384	It cannot be done what the Greek citizen needs. And, ladies and gentlemen, because you vote, make it clear to you what is what you are finally voting on. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, for your kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u386	Why, Mr. Fotio? He didn't refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u387	I mean, there's no equivalence inside the Chamber. I protest on personal grounds, because whenever I have spoken, I have kept time and you have downloaded me down. Mr. Loverdos is always misusing time, and this is unlikely inequality in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u388	Excuse me, but is the government talking about how this House operates? Will he tell us what to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u389	Calm down now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, please, I should like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u391	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u392	Thank you. I would like to withdraw from the legislative improvements that we have tabled on Article 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u393	Me, too. Mrs Theodora's speech is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a new Member of Parliament. Before I became a congressman, I watched Parliament's meetings or panel shows, and then I had the right to laugh, smile. Now that I'm in this House, I'm sorry to tell you I'm crying. And I'd rather see the ridiculous thing, the irrational one. I sincerely cry because I also represent the House and close to the dry, and the greens are burning, and I am not to blame, for being a new Member. Anyway, we're going to move on to the parallel program, which you called at the same time to rebuild, give it a different time. My grandmother used to say, "Give me the candy." I told her, "Grandma, what is that?" And he answered "the vinegar". So, not to say things by their name, we're doing a great job. A few days ago we voted in committee on the European Social Charter, which was not adopted by the other governments so long. And when we read it and agreed to vote, because we would be punished by the European Union, which we had not voted on, I say 'children, if we apply it in Greece, we will be very well. There will be no Memorandum. Why do we vote for it? "To make fun of ourselves?" I ask you, Ministers. In fact, in this case, one of your ministers, Mr Sguridis, accidentally, is why the truth always comes out of our mouths and we want to hide it - he told the truth and you immediately cared about it. You've kept nothing else, not even the pretexts. He just told the truth. As regards taxation, I think that as a simple citizen - not as a Member - we should dedicate to you the song 'A little wine, a little sea and my boy'! My boy has taxed it until he can't afford it, the wine has taxed it, now tax the sea we're going to swim! That's what's left of you. Now let's catch one, one of the articles. With regard to Article 56 - where we are talking about health for all - I would like to say that it is very nice to have health coverage for all, insured and insecure, and to have this right of every citizen, because the difficult period that we are going through now absolutely needs security and care. But I asked you last time, Minister, this. You have given us a budget of EUR 100,000 by saying that it will cover this free treatment for all, for the Greeks, for the right-wing refugees, for immigrants, whether legal or illegal, who, until they are deported, become the administrative court, spend five to six years. So I asked you: can you tell us the cost of this programme and what Greek taxpayer will be able to pay for it? You haven't answered me so far, because you can't answer it. Because you do not know how many people you will care for, how many uninsured people and those who still pay for their safety - rightly so - will say 'we are suckers'. Why should we pay them? Let's stop, too. In any case, we are being cured. In other words, one will be the "smart" and the other will be the "shadow", so it stops the Greek as well. Then they will come from Europe, which can come from Bulgaria, from Albania, Romania, to do fine - their tests will have their care and we will pay for them! So we've taken out a social person very nice. I think UNESCO is also jealous of us right now. We're something unreal. Here we will treat the whole world: poor, sick, whatever sex, color. We don't have a problem. We have to pay! You told me in committee that there was money and I told you that I had heard this line before. I, as a Member of Parliament, want you to tell me exactly how much this cost for free care will be, so that people know how much the right people will pay for it. As far as ambulances are concerned, you have brought an amendment and said that we cannot pay ambulance drivers at the health centers in the region and that they will be led by firefighters or OTA employees and you will do a seminar to get them to know first aid. That's good, that's good. Can you tell me, Minister, this? When I get sick in Kythera, 30 km away from the hospital, will they notify the fire department, which is 30 km away, to get the fire extinguisher to come with the manica to bring me to the hospital? You should then establish to offer their services on a 24-hour basis, whether firefighters or OTA, exist in the health center and be ready at any time as soon as a call is given to pick up the patients and not call them in the fire department and tell them to take the ambulance to the patient. By then the patient will have seen the Most High! It could be night, so he could have eaten, had drunk alcohol. So, take him to his house, pick him up from his bed and say, "Come on, get the ambulance"? He won't. So this amendment needs to be changed. You have to make them exist and have their services 24/7. Every week - if you want it like this - always in the health center. As far as the O.R. list is concerned, I want to say this: Apparently there are many patients, there must be an O.R. list and they should be served. Article 82 states that there will be a list and that urgent cases will be excluded. Who will ensure that this is indeed an emergency surgery and will ensure that there is no doctor who has broken Hippocrates' oath and - to tell you more simply - if he gets his "file", he will put it in an emergency? If you don't want this to happen, to make sure that what you're saying is true, that there's a doctor, the chief of surgery, or two other doctors, to sign that this is urgent and if it turns out that it wasn't urgent, and it was exceptionally, why did it pass the 'file', have apart from the administrative responsibilities - which have administrative, but are paid - criminal responsibilities, to see: Will no doctor then sign up for it if it's urgent? With regard to the article on third-country families, Article 30, by law had a 2% subsidy on the positions of the public. Now you're putting it together with n. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry. These belong to 2/8, then go to APD. etc. You are now getting the tritecs against laundry, i.e. you are patting them again. Children are a kind of luxury, they are 'cars'. You're teasing them and making them have a lower quota than third parties. In fact, I am tabling the letter from the Supreme Confederation of Greek Polytexts, which analyses them for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u395	Please close your speech. You've been over eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u396	I don't have time to talk about the other issues. The other Members will speak. What is presented as a parallel programme is only a 'caramella' so that you can appease the opposition world a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u397	Thank you very much, Mr. Big Housekeeper. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much, Mr President. I speak after many years in the Greek Parliament as an Independent MEP. I would like to assure you, however, that the majority of my speeches for many years have been independent, which is why I want to touch on five issues of topicality today and say: Nisafi now, Mr President! You have an institutional role. Take care of him. Farmers have their own, the government is having a difficult time, but it must definitely find a solution. The government at the moment has all responsibility. So we need to figure out how to find the 'golden section' between these requests made by farmers and what this country can give them. I, however, would find ten ways. Don't ask me. You're the government. Find the ways to smooth things down to work out the state. Secondly, the bill is positive. It's not all positive, it's also positive. The fact that Greek citizens can go to hospitals and be nursed while uninsured is a large section. We had made an effort in the past few years. We had found huge difficulties. They went through committees. You should, however, preserve this, see how you implement it, because things are very difficult. In the public sector, the work in hospitals has increased. I don't know if you can handle it. On the subject of intensive care units, I must criticise you. You should be alerter. The flu reapes. You are now going to March, in April, to pick up these people from CEDEFOP. It will always be useful, but I think you're late. The theme of 'Dynan' is wrong, Mr. Minister. Wrongly, the 'Dynn', as is the 'Oncesus'. At the "Onceso" you say "hello, let me do it", since there was an elementary committee in the recruitment of doctors. In 'Dynnan', ladies and gentlemen, there was no assessment committee for doctors. Doctors have never been evaluated, but we know how they were hired and whether they were hired. I do not want to be sad, nor to offend anyone, but they did not go through any committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u399	Same logic as the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u400	And the CDC. Of course, everything. When we talk about evaluation, my dear colleague, we're talking about evaluation. And it's one of the elements we need to discuss in the Greek Parliament sometime. We should have done that too. We're talking about evaluation. There's got to be an evaluation. In particular, there must be an assessment of all hospital services: evaluation of hospital presidents, hospital managers, nursing service, doctors, all. We all have to evaluate ourselves in life. Time's up. It doesn't take us at all. If you want to be reformers and do something positive, you must finally eliminate this ideological position that the public sector should not be assessed. We're all rated every day. And now that we're all talking here, we're rated. I would like to refer to three points. This particular government 12 months now has done an incalculable damage to the country. We met with one foot outside the eurozone. The economy has been devastated. The banks are closed. See Varoufakis. The risk of closing our borders these days is real, although today I have seen in the European Union that there is significant support. I wish this would never happen. Citizens are protesting. Everyone's on the streets. The ‘ tie movement’ exists. It'll be valued in a while. That's what we used to say when we were government: we'll see, we'll change them, we'll come back. The river when it gets a flow doesn't come back. Information needs a lot of attention. Be careful not to blame for manipulating it. For Mr Vernardakis, I shall speak by name. Your co-government will remain in history as a memorial of partyism, incompetence, inadequacy and amateurism - I am saying it is heavy - because the main characteristic of this government is the schizoid incomprehensible policy that follows. I will give three examples. The Prime Minister talks with his Chinese counterpart. The Minister of Shipping comes out and for the concession of the port to 'COSCO' publicly states that there is no agreement between Greece and China. The Prime Minister has made other agreements. The fourteen regional airports are granted, and the Minister for Infrastructure is running everything for the completion of the procedures. The Prime Minister turns on the "green light" for the concession of the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos", the President you have placed - an old, good friend - and says "I refuse to implement this decision". These examples of what they say? So government policy is incomprehensible. This government has an unprecedented paradox. He wants to hold the helm of power, but at the same time also to behave as an opposition. She's unable to assimilate her role. He is fond of the opposition tactic in which he has actually demonstrated particular abilities in previous years. In the opposition, SYRIZA was really very good. But as a government it cannot respond to the needs of the country. Responsibilities shall be waived. You as parliamentarians cannot go to your provinces at all, which is why this weekend was held. I was once in Crete alone. They only allowed me to enter the hospital. The main ministers can't go to the province's hospitals. This government is cultivating a dangerous, obsolete tactic of intolerance in order to undermine conflicts between the various social groups. He fights hard for economic and business interests, does not want them at all, but at the same time calls for consensus and consultation with those interests! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. To conclude: this government seriously harms health, citizens and society. If Mr Tsipras cannot respond to his duties, there are legal procedures through Parliament to find a solution. Finally, I want to deal with Mr Vernadakis. From my university years, I like to watch what's happening on the left. I've always tried to locate the ideological guides he had at all times. And that's because the Left had undeniably people and persons who stood out for their morality, for their ideas, for their searches, for their concerns, for their insight. But for some time not only have I seen Mr Vernardakis but also many other people who have come to your space introduce themselves as political and ideological instronomical instators have reviewed my views. His recent statement that it is a pathetic democracy, the separatism of the media, has caused me shock. And I was shocked, ladies and gentlemen, because we are a small country and we know each other. We know each other very well. And because I also have a certain course in this particular area, and I am 62 years old I remember many things from the daily life of PASOK in the 1990s. And I remember many of us where they were, how they were working, what they did, who they worked with who they did. So, Mr. Vernardakis, if he slowly discovered the leadership of the radical left and its charm, he should be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Gregoraco, please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u402	Let me remind you that he was one of Mr. Aki Tsohatzopoulou's great supporters when we fought for the Simitis. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u403	I'm afraid there may have been a mistake, Mr. Gregorakos, but Mr. Bernardakis will...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u404	You should ask the Minister for Defense all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u405	You're welcome, Mr. Gregoraco. Everyone's got a ride.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u406	Now, we're throwing mud into the fan. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u407	When he had the polling company...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Gregoraco, please. Other than polling companies, including media or newspapers, and participations there and that this has anything to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u409	That's my complaint, check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u410	But for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u411	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u412	Check what? Are you making a complication complaint?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u413	I'm not making a complaint. That's the reality. I am making a statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u414	Wait a minute. Or a complaint or a finding. If you make a complaint about a complication through the Minister's business, please tell her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u415	Each of us should know what he says first and then come here to make us the intestine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u416	However, we know perfectly well - I am telling you right - that Mr Vernardakis has been on a specific route since his student years. He didn't have much zig-zag. Alas. What else can I tell you now? Thank you. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at times like this, like the one we are discussing today, I feel justified - at least personally - for making my own choices in the last few years and in the summer by supporting the government in this difficult agreement and in September in the elections, putting candidates on the SYRIZA ballots. It's moments we're saying, well we're doing and we're not leaving the street open to those responsible for what we're going through today. Ladies and gentlemen, can all citizens and those who are uninsured object to access to health? And we know how they came to be uninsured. And we know how many they are. And thankfully today - and without voting on the bill - that there are people. Fortunately, some people keep it and do what they have to do without the law. We know, Minister, that immigrants, refugees with a problem, are being treated in our hospitals right now. We're not waiting for the law. I say this for those who fear various dangers. And how is it possible for a young child who arrives in Piraeus and dies not to take him to the hospital? And I witnessed such incidents. On the other hand, however, I witnessed another episode: Little child of a father who was not insured, who had not paid the TEBE, not to take it to the hospital and get rid of it, because the father was uninsured. That's all! Even that's why he deserves a left-wing government! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Who objects to doctors being motivated to come to the islands? We know the problems on the islands. In Kos of forty thousand inhabitants and one and a half million arrivals for seven years we had no pediatrician. For the first time these days, a pediatrician went to Kos. And he went nursing staff too. Who's bringing this up? We only know to say that the system is broken. Yeah, this broken system our government found is trying to fix. For the islands in particular, the issue of health is one of the three most serious issues that we are trying to highlight and solve. And if we don't solve it, we'll all be relieved. With regard to the motives for doctors to come, who is against and why don't you vote for them? How is it possible for a doctor to go to a small island with a few inhabitants by only giving him a hundred as an allowance, when we know that only one ticket to come from the islands or to go with 130 or 140 euros? Isn't it fair to have motives for the doctor above? Is it not fair for local government to be given the possibility - when it wants and when it can - to help bring doctors and nurses to our islands who are problematic? The South Aegean Region has decided to premium doctors coming. It cannot be implemented unless this law is passed here. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Your right! It shows everyone what he's taking! I don't have to stay any longer. It is a typical example of how much health is hurting our islands and how much we expect to be relieved of this bill, which, of course, is not the parallel programme. We will have a parallel schedule as long as the summer deal is there. If it doesn't end, and make the parallel, our normal schedule, that's gonna be there. A parallel program is not just bills. It is what the government is doing every day to relieve the suffering of our fellow humans. It's what it does every day for there to be justice, so that there are no interventions and ruffles in management, etc. But I won't stay in this. I would like to close - and I will be shorter than the time you have given me, Mr President - on the issue of refugees and immigration. The bill provides for facilities, simplification of procedures, so that the Ministry of Shipping can charter ships for migrants. I'm against it. You know the problems we have on the islands with refugees and immigrants. The summer we had to take ships, we saw and suffered. It was very difficult to find them and charter them and to be legitimate, etc. You know very well that the issue of refugees and immigration is of particular concern to our islands. So who disagrees with taking steps to alleviate these people who are coming, so that, as soon as possible, we can move them to the center? These are few examples, ladies and gentlemen, of why this bill should all be voted on and why we personally feel proud. It's one of the moments we're proud of because we're taking part in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much. Mr. Staruras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, today the country is deceiving. Uncertainties, endogenous and exogenous, swell. Challenges and risks, endogenous and exogenous, are multiplying. Societies weaken and the country's economy regress, seeking a new balance point much lower than what was achieved about a year ago, at the end of 2014. It has become clear and is now supported by all quantitative and qualitative indicators, that the country this first year of governance on the left has been wandered down. The economy has returned to the recession. The public economy is moving in marginal situations. The real economy, as a result of capital restrictions, has been aggravated. The overdue public debts to the private sector and the private sector to the public sector increased. The banks needed a new recapitalisation. The country needed additional funding from the partners, accompanied by a new, extremely painful memorandum, the property of which, as the Greek Government has long celebrated, has it. This is a memorandum containing additional austerity measures, new direct and indirect taxes, pension cuts and social benefits. This is summarised, in conclusion, the painful imprint of the ideas, abstractness, inefficiency, backwardness, inability of the left government, the government that currently receives the price of long-term bid and pays the cost of its populism. The government, however, after wandering over the hallucinations, is embarrassed to stand in the face of problems, entangled the country in repeated cycles of uncertainty and instability. Instead of addressing with determination and realism the problems which she itself has done with her actions and its omissions in many she has created, the government is returning to the lymphs for a 'parallel programme' and a so-called left gaze. He's trying to sprinkle with left gold dust the unpleasant reality and hide it. But he doesn't make it. Citizens are now aware of the repeated political deception, feel disappointed, discomfort and have begun to anger. This is because the left-wing political rhetoric and so-called left-wing social sensitivity have proved empty political content, while any left-wing soul became a sacrifice on the altar for a little political power, even extreme neoliberal cutting. The Minister made an ideological position with political flaming, separating lines for allegedly social sensitivity, ignoring or overlooking reality. Both are dangerous. Really, Minister, actually now. Is there an administration for fourteen months at the General Hospital of Lamia? In May 2015, you told me that there would be immediate. There's still no, fourteen months. Really, Minister, you've told me that they've been regularly inaugurating everything at the General Hospital of Lamia. Have you heard anything about the Paediatric Clinic in the past few months? So let's land, though, actually! However, the Minister said something else about the values of the Left, that they are discriminatory in favour of the weak, by introducing social redistribution mechanisms. Let's run them together for a while: Firstly, the Minister reminded me of 'Thessaloniki'. He referred to ‘Thessaloniki’. I would remind you that the government originally promised, through splendid declarations, to allocate EUR 2 billion in the first year to deal with the humanitarian crisis. It then landed unreasonably in the announcements, at EUR 200 million, and finally gave EUR 108 million, 50% less. I would remind you that for the same reason in 2014 it had been distributed as a social dividend of EUR 450 million. This is about ‘social sensitivity’. Let's go down. Second, rationalization of the grant of the heating allowance, if anything tells you. How was this translated by the Left Government? Reduction of the allowance by 105 million in 2016. In the past, we have given twice as much money. Thus, with the new left-hand social sensitivity criteria half cut the relative budget line, the number of beneficiaries is considerably reduced and the allowance is reduced to those who are ultimately granted. You want more? Protection of households and businesses against auctions through announcements of “slaughtiness” and statements such as “no house in the hands of a banker” proved to be a good promise You want more? Maintaining the administration of the ESS was very quickly translated into a 223 million-mile cut in 2016 and abolished thereafter. And today it is time to discuss the so-called 'parallel programme', a number of provisions: some - many! - unsecured, some who set up structures and working groups and obviously have a financial impact, some others that are the result of small, party arrangements and services, and others, already institutionalised by the previous government, such as the regulation on the provision of hospital and medical care to our insecure fellow citizens. A ultimate purpose of the draft law? To build up a so - called socially sensitive person for the government. And all of this at the same time that this government imposes new measures of 6 billion euros, followed by other, additives, both for 2016 and for 2017 and for 2018, while the government is targeting and colluding with all the productive classes of the country, while national, political, economic and social problems are exacerbated and multiplying. However, the lengthy period with the anodes on the left political fairy tales is over. We must put an end to this unreserved rule! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much Mr Stavura. He was consistent in his time. It scared us consistently! Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor. Mr. Kegeroglu, now understand how consistent you must be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President, for the admonition. I remember what had happened in this Chamber in 2010, when the crisis broke out, and when we had been called upon to deal with the huge problems that were first in terms of the country's budgets, the public finances, that is, the annual deficit of 36 billion. At first - 2010 - they were all across the street. The New Democracy, by refusing to accept the enormous responsibility it had since the last six years, has whistled indifferently. The other forces followed the path of the formation, with indirect support from the New Democracy at the beginning, of the so-called 'antimonetary front'. On that 'antimony front', Mr Xanthi - because you have referred to yourself - you had a good record on the Golden Dawn. Only they seem to mean the 'antimony'. That was a parentheses. He then came in 2012 with an effort to reach an agreement, which the New Democracy indirectly smuggled again with "Zapopea 1,2,3,", because he considered that the effort should not be made together, but that this party should have a Prime Minister. The people listened to the easy words of the "Zapia" and gave a solution. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] These are unrelenting excuses. The Papademu government was thrown by Samaras for certain reasons. He clearly said he wants to be a prime minister. If you deny it, then you are also opposed to yourself. At least these are historical truths. Then, after two consecutive elections, SYRIZA refused to enter the co-responsibility to deal with the problems, and this was the mandate. The first and second parties were passed the New Democracy and SYRIZA. They also voted on the country's governance to address the major problems. And he took his tail out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u422	Quiet, please. Mrs. Stuboulis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u423	I think you're keeping your vacation time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u424	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u425	So he took his tail out. It's going well. We with the traditional opponents have worked together, precisely because we had a responsibility and a sense of responsibility for the country, for the citizens, to finally get out of the vicious circle of recession in which we entered from 2008, while, at the same time, moving on reforms and changes, which have so far not only overcome things, but there has been no reform that is comparable to what has been done in previous years, for example, e-prescription, since we have been discussing health issues. He's coming in 2014 and the new magic, the new "Zappeia". Only this time they were called "Thessaloniki program". And that's right, Mr. Loverdus said not to insult the city, because the city wasn't the fault of anything. And it is the program of deception of the Greek people, as the ministers are now beginning to admit, after one another, with the last of Mr Sguridis who told the truth. He tried, of course, to say, "Oh, others were lying too." No, gentlemen! Another in 2010 that the crisis had not escaped and was not known the size of the problem and another in 2012, another in 2014. However, let us take your interpretation that things were just as you said and that the country could give the thirteenth pension, 12 000 euros tax free, the abolition of HPAI, and the country had a positive rate at that time, and it had covered the deficits and could indeed, with a declining tax, the social dividend that we removed violently - yes, it is a fact - from the income of the worker and the retired person. From December 2014 until today, the situation in Europe has improved sharply. The whole of Europe is in development. All of Europe! We have an unprecedented level of low oil prices, which contributes very much to the support of the economy. We have a quantitative relaxation which all the countries of Europe are taking advantage of. And we went back. And we ask why? Since there wasn't a charge from outside. What's the reason we went back? What's changed? But only governance, plan and policies. The current result, which is a burden and backwardness of the country by at least three years, is your work. And my colleague said he needed psychological support. And he said he did well in the summer when he voted for the memorandum, because the government today brings the arrangement for the insurers. But the problem is not a vote on the memorandum, because when we had reached the cliff, the loan contract had to walk to prevent the country from falling apart. The problem is that with your policies from January 2015 and within just seven months it took a third memorandum! That's the problem, gentlemen. If you have not understood this, you are making a huge mistake today. You are mistaken, when you continue within a circle of recession to bring real measures, thinking that budgetary problems are solved through the causes of the recession. Oh, no! You're making a mistake! The problem of social protection, not only in the crisis, but also outside of the crisis, must be on the agenda of a country that wants to respect itself, the weak, all the people in need. That is why the institution of 'guaranteed income' is an institution that will work both in the crisis and when we get out of it. Of course with other features then. Today, however, this application was necessary for the weakest, for the people who experience extreme poverty. What's wrong with the government? It thinks that guaranteed social income is the financial support we give to the families who are part of this programme or this policy. Big mistake! This is one of three aspects of the policies of guaranteed income. The second aspect talks about automatic integration into programs and services and the provision of social care on the part of the state and the official institutions for all those who have joined the institution. It is therefore planned to incorporate into health and safety. Automatic integration, as long as you are economically weak, is provided for, automatic integration into the social tariffs of the municipalities, automatic integration into PPC's social tariffs, automatic integration into a free transfer from the Public Transport. Watch this, too. The third line on work is very important, because if you do not help the person who can, of course, re-entry to work, so that he does not need financial assistance and the allowance, you do nothing. That is an integrated institution, therefore. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few more seconds, Mr President, since I was on vacation, in your custody, I conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u426	We're moving on, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u427	I conclude by saying that this was not properly appreciated by the government in order to complete the institution and extend it to the whole country, when it was ready in any case. Choose other forms. We voted for the proposals put forward by the government in March, because all aid to the weak must be based, but it is not what the country needs. It needs the integrated implementation of the guaranteed social income that solves the issues. There were 20 million more for reintegration. They've obviously been exploited elsewhere. But that was not the purpose. This effort had to be finalised to speak together common language today, in a formula that is a national strategy and is approved, if you wish, both of the partners and of the European Union and of those of us who have presented it. In this sense, I would like to say that instantly, Mr President, we want to discuss the proposal for a law that we have tabled - the report by the General Accounting Office of the State in Parliament has also come - to restore and extend the country with the guaranteed social income for all three aspects of its policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u428	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u429	One last thing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u430	You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Xanthi, two hundred thousand booklets, as I have said many times, have been published in 2014 for uninsured and economically weak citizens and despite the stumblings from committees, they could enter hospitals. Today, with your regulation, you are again referring to uninsured persons, but there is a great category of insured persons, but who do not have an insurance capacity, whether due to debts or because a worker has a forty-five marks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u432	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u433	If he has forty meanings in IKA, the worker doesn't have insurance cover with your setting. You need to amend it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u434	How's he not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u436	Only for uninsured people. You say: 'Do not be insured directly or indirectly.' The paragraph must be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Kegeroglu, why are you continuing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u438	The following must be inserted: 'And those who have lost the insurance capacity'. It can't be done. It's wrong. It is not universal coverage, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u439	The Minister heard that. Thank you. Mr. Vorides has the floor, and then Mrs. Papapega.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if SYRIZA is satisfied with the provisions of the parallel programme, and that is the parallel programme, then why should we be sad? I'm fine. I am sure that with your enthusiasm within Ethiopia you will also be seen when, when returning to your constituencies, you tell them that they should not complain about the Katrugalos bill, that they should not complain because you increased VAT and the products have been revalued, that they should not complain about the tax on winemakers, about the reductions in pensions by 2% and 6%, that farmers should not complain about the imminent increase in the tax to 27%, that of course the free professionals are totally wrong to voice, because you voted today on the parallel programme! And, of course, they are still not aware of the importance of this programme, which one deserves to see the enormous areas it is doing for society, because it sets up a committee to review the institutional framework of local government, regulates the issue of the working hours of infants, there are issues of the Journal of the Government and the National Printing Office, issues of compliance of the municipalities with the decisions of the European Union, regulations of the Helexpo ID and other such crucial provisions, which will obviously all understand and understand that they are responding irrationally! So, if you're happy, why shouldn't we be? However, I come to the'marine' of the social policy of this bill. It is to be wondered: either colleagues - or some of the colleagues - are completely irrelevant or are obviously liars. Because, they come here, they break their clothes for the great incision that takes place on the issue of unsafes and this pioneer thing that SYRIZA is doing today with this bill, which finally covers a huge gap! What gap does the provisions cover? What wasn't covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u441	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u442	He came today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u443	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u444	Everything. Bravo! That's what you tell them and you're confusing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u445	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u446	You are confusing them because they are listening to their ministers, who are supposed to have knowledge and handled the subject and they say 'Everything'. So I come and say. You confessed here, however, after pressure and after you had told them that there were indeed two ministerial decisions and these two ministerial decisions covered what they covered at the level of these laws and covered all the national insured persons who lost their security, so all Greeks, as well as all foreigners who were uninsured and who had legal residence in Greece. That's what the two ministerial decisions covered, ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u447	Voucher.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u448	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u449	Voucher.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u450	What voucher? That's normal. Voucher, because they tell you, but here they tell you do, you are right not to know them, but you do not have to do so here, but they tell you - it was only in case there were diagnostic tests to diagnose the disease, which was found not to exist from diagnostic tests. That was voucher's only case, that void was covered. All the rest was covered by the budget. Why don't you tell people that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u451	I'll answer that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u452	But we don't have to say inaccurate. Dispute on policies as long as you like. Speaking inaccurate and lying isn't. That was the void that was covered with voucher. Covered by primary, secondary, all medical operations covered by medical treatment. All covered for these population groups. What's the plugin? I told you there was an additional here. It's not like you're doing anything. You're doing more than that. What's the more? There is a lack of a good colleague who has also given me the completeness of my legal systems when I said that you are actually covering anyone who is outside the law. It says to me: 'What are you talking about?' So I read who you're covering, because that's the plugin. Those - who are critical of this provision, and it is also important for our fellow citizens to listen to them - are those who, regardless of the legal status in which they are situated and the possession of legal documents, are covered, whether they are covered by legal documents or have no legal status whatsoever, and I say who: Whoever is minors - ordinarily superfluous, minors are covered by the Convention on the Rights of the Child - women in pregnancy, disabled persons in structures, people in mental health facilities, people who are hosted in all therapeutic treatment structures, prisoners, those who provide social work, people with disabilities 67%. We start here: The beneficiaries of international protection, the stateless, whether they are holders of a residence permit, ladies and gentlemen, are either pending the adoption of a decision on a request for renewal of the international protection regime or on an alleged action or legal instrument against the rejection application. Who is that? Everyone, because whoever comes here makes an application. Until it's judged, it's covered. When judged and rejected by the administration, it shall bring an action and be covered. When the decision on the appeal is given, it shall bring an action to the courts, be covered and we shall wait for it to be finalised. And that's hundreds of thousands of applications pending. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Everybody! Do we understand? Why are you complaining about this criticism? In fact, you say that the corresponding provisions apply everywhere. They don't apply anywhere. Such a device with this range does not apply. Let us look at the budgets of the order. We had anticipated that 100 million euros without all of them. So you leave EUR 100 million with all of them. How are they gonna get there? I am going on, saying this: you say it was bureaucratic and it was not working. What was the bureaucratic process? It was a three-member committee in hospitals, composed of 'ex officio' - depending on their properties - which, ladies and gentlemen, had to find out that he had AMCA and had lost his insurance. That's it. It was an accreditation energy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, do I have thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u453	You've got thirty and forty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much. What are the gentlemen of the government doing now? Listen. By decision of the Ministers for Health, Labour and Social Security, the terms, conditions for access, nursing and health care to the institutions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be laid down. What are they doing? From where there was a regulated procedure, they are asking for legislative powers to define the procedure. We're already standing and waiting. So what's the difference? A regulated situation is deregulation and we are waiting for the ministerial decision, while all of them are covered. I would like to raise another point, which I see to be also considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u455	But please, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u456	I shall say it very quickly, Mr President. Listen to something. You are also bringing the issue of the famous 24 million euros. Since 2014, the EUR 24 million has been entered in the budget to go to the budget diagnostic centres. Since 2014 they have been written by us. Why should they go as an additional budget? Because a period of 2014 had not worked. It was the time of the reform and they had closed down. Therefore, diagnostics also covered public needs. These 24 million euros were secured by us to go to diagnostic centres. They are lost in 2015 from the budget. You are now transferring them to the 2016 budget, which means that they are not offset by the 2014 'claw back'; you have made them out of the 2014 budget; and you are redistributing that is not'swap' reasonably and that is 12 million euros in diagnostic centers, 6 million euros in physico-therapists and 6 million euros in some other health providers, which I do not remember at the moment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u457	In the psychiatric clinic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u458	Yeah, at the clinic. However, this EUR 24 million at that time - if this is EUR 24 million, because I find it interesting to find the coincidence of the amount - we had made it because people had gone and had covered a gap in the public structure. We didn't make it out to share in general, right and left. They were the ones who had provided the service we had never been able to cover as public because of the change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u459	You're done, Mr. Voridis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u460	So there is a question at this point too. I'm just finishing up, saying this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u461	You're done, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u462	Can I close with a phrase?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u463	With a phrase as a former Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u464	It's not nice, that is, signifiably.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u465	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u466	Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely clear that parallel deception and falsehood programmes cannot overthrow the experienced social reality. With this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are today in conflict and confrontation, with your great ideologies, with the ideological greatities, with the great programmes of the Left, but also with the hard reality that you have imposed on the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u467	Thank you. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u468	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u469	No, please. Mr Igoumenidis, who is a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, will speak immediately after Mrs Pappaga and you when your turn comes. You keep the evidence. It is a debate that will go until tomorrow, late at noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u470	Yeah, but some things have to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u471	No, they won't respond directly and immediately. You can't do that, you know that. Nor should the ministers answer some Members privilegedly. That's not right. It's like choosing who we're answering. You understand. Keep all this, also consult the parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u472	But when I say it, Mr. Vorides won't be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u473	We'll agree to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u474	Mr Polakis, because you are now here, I tell you from a microphone to consult Parliamentary representative to report some of the information you want to tell us. Mrs. Pappiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a parallel programme, it is a programme fully integrated into the philosophy of the third memorandum and the previous ones. In fact, this programme, beyond the benefits - crumbs - the word crumbs, or crumbs are not! - which it does, contains a number of structural measures in the form of mergers, mergers, agreements, creation of new forms of business, that is to say - if you want - all that skeleton in which the anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots measures, in the area of social policy and the health of the next memorandum will also be signed, either when the government gets a good degree or for the so-called 'debt regulation'. Indeed, it is a clever parallel program that you call it parallel, but it is completely integrated into the philosophy of the memorandum. The Minister said this - I have to admit, in an elegant way, an authoritarian concept - that is what the bill says. It is within the conception and expectations, the desires of society." You said it elegantly, and I'll explain what I mean. Every day, however, we hear from the Prime Minister, by government officials, by MPs who go to the various panels, once someone criticizes them - fair, unfair, unjust, how they feel it doesn't matter - to answer: "We have the mandate of three elections. In fact, the last election campaign brought us first, the people assigned us the government in the knowledge that we signed a memorandum." Excuse me! Is that or isn't this an authoritarian and total perception? No party - and here I put ours - has a right after the elections, and for every matter at any time and for all the years until they become the next, to consider the mandate of the voters as having much more that you do at most - very much to say: 'I have the mandate of 36% of the Greek people'. And 80% if you had taken it, you shouldn't have said it again. Nor the mandate of the voters! Nor can we claim such a thing. So they also have no right to those who have voted for you - and they have voted for you clearly, no one doubts it - to make blocks, to make strikes, to make mobilisations, to use those forms of struggle that they consider to put pressure on you to take even some relief measures? What's that supposed to mean? Ten times a day we hear this thing from your MPs. Is that a democratic concept? With 36%, does society expect the parallel program? And look at that, of course you took the vote. No one disputes that. They didn't vote for the trees, people voted. But you were voted on by hundreds of thousands who believed you, who trusted you, who did not want to vote for New Democracy and PASOK and want to try something else. They saw the wrapping, of course, in the box you offered them and not the rotten underneath. But they believed you. They are the ones who said: 'From ten if they do both of them, I will be happy.' However, there were those who voted for you precisely because they knew that you would follow the same policy on the tracks of previous governments and vote for you precisely because they believed that you could go through the same and worse without popular reactions. You were voted on in mid-stage, upper middle-stage, with the help of shipping capital, tourist capital, with the help of pharmaceutical industrialists. Significant parts of the chapter have said: Since the New Democracy or the PASOK cannot support SYRIZA, because he will better pass the measures. There are also those who voted for you because they believed you and those who voted for you because they expected you to abolish popular reactions. Leave this trick that street fighters want to overthrow the government in general and abstract terms. Those who supported you, those who followed the foul of Obama and others, are, of course, displeased and, of course, what they are interested in is that there should be a government of cooperation with you as a body, even with the Chipras Prime Minister. If they can't do it before the election, they'll want to do it after the election. Well, leave these terrorists to the people now. But let's see this particular parallel program now. You give EUR 100 million for two and a half million uninsured - which may be three million, I do not know - when a significant part of the insured cannot pay for their involvement in the medicines or do the extra-survivorship tests in private diagnostic centres. The EUR 100 million, I cannot say crumbs. What are we asking? We're asking for free for everyone. These pharmaceutical protocols, health protocols, which of course have been inaugurated since previous years, which you adopt, are not based on scientific criteria. No one wants multi-pharmaceuticals or to spend ten times a year X-rays and magnetic tapes, etc. They are not based at all on scientific criteria. It's austerity to the benefits. If they are based on scientific criteria, we are also in favour, because, after all, as many drugs as possible and as many such examinations earn monopolies. The people don't win. Here is a series of health responsibilities for local authorities, NGOs - which are one of the worst forms of covert business "NGOs with the lowest" - with EOPYY, PESY etc. One should owe one another, namely, one another to exploit one another. You have beneath me - and I say the popular word 'definitely' - literally charity, social solidarity and volunteerism. You're saying he's got a class mark on the parallel program. Yes, it is. We're not questioning it. Let's tell you what the class mark you're passing is, which is a class reactionary. You say that all your social policy is to remove social inequalities and when you talk about social inequalities, you speak from industry to industry, within the industry, to divide those who receive EUR 400 from those who receive EUR 800 and EUR 900 from those who are unemployed with employees, flexible relationships with permanent work, etc. And you'll have the low-payer one who has nothing. Again, it is social solidarity, humanism and volunteering. If you want, is there a more voluntary movement than the movement of workers, employees, poor small and medium-sized enterprises? Voluntarily they enter, they can't get in by force. Voluntarily they decide and come out. Take Thera's Hospital. Now it's a model, the hospital of Santorini. This is a privatisation of state hospitals, in his name that there is income in Santorini. But, look at it, there may be income in Santorini this is always depending on local income. The same will be true of the municipalities. A municipality, which has a social composition with large wages, will be able to offer more medical services. What will the poor municipality do? Although all municipalities are in a state of bankruptcy. Clearly, a class mark exists and we have no doubt about it. But I will tell you something else: what you are bringing you have studied very well, too, international developments. We are also studying international developments. In order for you to adapt, we to contribute as much as possible to the development of the movement. Mr Tsipras had gone to the Davos World Economic Forum - of course, in my opinion at the all-round events - I do not think that he is aware, because these are secret, of what the core decided. And I'll read to you. So what do they say? "It appreciates the Davos World Economic Forum that in the next few years, by 2020, seven million jobs will be lost and only two million jobs will be created as a result of the technological needs of the fifteen developed and emerging, as they are called, "country". Who are these countries? It is China, the USA, Great Britain, Brazil, France, Germany, Australia, India, Italy and Turkey. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I see the time. You understand, in other words, where unemployment goes to Greece. And let us not incriminate technologies. And they say, of course, the trend is the same in the rest. "Works of work will be lost in all industries, but the biggest losses will be borne by the healthcare industry, the energy and financial sector, and the unemployment of women will rise." And, of course, they are the assessments of the International Labour Organisation. Therefore, you want to completely downgrade now, to break down the demands of the people. The demands of the people, of course, are not generally abstract in the air. The people's demands must be based on what we say: 'Without you, it does not turn' in its offer, without the people there is nothing, no production, services and so on. Secondly, in the country's development potential, which are undermined by the capitalist development path and participation in the European Union and thirdly by the progress of science and technology. We are not generally talking about needs subjectively processed. And you just want to lead to the logic of the poor house, to the agglomerations, to the toast and toast, that is, toast and tomato. That is where you want to throw the vast majority of the people down, reduce the demands. For years, not only have the debate on occupational diseases, occupational risks, prevention, prevention and treatment based on age, gender, etc. And to get this over with, why do we talk about this? Because you promise the people that the austerity that exists today is in parentheses. That is what New Democracy and PASOK said, that is, there will be growth. We do not tell you that there will be no investment in Greece, it can be done. A prerequisite for investment, a condition for the regulation of debt, is for the assessment to be made to live in poorer areas. That will be the factor for the investments to come, so there will be after the investments. Of course, the investor does not only look at cheap labour, but also has other commitments, such as environmental commitments to wars, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u476	You're welcome, Mrs. Papariga.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u477	This development can be ensured as long as the previous governments have ensured it. But social policy modern for the people, free for all independent sex, religion for those who live in Greece, you are not going to do, because it has not even happened in the favourable context of the development of capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u478	Thank you. Mr Igoumenides has the floor and then Mr Panayotaros from the Members of Parliament has the floor for a strict twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as some of the wings have tried to put brakes on it, as much as your reaction has reached the end of the debate, this bill, part of our parallel programme, is here today and is being discussed in plenary. That is why, in my opinion, all the wings of this House, instead of hiding behind procedural proposals - pretexts, take a clear and clear position, so that people who listen to us with whom you are on what boat you are on exactly. I will not refer to individual aspects of the year's economic plan, because its main body concerns the health sector, with measures relating to the unrestricted access to public health services of all the uninsured and members of their families and vulnerable social groups of our population, as well as measures which have been in trouble for years with the National Health System, such as the facilitation of the process of crisis and appointments of doctors of the ESS, issues of compensation for the newspapers of medical and scientific staff, incentives for the doctors of the countryside service to cover the positions of the islands and infertile areas, regulate issues of the EKB, operates, opens up the new Santorini Hospital. In short, this bill contains measures which are part of our objective of building a free public health system, ensuring equal access and universal coverage of our population. All of this will operate on the basis of the principle of equality, transparency, evaluation, quality and effectiveness of the health system with a view to protecting both workers and patients and other health services. Ladies and gentlemen, as our Prime Minister has said, the government's work has two complementary aspects: on the one hand, the agreement that we signed with our lenders with the well-known prerequisites and on the other hand we have the strategic plan of our Government to get out of the crisis with growth, redistribution of the wealth produced and social justice. Here, the prerequisites - I would say - are included in society. In this direction of society's prerequisites, therefore, this draft law is also in progress today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known in the Chamber that his first welcome is shortly before Christmas. He finally withdrew to give some explanation to the institutions, to prepare himself better, to participate in the debate, etc. However, let us not dwell on these issues which in fact conceal procedural shortcomings, since the substance was not there, but on the political point. The brutal reaction to the bill was a move with many messages and is finally receiving our fighting people. They're trying to overthrow any political plans of our government, escaping from the memorial print. Because the measures are not centralised and have little budgetary costs - and that is why one more - wanted to show that they do not allow any political autonomy - let me say to the government. As a whole, the debt issue of the Greek and its treatment is an issue primarily political, so the targeting of our lenders is the political defeat of SYRIZA, that is, a government in a country of the European Union with a torso on the Left. Clearly the message is, in any case, that they are not prepared to leave political space to the government. On the road that our lenders carved, after the line they carved, the scarecrows were taken, I mean the manikins, which are intended to cause terror on behalf of their boss. I refer to all these political formations that see their shade sunset and take it as their political stature. I am referring to the opposition, which has a neoliberal perceptions that is politically identical to the interests of lenders, is looking forward to micro-party criteria moving, to the political defeat of SYRIZA, even if this is achieved with the defeat of our country and the political victory of lenders. On this point, before I go any further, let me point out that the well-known non-viable channels with the huge'marines' and the tolerance of the parties to the interlocutory have so far not presented a single provision of the bill, which we are discussing. But let's take the things and the opposition parties in turn. As far as the New Democracy is concerned, it belongs to the same party as Merkel and Shoeble. They have the same neoliberal ideological approach to problems and their treatment. In other words, they see the way out of the crisis through the destruction of productive forces. And in such a direction of destroying the productive forces is the deterioration in the position of workers, as regards their wages, is the deterioration in the position of workers in terms of their working relations. In such a direction, unemployment is also the cause of the destruction of the productive forces. That is the position, the classic, the political position of the New Democracy, and that is why they have expressed their welcome to the bill by saying that they should leave and not come back again, neither this nor similar. However, in your opposition tactics eventually unify yourself and make it clear to us what is the case: Are we lying, because we brought measures that you had first decided, or are we battered, because we are bringing new measures of unconsciousness and, therefore, we are at risk of budgetary derailment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u480	You got it. Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u481	Below. Stop, in my opinion, the dangerous fishing in the blurred waters of racist views "health only for Greeks" and clarify your position. Are you in favour of or against the health coverage of refugees and immigrants? Really, you said a lot. I didn't hear exactly what prevented you from opening the Santorini Hospital. I could say too much, but I'll stand on the last one. I'll just say one thing. I asked the Ministry of Health services for days ago for the image of workers in the health system by specialisation. Answer: "Thirty-five thousand gaps do not have any specialty, because we have not yet implemented the positions and we are moving towards the direction of the new political leadership of the Ministry of Health". Why don't they have them yet? Why don't they have them so far? Because it was quite simply, gentlemen, that you were not interested in covering the posts, the gaps that your policy created in the public health system. Instead of standing alone, then, you must apologise to the Greek people for the gentleman, for your conscious political choice of shrinking public care. The inclination in the private sector was expressed here in the most official way, by the most official lips of the President of the New Democracy in his first speech as President of the New Democracy. He said: 'The private insurance system'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u482	He didn't say that, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u483	One of the current Vice-Presidents of the New Democracy is still in despair and is sad at the fact that he did not invent the measures himself, because we did not find the measures, but the troika imposed them. And if we didn't have a troika, we'd have to find out. I do not know if in his despair this current Vice-President of the New Democracy, who was not the inspiration of the troika's policy, was led to add another black page to his political path. I refer to the recently published 'black paper' in the New Democracy. However, here we are not considering emotions, we are considering political positions, and for these positions you must apologise to the Greek people. And what's your apology? Again in the most official way from this step in its second presence, the President of the New Democracy addressed the Prime Minister and indirectly to SYRIZA said: "You are old, you are older than the old." Now what are you gonna say? What do you want to answer? Personally, when listening to the President of the New Democracy, Breech came to my mind and let the poet, the thinker, respond to my position. I read: "I saw the old one approaching, but it came as a new one. He leaned on new minions, which no one had ever seen and smelled new scents of rot, which no one had ever smelled before." I will come to some of the so-called 'centres' positions. First of all, I would refer first of all to Mr Leventis's own statement at the first welcome of the bill we are debating today: 'The bill was withdrawn at the request of the lenders'. Since that was the position of Mr Leventis, who, of course, said 'certain languages' today - are not the President of the Party - what attitude has the Centroon Union taken? I'm not involved in the conversation, I'm just watching. And Mr Leventis continues to say 'the foreigners tell me'. What strangers? Xenos is also the Syrian refugee who at the moment may be drawn from the Aegean Sea, a stranger is Siomple. Whose strangers are he talking to? Who do they represent and with what institutional role? "Do not participate in the government with Tsipras because you will sink, but only participate in the Ecumenical Republic." Really, what are they planning behind the people's back? What are they planning at the expense of the Greek people? Beyond retracting them every time from this Step, how does the President of the Central Association respond to the reality of all this? And what we did not hear from PASOK - Democratic Reconciliation. From you I expected to hear what you were doing to open the Santorini Hospital. You're saying we didn't consult. The party's employer said so before. We talked about it with institutions. It doesn't make any sense. What can I testify to the Minutes of the House? The debate on 17-12-2015 with the institutions? And you said it was a bill that has a ruffelette. What was the rushphetti? The provision for baby-care hours. In the debate with the institutions, the Athanasios Municipality, the Secretary General of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Baby Nurse, also received the floor. Article 14 is fully in line with scientific and research data from the debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have time to go on for more. I would refer you to the whole meeting. Who voted in favour of the position expressed here by Mrs Christophilopoulou? Mr. Patolis. 'SYRIZA buys votes'. Truth, because I don't know about the sport, can you tell me if there are your executives who have experience to buy consciences, what are the proposals that buy votes? Or is it rhetoric to ensure the uninterrupted access of all to the public health system? What proposals do we buy votes? Is it with them to cover the refugees? Look, let's get serious. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can seriously claim that the bill was a work of sloppy, unprepared, rouspheological or voter. So let us stand in its essence. We in all your objections answer: Yes, our policy is class-based. Yes, our policy is trying through thousands of obstacles and pressures to support the poor and the weak, to support the lower social strata. Kurelu, I would say that this is the cave you're trying to dress up the nakedness of your policy. Rushphetological and voting was - and unfortunately for our people it still remains - your policy. One more thing. The politically colourless, odourless, ignorant and technical preparation and search for equivalent measures for which you are leaving us are easy to assimilate by neoliberal ideology and politics without political orientation, without political firmness, with social attributes and left footprints.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u484	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u485	I shall conclude, Mr President. This explains why your political ships are lightly battling to the right. With regard to these signals the policies of a left-wing road we are willing to answer: Yes, we are willing to pave the way for another course of our country. We are prepared to fight for our programme, to open up new roads to the country's development with a movement that will break obstacles and resistance within and outside Greece and will ultimately impose solutions for democracy, solidarity, justice and dignity. The message is clear: Left is here in the fighting social groups with the fighting social forces. With our struggles we will pave the way for a new Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u486	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u487	Any problem with time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u488	So much for poets, where to catch up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u489	Mrs. Christophilopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u490	Here you go, Mr. President. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u491	It was two and a half minutes, it was 14.45'. It is the minimum that a PASOK parliamentary representative has ever spoken. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Loverdes was interrupted in the thirteenth, Mr. President! I protest, like Mrs Fotou, Mr President! The bias...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u493	And I answer you, just as I answered Mrs. Fotio. And Mrs Fotou said the same. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and four educational sessions from the General School of Nice Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Last Friday, others from Nice had come, but they were outside. Every Friday you come! Mr. Spirtz will announce an amendment, and then it's your turn, Mr. Panayotare. You will allow me then to say who will then speak, to know exactly what is going to happen and what is going to happen. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr President. It's a typical matter. The amendment includes, for publication in the EC, the tables of the annexes to the Agreement on the 'Morea' reopening of the Agreement and the signed conventions which could not be published instead of the plans published. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u495	Thank you. The order of the speakers is as follows: Mr Panayotaros, Mr Philis and Minister Antonopoulou will be given the floor. Then Members will be given the floor and so on. Ioannis Lagos, Michael Jellonis, Maximos Charakopoulos, Nottis Metarakis, Konstantinos Tasou and Ioannis Koutsoukis. The Minister, Mr Paulakis, Mr Dannelis, as a parliamentary representative, Mrs Folios and Mr George Karras, will then be given the floor as a parliamentary representative. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Blonde, for his sorting with Mr Brutsi, where he has heard - and they all admit it - that the only political force that puts Greeks first and then everyone else is Golden Dawn. Is the increase in the extra-period contribution, which seems to be being made, also a measure of relief policy, a measure of 'VenzoL' or 'DUPHALAC'? We don't know! Gentlemen, you have brought a parallel program, so you say it and you do it, but you will have to be serious at last. A few months ago you voted for the third memorandum, the most horrific of all, and indeed with the help of all the wings of the House, other than the Golden Dawn, in order to continue this six-yearly solvent, nationally biocidal policy at the expense of the Greek people. You brought a parallel program, which is the most tragedies proof of your failure, of your involvement in continuing crime at the expense of the Greek people. You brought a parallel program that you've been trying to ball, cover all the lies you've told for a year now that you've been government but also the years that you've been a civil opposition. In order not to remember instantly a few things that you said up to the 6th of July: Don't people pay HIFI, not to pay the toll, not to pay PPC, close the streets, "don't" one, "don't" the other. Until you became a government and passed laws, with which you persecuted all of them, who listened to your hurricanes and did so accordingly. In fact, you will be chasing the tens of thousands of farmers who are in the entire Greek territory, with the law that you have already voted that the streets should not be closed and photographically for them? You must have known what's waiting for you. Or will you apply special zealous laws that are subtle, such as that of Vorides for tolls? Really, what can non-governmental organisations have to do with further facilitating their funding in a parallel relief programme? Probably the relief must have something to do with your friends, who are all in various NGOs. In fact, because these funds are not directly attributed to public bodies, so that they can go directly from the state where they must go. As for you in the New Democracy, do not vote on the article and amendments to non-governmental organisations and harm your Chief's sister, who has the non-governmental ACTION AID! When Mr Mitsotakis went to Lesvos and made statements, from behind it was wide - the ACTION AID banner. Don't vote at all because you're going to cause problems within the Mitsotakis family! In the end, if these non-governmental organisations had not collected the huge sum of money collected from the various governments over the years, they would not have needed either a parallel programme or anything at all. In fact, what does the burning of the dead have to do with a parallel programme of relief for the Greek people? Here too, should the hypocrisy of the Left - and not just the Left - be emphasised - which her contempt for the Orthodoxy leads her to bring laws and foreshadows the substance of paid burning in the crematoriums of the dead and their'mixing'. In fact, what can they have to do with a parallel programme to relieve the Greek people of various provisions that you have brought about the management of waste? There, however, you are looking for the further relief of known big-workers who have taken all the projects related to waste management. What if you electionly had a very nice programme for waste management, copying, 'copy-paste' to the literality of the Golden Dawn programme, and of course you can't apply it because you don't even know it or want it. So since this bill eases the pain of the Greeks, why don't you go tell them privately in your special homelands? Oh, no! You're a sucker? Where are you going now? There is now the 'come see'. You don't even walk by. You bring a parallel program, clipboard, unadulterated, whose strict criteria of subjection to these crumbs - because that is what this is all about - perhaps only Barba - Thomas meets them. But if anyone thinks about it, neither does he because he had a cabin. With Article 56, which is your flag, where you are talking about 'health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups', you bring health care for all. In fact, you have here and you have sorted out with the New Democracy's people who brought free insurance and all. And proceeded with the classrooming. The New Democracy has shown you two provisions, you say 'Let us bring it now'. And you further proceeded with your segregation, which of the two parties is more philanthropist and cares for uninterrupted care and all those who enter our country, illegally, semi-unlawfully, semi-legally or otherwise. We have heard the example of the Minister, Mr Xanthos, who read something from this Step and admitted something very serious that will follow. He said: "But should mentally ill or those who have health problems or any other type not be treated, even if they are illegal, even if they are refugees, even if they are semi-legal?" So what? You have solved all the problems with the mentally ills of our country, the Greeks, the people who have motor problems and you say: "Okay, we are so great, let us go further, open in our arms to the whole world." That's what this is about. See what happens: tens of thousands go into our homeland every day and now that it is summer to see what has to be done. It will be the final blow against our country, this coordinated plan with what you bring and you will vote unconstitutionally, and many of the decisions of the Council of State are written in the oldest of your footwear, as will the previous ones. And since you are so, but so comfortable, you said: "Okay with the natives, let us also deal with the foreigners." But who pays him in the end? You say in Article 56: "... the persons in the following categories, irrespective of the legal status in which they are situated and the possession of legal residence documents in our country". I mean, without papers or papers, they'll all be covered. On the next page you say: ‘In a decision of the Ministers for Labour, Health, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and in any case of a competent Minister, the terms and conditions of access and medical care to the institutions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be defined and any financial contribution to the medical expenditure on the basis of economic criteria’. In other words, the patient will either pay, because he will not meet these strict criteria, the Greek is always natural or at the end of the day the Greek taxpayer, because they are the only ones who pay for the evils of the whole world. I'm telling you this so we can know what's going on. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that is why you are preparing all these hot spots cornerly, not only five, but from what they all show, you will prepare dozens of points, detention centres, hosting centres and anything else in the entire Greek territory. You've admitted it. Mr. Avramopoulos also admitted it today, your ministers in various interviews everywhere that all those who come to our homeland will eventually be trapped here, because it seems that we are the only humanists on earth and everyone else are inhuman. In the Scandinavian countries these most progressive and progressive countries, which have accepted too many of the refugees or illegal immigrants, on the issue of health - to know what is happening - say: 'We do not give a single euro. If he has his own money, if he hasn't, he won't." Imagine the Greece that has collapsed in all respects, which Greek citizens are dying outside the Intensive Treatment Units, because there is no staff, the people are falling, to tell all of these hundreds of thousands, the millions that will come in the next few months "Come on, we are wide open". After all, we have also passed a bill on Greek citizenship where anyone who gives birth to our home country can automatically have his child after a while having Greek citizenship, his own parents, brothers, cousins and all others. You also voted for another law, the one on the cohabitation agreement. A number of couples will come from the foreign and the law - because they have this specificity - and they will be covered as will all in this afflicted country. I come back to hot spots and the latest information, because beyond the joke, these are the very serious ones. They're all coming and they're staying here. All you do is put the Greek army on fire, instead of dealing with the country's defense, to settle, to fix, to mop, to clean, to dust the detention centers. Of course, after supplies, feedingstuffs and some other issues - now that you're entering a classroom - some fast track contests are being held to get some supplies and take on nice things. Many sounds for friends, for friends who knew from the outset the terms of the competition that is being made directly and who had the papers ready to deposit them at the last minute. You brought NATO. One day you said "no, never, this meeting between Merkel - Erdogan is their case and Greece will resist, nothing like that" etc. The next day, with the tail on the legs, you admitted what you said after abomination was not the case. What's up with NATO? What's up? Immigration flows towards our country were sharply increased. NATO must not be involved in prosecuting or preventing refugees and illegal immigrants from entering our country. He's not going to do any of this. I guess there's something else in their minds that's imposed on you. Turkey wants to keep its backs, because from the east it is literally falling apart as a state. And we continue to defend it and help it by signing billions of euros for the refugee issue, while other solutions, far more inexpensive and more practicable. A second reason why NATO seems to be in the Aegean Sea - where one of the ships there is Turkish, to know what we are saying - is that with the upcoming general conflict in Syria, it will in any way want to block traffic, the movement of the Russian navy. But it's okay. In particular, you, the New Democracy and the PASOK, were the ones who supported the jihadists. You said that the Assad regime is delegated and that it must change everything that America and NATO and all the others have done to the detriment of Syria's national sovereignty, as it tries to do and achieve it in many ways as well as in the case of our country. We heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the parliamentary representative say that they did so much good when they were in the government, such as 'we helped the first child, the second child, we brought the 350 million euros, and we shared them in the world, we shared 700 more, we handed over a housed state' - and that was the best joke. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. You say you've handed over a housed state. Then why did the Greek people "black you"? And he blushed you again when SYRIZA still made the biggest coltumba and told the biggest lies to the Greek people. Such is the abstention of the Greek people to you. And if you think you're gonna come back and do the same thing you did, you're laughing. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, if you really wanted to show that you were humanists, very simply wouldn't vote for the third memorandum. You'd do a part of what you said before July 5th. And the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who ended up saying: 'Yes, our policy is class-specific', did not tell us in favour of whom? Apparently some class in another country, because at the moment you are hitting all Greeks from the poorest to the richest. And what would you do? This country with eight hundred billion debts - shameful, illegal and everything else - cannot move forward in any way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u497	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u498	We repeat three - four proposals, which only the Golden Dawn now says: auditing the debt, deletion of the largest part, since it will prove to be shameful, claiming the mortgage, strengthening the primary production and not breaking it up, as you are doing now, which all the institutions are on the way to you. What has been said at the outset, it seems, will continue the next day with the clashes between the government and the officer of opposition. Only Golden Dawn puts the Greek first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u499	The Minister has the floor, Mr Philis, and then Mrs Antonopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions on education and health contained in the bill under discussion are a small part of the parallel programme, namely the attempt to restructure the social state, which is at the heart of the SYRIZA policy, and that is why it was voted in September, with its political views clearly expressed to the Greek people. It is clear that, when the first assessment is completed - and we think that we will soon be completed - we will be able to have a development horizon so that we can move more clearly towards implementing the restructuring measures of the social state. It is also clear that the authorisation we have received from the Greek people is not authorised for some months, but for four years. We will be judged daily for our policies, but the final account for the Greek citizen will be at the end of the four-year period. Those who think they can create a climate of political destabilisation in various ways, one of which is their political presence at the side of the most extreme forces of the European conservative and reactionary political class, will be disproved, because the choice of the Greek people is political stability, development, democratic and social reconstruction of the country, so that we can soon overcome the precursor of the crisis and get out into the clearing of development. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on education contains four basic provisions. The first relates to compensatory education, the second to special education, the third to Open University and the fourth to secondary schools. All the provisions broaden the right of Greek citizens - students and adults - to education. I would like to invoke the outcome of a poll carried out - the six-monthly trends in MRB - which show education at all its levels to be the first good to which the citizens of our country are trusted today. 68% of the respondents - they are at the top - show confidence in our country's public education system. And in this respect, compared to what was happening at this time last year, we have 17% increase in the confidence of Greek citizens. Just to note that this strengthening of the confidence of Greek citizens in education - which do not ignore the problems that exist - is made in conditions of left-wing governance in our country, in budgetaryly harsh conditions, but in circumstances, I repeat, the rule of the Left in our country. Compensation: Repealed by the governments of the Memorandums. We got her back. We have been delayed, for reasons which are well known and which have to do with the successive, legislative postponements that have occurred. We are ready, as soon as the bill is passed, in the next few days, to proceed with the creation of the five hundred 15 centres of support for teaching throughout Greece, with a thousand twenty-three alternates of reduced working hours, with the financing of the NSRF from their respective lists of assistants. The five hundred and fifteen centres of support in high school came from the school directors' request and on the basis of the number of pupils and relate to the basic teaching courses in high school. I therefore repeat that we are ready, despite difficulties and delays, to proceed in the next few days, following the vote on the bill. Second theme, special lawsuit. The amendment we have tabled, which has now been made, relates to the need to introduce into our country the advanced and democratically accepted pedagogics at the moment throughout Europe a system of inclusion, co-ordination in the field of special education and the general school. I would like to tell you that with the proposals we are tabling, we do not remove partitions. It is simply, for the first time since 2008, that the process is now starting to establish new branches of integration, given the need - and there are needs - in too many schools. The special treatment is not dissolved, but a concept of ghettoization of children with disabilities outside the school is dissolved, in a room next to or in special schools away from the schools that exist for the rest of the children. It is therefore a battle for equality within school. We will train teachers, create conditions for special education teachers to intervene positively in the room, where there will be children with small and medium-sized problems and, of course, not in heavy cases, who need to be in special schools. In there the child will understand that he is not on the margin and the children who have no special treatment problems will understand the value in diversity. I therefore repeat that we are not abolished, but we are upgrading the special treatment. The inclusion sections, where necessary, will be and will be part of the integration rather than de mobilising and marginalising children with disabilities. I note that many parents refuse to send their children to the accession departments, assuming that this creates a certain stigmatisation and brings a responsible statement. Thousands of children with problems, who need some support from special treatment teachers, are thus in rooms without help, so there are serious issues that you all understand. Now all children will be able to enjoy the necessary special treatment. The third category of provisions concerns the Open University. The relevant Deputy Minister, Ms. Anagnostopoulou, will be mentioned later. I'm standing on one point: we're opening the Open University. Finishing the draw story, as we've had it so far. We open it and open the circle of people who can take the teaching. We will place emphasis on children, postdoctorals, who are currently in unemployment, highly qualified, and we would just like there to be a situation of double and triple professional exploitation of already serving university teachers. Fourthly, it is the second chance schools, which we want to operate everywhere. In prisons there is already a very good experience, but not only there, but wherever we think this is necessary. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To conclude, I would like to say that in these days we have been adequately faced with the problems of the functioning of the school in difficult budgetary conditions and with a visible demand and the possibility of meeting it, for the first time after five years, a process of appointment of permanent teachers. Without the appointment of permanent teachers, schools will be difficult to run in September. I'm talking about uninterrupted operation in September. This is the battle we are fighting as a Ministry of Education and as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u501	Please, shorten up. Talk for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u502	Yes, Mr. President. Apart from this, we are also facing the problems arising from the refugee crisis. New children come in, unaccompanied or accompanied, and there is a need for them to be able to join, for as long as they stay here, through education, through useful educational processes in our society. I must tell you that we are facing - fortunately by a few, limited powers - a negative climate. We saw in Thessaloniki's Diavatas that some teachers first end up in municipal schools, demanding that they leave or not go to refugees and refugees in the region. I do not want to refer to this matter. I'm talking in general. There is no Greek citizen's right to create such situations as hate rhetoric, intolerance towards people who need us. I would like to say that the Ministry of Education will offer all possible facilities for the integration of these children into the system here, as long as necessary. However, it is not going to close the eyes to the big problem, creating here in our country situations that do not honor Greece. Mytilini shows the way for a decent and democratic approach to the problems that we have in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u503	Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor, and then Mr Chironis for two minutes, because there was a personal mention about an hour ago. Here, Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin by tabling certain legislative improvements. I would like to refer to two. In Article 1, at the end of paragraph 1, after the words ‘as in schools and hospitals’, the following subparagraph is added: ‘In addition, the design of these programmes...’, I refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u505	Madam Minister, these can be tabled without any time to be read. They can be deposited directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u506	All right, Mr. President. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u507	Madam Minister, you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u508	I'll start then a little differently. I have heard suggestions from Mrs Christophilopoulou to Mr Barriots and Mr Brutsi, who have said that in their opinion this bill is inappropriate, but also that we are selling seaweed for silk ribbons. They said we wouldn't affect anyone's life and it's not going to change anything. I shall refer very briefly to three speeches concerning our own portfolio at the Ministry of Labour. You will allow me to begin with the last article, Article 87. Mr Brutsis, who unfortunately just left the Chamber, said that there is the system of 'ERGAN', which is really very important. He asked us why we are at the moment, while there is the 'ERGANI' system, when we are talking about the development and implementation of the labour market diagnosis system, we are setting up something different and, indeed, by tabling this specific action, we have a budget of EUR 300,000. He asked us why we're doing it. So what should I say? Let me say he's continuing conscious - conscious! - distortion of reality and misleading, whenever it refers to such issues as the Ministry of Labour? Here's what the reality is. The system of diagnosing the needs of the labour market is an obligation of the country, is heresy. In other words, if we did not implement it and if we did not complete it, we could not use money from the NSRF, not just us as a ministry, but all the ministries. So we started when we came and found an action plan, which said we need to spend 1 million. I would like to present here the request for funding for 1 million, for the development and implementation of an integrated system for determining the needs of the labour market. Today he told us here that we do not need to develop such a system and that the "ERGANI" system could have done so on its own. So we took 1 million, and said that, despite the fact that it is financed by the ESDP, we will not give it to projects, sub-projects and workers and commissions, we will do so. And we're implementing it. We implement it with the same powers within the Ministry of Labour. Indeed, the EUR 300,000 we have written is EUR 120,000 instead of EUR 300,000 that the plan says yours here, the previous one, so that we can set up an information system, and only EUR 200,000, instead of EUR 1 million, for studies. I am therefore tabling the action plan for the diagnosis of labour market needs that we have not accepted. I am also tabling the request for funding you submitted at the time. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Urania Antonopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Senography and Practices.]] And we say that we have official documents - which I will also state - that in four months' time this government has done what the previous governments have not done in seven years. So we come to hear you say 'walkers for silk ribbons', 'you do nothing', 'these are not necessary'. What we recommended to do in December, which you said at the time, they do not need - something you have repeated all the time - they need, is necessary for our country. I come to Article 85. Article 85, which we have introduced, allows programmes which are supportive of the unemployed, rather than the participants being sent massively and collectively for training, to be able to join the labour market so that those who do not have the first work experience. Also, the unemployed who enter these programmes will go not only exclusively and exclusively to private companies, but also to social cooperatives. The third article I wanted to talk about is Article 1, which - I repeat - is supposed to be 'emals for silk ribbons'. What's Article 1 doing? Article 1 - also applies to public work - clears the employment rights of the beneficiaries participating in the programme and lays down the rules to be complied with so that their health and safety is ensured. It also provides for an additional pay for the night work of the unemployed participating in these programmes and running. As we will be announcing very soon, such a programme will support and contribute to hot spots and hospitality centres. Along with all our other fellow citizens who have shown their solidarity, they will be actively involved, so that we can tackle the difficult problem we have in our hands at this time. I would again like to repeat that this legislation for some people does not need to. So the improvements we need to make, so that we do not have accidents at work within public work, you consider them unnecessary. We do not regard them as unnecessary. We consider them essential. And we say that, in order to continue the work of our Government, we must bring about changes that improve the conditions of our fellow citizens. And that's what we're gonna do. You didn't want us to spend it in December, you don't want us to go through it now. We're going through this and we're going to keep going and we're going to finish. And at some point it will be time to explain our work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much, Mrs Antonopoulou. You've been perfect in time. Mr. Chironis will give details on a personal matter. Mr. Chironi, please have two minutes, not more. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to speak because I think the provision, which is being abolished, is self-evident. Unfortunately, however, Mr Constantinople's position and just a moment ago the representative of the Golden Dawn obliges me to take the floor. One side accuses me of destroying PPP projects, of destroying waste management, of drowning people from garbage and playing hard with interests. The other side accuses me of being with interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u511	Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u512	So listen, ladies and gentlemen, and listen to both Greeks and Greeks - what is the provision that is being abolished? It says, therefore, that ‘The responsibilities of CVO, entrusted to another legal person in accordance with the provisions...’, etc., are still exercised by it for as long as the contract in question is provided for.’. This for the Peloponnese means for about twenty-eight years. It says, however, for this legal person, which is only for one region - especially for the Peloponnese, that is to say - "... or the entity to which these responsibilities have been delegated shall also have the powers to determine the contributions and charges of the relevant municipalities and their collection." So what does this provision, the 'good', say to us? And if you really have the bravery, why don't they apply it to the rest of Greece? Why is the project sustainable, for example, in western Macedonia, where this provision does not apply, or in Epirus, where this provision does not apply? It says very simply that in the Peloponnese - especially in the Peloponnese - for the next twenty-eight years the municipalities will not decide on them by the municipalities, they will be decided by the regional government. It's a photographic device for the Peloponnese. So if you are defending it, gentlemen, why don't you bring it for the rest of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u513	Thank you. The explanations have been given. Please listen to the speakers. Immediately after the speech will Members of Parliament, Mr. Lagos, Mr. Jellonis, Mr. Charakopoulos, Mr. Mitatakis, Mr. Tasoulos and Mr. Koutsoukos. Next, Mr. Paulakis, Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Danellis, Parliamentary Representative of the Potamio, Mr. Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mrs. Fotou, Deputy Minister of Labour, Mrs. Vultesis, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, Mrs. Kerameos, Mrs. Vaki, Mr. Emmanoulidis, Mr. Papadopoulos Sakis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. With Mr Karathanasopoulos the circle of parliamentary representatives is closed. That's what I imagine will be done in about an hour and a half from now, if I calculated correctly. It could be in two. Then they will speak five, six MPs and two ministers until late at night. The prediction is that we will get to 1.30' or 2.00' the hour after midnight - to know - to speak as many as possible. Mr. Rabbit has the floor. After Mr. Rabbit, we'll start with seven minutes. You're the last eight minutes. It will not be reduced, that is, under seven minutes, because we said that tomorrow speakers from Members will not be present. Moreover, for the articles, one today can use one or two minutes to place it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, Mr President. So we have come here today to discuss what the government calls 'parallel measures', for this bill, to discuss the best possible response to the crisis faced by the Greek citizen, to the best deal we should have as a state. But really, what state is there at the moment? I would like to ask this question to those Members who are here, but also to the whole world who is listening to Parliament's plenary right now. What is the Greek state that exists when Greece has granted its territorial waters, has it granted its borders to keep us Americans and Turks? What are the territorial sovereign rights of our country, which the Greek Government and the Greek Parliament can now defend? What is the independent Greek state, when Greece does not have to pay, when they lend us money, when, to move on, we have to get borrowed? Tell us about it! So what do you want to do here? Do you want us to get bored with what you're doing or blame you and the previous ones for getting home? And tell me all of you who are here - and you feel proud of some who are bringing these measures, some of you are questioning them and allegedly fighting them, but you voted five, six months ago, and you will vote again if you become a government - does anyone think that we here as a Greek parliament can operate autonomously? Can the Greek Parliament - and I ask anyone, the ministers who are here, anyone who wants to answer me - take steps, pass laws and bills on its own, without obtaining the approval of the international loan sharks, without getting the approval of those who have reached us here that have been oppressed for so many years? I challenge the government and today's Opposition to come to a law - and we will vote for it and support it no matter what it is - which is against what Europeans say. The Europeans, who see Greece decline, see Greece die, get bored. The Europeans have led Greece here, but not, on their own, but through the Trojan horse called the Greek Parliament and the Greek Parliament. Because the impoverishment of the Greek people has taken place in a period of at least forty years, with laws that were passed from here. And now none of the national priests came out to say, "Do you know what? Wrong! We have done damage to our country, but at least the mistake was unfavorable, we did not want it." I personally think it wasn't just a mistake, but a deliberate plan. And that's the wrath, that's where the indignation breaks out! Because if we just judge that some operate on the basis of the programming error, we can accept it and forgive it. But not the organized plan that exists at the expense of our country. So tell me what this Greek Parliament can do here if the Prime Minister of Greece and the so-called ministers are not going to get approval from the European Union? Tell me about it! What bill can you come here and vote for it? Look and answer that. The European Union's submissives, that's how they got us! And whoever dares and reacts, whoever dares to say a word is absurd, they're fascists, they're tramps, they're not sure what, while those who bend the head are good ramps, who agree, they're the good guys in the system! I have already heard here the tragic Minister of Education complain that some teachers and our young people in Diavata have reacted to the fact that another centre of illegal immigrants is going to become and they are going to Islamize our country. He's protesting about it, and he's bothering him. But he does not complain, and he does not mind at all that at the 79th Municipal Elementary of Sepolis a day or two ago the little children had put on and glorified Allah, they prayed to Allah. The Minister of Education has not been disturbed about this. Instead, we are very proud of those children who reacted to Diabetes and teachers. I wish our country had such teachers and such youths that it will react in the face of what is happening to us. We were talking about NGOs before and we were talking about them. It is the NGOs that you have been supporting for so many years. These NGOs involve many of your own people, indirectly or directly. These NGOs have been put in the unavoidable situation and you have been giving them millions of euros for so many years to silence them. These NGOs are the ones we have learned - but they have become garrisons from all - that they are going to the sensitive area of Alexandroupolis and are looking to find Greek homes to install eighty-six thousand illegal immigrants. They are the same MKOs that come out and rejoice and tell us that in the districts and districts of the 2nd Piraeus, in Perama, in Keratini, in Tabouri, in Korydalos, in Nice, in areas of Athens downgraded, in Kipseli, in Sepolis, they also look for homes to install illegal immigrants. When Golden Dawn yelled at them and said them a few years ago, we were graphical. In fact, we were the ones who didn't say so well and we were in danger. Unfortunately, things are coming as we said. The camps are closing us to host illegal immigrants, our homes are getting them, to host illegal immigrants, and in schools young children learn to pray to Allah. So we will tell the Minister, Phile, that for this Greece, which they are going to do so, we are ashamed of Greece and not of Greece that reacts, not of Greece of Kos, of the Diabetes and of all other regions, which are fighting for Greece to remain Greek. So we saw what humiliating point we've reached when the Greek Prime Minister himself wants to make a flight with the Prime Minister plane and the Turks tell him "you're not going to Rhodes". And instead of being ashamed of this thing, instead of pulling the ear of Erdogan's sultan, who thinks he can do whatever he wants, this submissive of the new order of things stirs his head hunger and leaves. Isn't that what you're hurting? What's going on in our homeland is all right? What, though, can you expect from a Prime Minister who, at his international meetings, slap him in the cheeks? This is the process that we are living in today. This is the Greece that you want to do and that is the Greece that we want to avoid and react in order to get away with! We saw "good" laws and "good" bills passed: coexistence pact, citizenship for anyone who comes to our country. Now we've had the cremation of the dead. We are reaching a point where we are firing critical blows to our Orthodoxy, to our religion that keeps us united and is a link for our country centuries now. We slowly move, which we want to leave and unchristianize our country. We will try to wake up the Greek citizen and react to what is happening. Because the majority of our Greek compatriots don't want all this stuff. I would like to finish - there are a lot of things I wanted to say, but, unfortunately, I do not have time to give an answer to the Chief of HNDGS, who was misunderstood a few days ago, because we told traitors. Well, for us, the Minister of National Defense right now and the government, which supports him, are betrayal. He has granted the border of our country. This doesn't mean that Golden Dawn has any problem with them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Rabbit, please. I'm removing your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u516	Why do you take my word away?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u517	Because you have said things unauthorized for a second continuous day. In fact, you're being said on purpose to cause an incident in the Chamber. It's unacceptable that phrase about traitors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u518	It is my view, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u519	It's not a matter of opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u520	It's my opinion. Don't I have a right? Does your democracy not give me the right to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u521	...for the leadership of the Armed Forces...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u522	I don't have the right to say if I disagree with someone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u523	...and for the government, for elected people and tested, it's a huge mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u524	We don't have them with the leadership of the Armed Forces and don't falsify what I'm saying! I don't have the leadership of the Armed Forces. I have them with the Minister, this donor, who delivers our country with 1.5%. He's the one I got!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u525	I repeat that the ministers and those present are all elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u526	It's a lie to say that Golden Dawn has it with the Armed Forces! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Golden Dawn supports Armed Forces...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u527	I'm removing your word. Stop, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u528	Golden Dawn MPs have served in the Armed Forces. And, if need be, we'll be right next to them again to honor our blue-white and homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u529	Please, I'm taking away your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u530	And as for you who have taken the floor, Mr President, I really did not expect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u531	I'm removing your word!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u532	This, however, shows how tolerant you are in what you say 'democracy' and how you do not tolerate any more voices! Nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u533	You're very welcome. We do not accept lessons of democracy, Mr Rabbit, from those who systematically take the democratic process into this Chamber - I repeat - have trampled it down. And you know it perfectly. You know that what was done the other day has taken its course, in order to make a recommendation from the Legal Committee on whether or not to a secret meeting of the Standing Committee on Defence with the highest leadership of the Armed Forces, it is possible in any way to share and reproduce at national level. That's what happened. I don't want to describe them. It's ingrained, literally! That you chose today to bring back...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u534	But at the moment, Mr President, you are obsessed because I did not film anything at the moment. I said my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u535	...the phrase about traitors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u536	Yeah, he's a traitor to me! He's a traitor to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u537	...it's absolutely...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u538	Do I have the right to say it? He's a traitor! The Minister of National Defence is a traitor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u539	No, you don't have the right to say it. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u540	I don't have the right to say it? Is that your democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u541	No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u542	Is this democracy, which is forbidden to say what I think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u543	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u544	The Minister of National Defence is a traitor and does things contrary to what...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u545	Mr. Rabbit, do you understand what you're doing right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u546	What, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u547	This phrase, the bishop, the hybridism, refers to elected representatives of the people, to a government that has taken the vote of confidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u548	This is where you put us in jail! You had us with the handcuffs and you're gonna tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u549	...and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u550	I did not find anyone in the Armed Forces, Mr President, and you know it very well. I didn't find anyone! I've called the Minister a traitor, and I'm telling you again! And you can sue me again and put me back in jail! Let's put me back in jail!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u551	Your behaviour is politically ill another thirty times, as you have said. And you know it perfectly, because you do it on the ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u552	You stopped me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u553	Please leave and delete these words about traitors from the Minutes. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u554	Why would they be deleted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u555	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u556	Why would they be deleted? Why? Because I told the traitor, a traitor? He's a traitor! And shut us back in!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u557	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u558	He's a traitor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u560	No, Mr. Panayotus! You're very welcome. It was a collective process in which, through your representative, Mr Rabbit, you insisted. He didn't get what he said. He repeated it twenty times. It is obvious that you have systematically prepared today’s challenge. It is the second challenge in Parliament in the last three days. Take your measures and democracy will take its own!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u562	You're very welcome. No, you can't! Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u563	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u564	I'm removing your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u565	This is not a democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u566	Madam President, on the request of democracy, not only cannot such things be said, but such methods cannot be followed. You have to understand it once!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u567	Mr President, give us a list of what we're allowed to say, so we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u568	Of course! You know it perfectly well and you have often followed it. Please, too! The traitors in this country that has been through, you realize that it is the greatest, it is the peak of shameless - politically, I repeat - conduct in the Chamber. You're very welcome. Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to add that this democracy, which some deny, is the one that gives them the step of free speech. But Greek citizens now know how to judge from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill under discussion you are trying to convince us of your so-called left social sensitivity. This sensitivity, however, must be judged daily in your political practical function in terms of solutions to the problems. Today we have the entire rural world to protest, claiming its right, cultivating the land, living in the Greek region and its villages. On the other hand, we have issues that remain without solutions being given. There are thousands of tobacco producers in northern Greece who are currently unpaid by a manufacturing tobacco company. Why don't you keep on the Ministry's side of Joint Ministerial Decision 238/19130, which in 30 days had to pay? And he owes the authorities... Mr President, may I have some silence on the government's side? The tobacco producers in Northern Greece have received a total of - listen, Mr - 12 million. And we are talking about tobacco growers who have monocultures. They have no more income. What is the Ministry doing? With this industry, Mr Michaelides, I had a meeting yesterday - public relations - and in the Minutes I put the Agriculture Ministry's press release, in which there is no answer for the tampering, what procedures, when tobacco producers will be paid, because legislation is not being applied. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Mikhail Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, 10 billion more have been received by customs producers for 2015 crops. They're coming in to cultivate. They already had to cultivate, sow the beet for the new year, but the customs producers today are unpaid. On the other hand, we are coming to the House today and we have this parallel programme, as you are proud to say, which, since December, which was first tabled to the House, exceeded the urgency character, is today presented as a panacea, but it is probably the treasure's carbon. One could easily claim that we now have the parallel 'parliamentary work', parallel negotiations, parallel currency, parallel universe, but only for 'logues' and relatives. This bill is the most tangible proof that coexistence is once again trying to trick Greek citizens with greetings and fairy tales. He attempts to communicate despair and misery. "My old-fashioned sieve" you'll tell me, though. To be clearer and more specific, I will make a few comments. Observation one. Title of the bill: ‘Measures to speed up the government's work...’. What project exactly? Your ruffles? The strengthening of your party state, your party clientele, your syndicate logic, the lack of contact with reality? There is nothing to say about reform, development, initiatives and draft legislation in this direction. What is your innovation on the big and hot issues of the country? What, in the end, is your legislative proposal for all this, which will relieve Greeks of the sufferings of the crisis? In fact, have you ensured funding to promote the above-mentioned measures provided for in the bill? In the insurance that you are promoting, you triple the contributions to free professionals and farmers, you reduce pensions, and here you have the margin to recruit. Observation 2. The parliamentary implementation of the amendment really goes on and on in an unsatisfactory manner. Is it possible when they were applied to the minimum in the past and were you constantly condemning them? I would also like to remind you of the Prime Minister's statements on a parliamentary coup. Today this is the usual practice of legislating from the "second time left" of power. You ask us, after us, to show consensus when we have experienced in this Chamber, for these few processes, lessons of democracy. Now I'm going through the general philosophy of the bill. The whole bill gives me the impression, despite its positive provisions, that it attempts to win the battle of impressions internally. Since you take daily blows abroad, you think it is right on the inside to bring non-costed bills, which I doubt - with the general political and economic situation - if they are to be implemented as a whole, to convince your party audience that something is going on, that something is going on, that something is going on, that something is going on, and that it is also to be done to get your parliamentary group to him against that insurance person you are going to vote on in the next few days. What you are doing, however, is fully confirmed in Articles 59 and 61 in relation to the reforms for the Ministry of Health, which you are once again setting up a party control over the health system. So, why are you trying to convince us when health intermediaries and health service coordinators are persons of the Minister's choice? Also, your legislative innovation in this bill is obvious. So you want to tell us that the health coverage of uninsured persons is your discovery? That to date our hospitals and doctors have driven out uninsured patients, or have the anti-poverty structures and public-private work programmes also your work? Didn't the fact that the structures workers have been unpaid for six months have it noisy? Is that your left social sensitivity? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would like to say that you accept the proposal - and I shall end, Mr President, in twenty seconds - from the Democratic Reconciliation, as has been said, on the guaranteed social income and on the strengthening of social protection and integration, which is an overall proposal which concerns primarily social issues. The social tolerance, as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Members of the Chamber of Deputies, of almost all the social groups that react to many parts of the country, has already been exhausted. Today you are trying to introduce yourself as the parade of the poor, while you have been deprived of your easily antimony speech. But you are not even convincing, because the misledness of society in words and wishes is not going for long, and unfortunately there is no room for other mutations for you anymore. But under no circumstances should the deadlocks of your own coexistence become national, institutional, social and economic deadlocks of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and two educational sessions from Drama General School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u571	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u572	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u573	Mr President, could you tell us something about the development of the process tomorrow? We learn that the summit is prolonging. So something has to change, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u574	First of all, tonight we're going late, at least until 1.30 minutes after midnight. As far as I understand it, and from what I have heard in the bulletin, Mr Loverdos, you can reserve a reservation and I will consult the President - it seems that the summit is continuing on account of the British issue. That means that the Prime Minister will not be here late tonight, he will probably be coming tomorrow morning, so tomorrow we will start at 10.00, as we said, with the right to speak on the articles and on the amendments by the rapporteurs, the speakers, the parliamentary representatives, and I assume that from 12.00 am noon and then the Heads will speak. Keep this with one reservation and before I come down from the Chair I will consult and inform the Chamber. That was a wholesale briefing. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left is not renowned for its special relationship with realism, which is why it is hard to land in the painful reality. The length of the theoretical approaches with its policy are today experienced by Members who are confronted with the reactions of social groups who protest because they have been deceived from the Left. Indeed, the Government Representative has for the first time discovered a diversion against MPs, perhaps because it now happens to be members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, when condemning violence, pre-conflicts by political opponents and hooliganism in the public debate is not like-minded and without asterisks, the monster of populism in the end will bite those who excite it. Of course, you did the impossible: you sought to activate social automation by turning one social group towards the other, but eventually you managed to unite the " tie movement" with the tractors of rural anger. Unfortunately, Mr Apostle, if no one lives the worst, he does not realize the value of what he had. Ladies and gentlemen, since the abolition of the memorandum with a law and an article in Genares, we have spent September in the parallel programme and the equivalents, which would cure every painful measure of the third memorandum brought by the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. The way in which it was submitted and withdrawn, after the Troika had been demanded, is indicative of the inadequacy and carelessness with which the Government is legislating. I would remind you that there was not even a costing of the measures from the General Accounting Office of the State. In my time, Mr President, I will try to clarify the arrangements of the draft law on education. The government has, by a celebrity, announced the conduct of a national dialogue on education. From the outset, there have been reservations from representatives of education that this dialogue is pre-formative, fragmentary and alibi to impose preconceived decisions. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that you are doing everything you can to confirm these objections and ultimately undermine our own participation in dialogue. Inappropriately, without any consultation, you are putting forward fragmentary arrangements, for which there is no urgency. If these are part of the SYRIZA government's programme, which is determined to implement anyway, why is dialogue? Let me become more specific. Firstly, the strengthening of weak pupils within the public education system with compensatory education is intended to prevent dissipation, that is to say, not to leave the weak children at school. Today these programmes are of even greater value, as more and more families, due to a crisis, are unable to provide additional support to their children outside the structures of public education. This year, then, at the peak of the crisis, we would expect the government, in the words of social sensitivity, to have taken all the necessary steps to ensure that the Support Programmes and Additional Teaching Support are in place in time. Unfortunately, at the moment we are talking about, we do not have aid programmes for weak pupils. She's staying to see if there's gonna be a lot of weeks. But when we have already spent most of the school year, I fear that it will be a gift free. Secondly, the arrangements for the Open University, following on from those that came by the Act of Legislative Content - and I would remind you that the legislative acts you complained of as coup d'états - should come as an overall proposal to upgrade the institution. You are also following the logic of the patches here. And with these last-minute patches, you're opening up big issues. I mention, for example, the broadening of the responsibilities of the appointed Management Committee of the OSH, which goes beyond and elected the Senate, deciding on how students should choose, without insurers for equal access and objectivity of the selection system, which was ensured by the draw. What really hides the ability of the administrator to change the composition of the ESDP Special Accounts Management Committee? Thirdly, at a time when the call for transparency and good management is universal, it causes the provision that abolishes offences, for which a member of the PPP is obliged to refrain from carrying out his duties, such as fraud and crimes relating to the Office. Moreover, what is the service of creating a new generation of contractors to the cleanliness of universities? Because this will allow for the transfer of funds from the ordinary budget to clean-up services from the Senates to the Institutions' Management and Skilling Companies for recruitment of fixed-term staff. Fourthly, the arrangements for the sensitive area of special education, involving more than 10% of the general school population, come without any dialogue, surpriseing the education community and parents negatively. In particular, changes in the accession departments, in the name of strengthening the accession status of education, cannot be fragmented, with recesses, in the absence of the scientific community calling for its withdrawal. This paragraph actually equates the two institutions, namely the accession section and parallel support. As a result, the educational community is concerned. Such serious issues, which concern thousands of children and their families, can only go through the suffering of consultation and dialogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that all this, and particularly the distrust of the educational community, would have been resolved if the government respected the national dialogue on education and legislation on the basis of its findings. This tactic of the Ministry of Education, in particular, to legislate on matters of a lack of urgency, while dialogue is taking place, it violates all ethics and it does not honour its leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u576	Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for a minute, to say your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u577	It is an amendment concerning the application of the public procurement system. As you know, a full bill is being prepared for all public procurement. So far there have been deferrals. The latter expires on 29-2-2016. It is proposed that the single plan for all public procurement, works, services and goods should be extended until 30-4-2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u578	Thank you. Mr Notis Metarakis has the floor, then Mr Tassoulos, Mr Koutsoukos, followed by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis. Mr. Metarakis, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u579	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current government was elected in January 2015 to bring Greece back to prosperity by abolishing the memorandum, deleting the public debt, increasing incomes, supporting the weakest classes, the "first time left", the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the "Thessaloniki program". What was the result? We're all experiencing it. Closed banks, return to recession, dozens of billions lost for the state, new taxes, new cuts, third memorandum. Sustainable social policy, announced by the government, ladies and gentlemen, requires a sustainable economy. It requires development. It requires investments. It requires new jobs. The Minister for Health said before that this is a basic ideological difference between the government and the Civilian Representation, that we need, he says, surpluses, to make social policy. This is not just an ideological difference. It's a substantial difference. Without resources, without economic growth, we cannot protect the weakest social classes in practice. Let's look at the results. There's now material to make comparisons. You've been government over a year. The Samara government was able in 2014 to allocate 0.5 billion euros as a social dividend to our fellow citizens who needed it. He was able to legislate the minimum guaranteed income, the most substantial reform in the welfare state, while the Tsipras government promised tens of billions, legislated only for 200 million and finally managed by the 2015 deficit to give only 108 million and for 2016 to budget under 100 million. This, ladies and gentlemen, in practice, proves that in an economy, which with idealities returns to recession, you cannot unfortunately exercise a social policy for the Greek people. Corridia, fail! And now? Now we are listening to a new tax raid against everything, even though the previous one, the 2015 tax raid did not pay off. With more taxes we have received less and simply increased the debts to the state. The world is now in front of you, because you kept your vote with lies, just like that. Ladies and gentlemen, many members who support the government are now basing behind the argument 'yes, we may not have told all the truth in January, but in September the world knew, as a result, the truth'. But they forget that in the September elections the big promises changed their name. It was no longer called "Thessaloniki programme", but it was called "a parallel programme", which would neutralize all the negative effects of the third memorandum. We wouldn't have reduced pensions, we wouldn't have lowered wages, but thanks to the parallel program the world would have had a better time. Let's see the numbers. The 2015 recession only costs 1,8 billion. The crisis of immigration costs 1.4 billion, according to government estimates. In total, therefore, only of these two, we are talking about over 3 billion. And why are we talking today, ladies and gentlemen? Are we talking about 100 million? Is that the parallel program? Is that what you promised the Greek people? Is that going to face all the problems in the world? Is this going to relieve us of pension cuts, tax increases, the 100 million that we are debating today, or some rhysphetological uptakes that are technically included in the bill? We are discussing a draft law with an ingenuity title, an original title: "Measures to speed up the government's work...". However, with a simple reading it is understood that what we are discussing today is not an antidote to the memorandum, it is not an integrated draft. It doesn't actually affect anyone. No objectives, no analysis, no budget. We are talking about a summation of unrelated regulations, which could have been submitted separately. Several of these proposals can be accepted. Several of these proposals are important. This is the key message, and that is why the New Democracy will vote against this draft law at first, because it is not what you promised the Greek people. SYRIZA wrote in September that in its new programme, SYRIZA committed itself to implementing a parallel programme in relation to the agreement, with a double objective: firstly, to alleviate the consequences for the wages and unemployed, the self-employed and the retired and, secondly, to strengthening the position of these strata, both politically and economically, so as to pave the way for the decommissioning of neoliberalism and the monumental policy of austerity. Of course none of this exists in the draft law. One cannot talk about a philosophical policy, when it is about imposing more taxes, cutting off insurance rights again, increasing contributions, cutting off the ESA and demolishing the ESA and taking measures - and that is, ladies and gentlemen, the most essential thing - that 12 months ago we did not discuss or need to be discussed. We pay the ideas of the Left, which an economy that had returned to the recovery, brought it back to the recession, an economy that had started to create jobs this year, not to have seen a new substantial investment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u580	Thank you, Mr Mitarakis, for the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and their educational sessions from Drama General School. Drama has her honor today! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Constantine Tasoulas has the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u581	Mr President, we are discussing today under the false title concerning measures to speed up government activity, the falsification of SYRIZA's programme, which, from the EUR 11.5 billion of the announcement by Prime Minister Tsipras in Thessaloniki, has hardly shrinked to the 110 million of the report of the General Accounting Office of the State of this bill. "So the ruptured sprinkler has become a watermelon, "Ministers. The word was broken and the watermelon became a drip. This poster of the social programme of SYRIZA and this rupture of the programme of Thessaloniki is being called upon today by the government to appear before the Greek people like breathing and disobeying the sufferings that have actually devoured him for the past five years. However, it is worth wondering because in this crisis, in this pile with the broken images of your own unsuccessful policy, you are trying so artificially and desperately, once again, to do something that you know well, that is, to mock the Greek people, once again, but there is not this next time. Let's see this stack of broken images that you've caused the Greek people, the Greek society and the nation of the Greeks and in which you're trying to overthrow things with this supposedly parallel program. Even Albania these days cause our country unanswered. The Albanians are threatening the Northcontinental by depriving the right to vote and the proud left government is silent. Albania resorts to a European court in order to claim the so-called rights of the Chemistry and the Greek Government, the "first time left", silently. Turkey forbids the Greek Prime Minister to land the Prime Minister plane in Rhodes and the government, through the Minister of National Defence, responds: "Yes, we did not land it in Rhodes, but we rubbed them in the face of the fact that we did not go to Bondrum, which they indicated to us." It is one thing and another. The government refused to land the PM plane in Rhodes at the request of Turkey! Do you understand that? And it goes on to say that this is balanced by the fact that he did not hear Turkey land it and refuel it at a Turkish airport. This stack of broken images continues around us, with the very dangerous to national issues - and yet an answer has not yet been made to ensure them - the behaviour of the government, because of its delayed reaction to the immigration issue, to invoke - who? - the government, which brought NATO to an end to NATO's decommissioning aid to address the national issue of the refugee problem in the Aegean. And we have not yet seen NATO's action plan in the Aegean, which, in the assurance, only of the Minister of National Defence, will safeguard Greek sovereign rights. Greek sovereign rights, however, I would remind you that they are questioned by Turkey. Turkey does not accept ten miles of air space. He does not accept the research and rescue area of the Athens FIR. And I would be glad if the government would enforce these rights through a naval mission in the Aegean Sea. I'm not saying that to accuse you of moderation or treason. I don't have your own reflexes, and I don't understand your behavior. I understand that these must be safeguarded, you must safeguard them, and that will appear in practice when we see NATO's migration plan implemented on the Aegean Sea. At the same time, the government, which shows the drip and the stutter for a humanitarian programme, is engaged in dramatic cartoons of vengeance in the Greek Police. And if the example of the head of the Service against Electronic Crime is characteristic, I will add another equally embarrassing example of the government, an example of the retiring of an excellent officer, Mr. Stavropoulou, who has been exemplaryly confronted with the common crime, clarifying kidnappings, homicides, blackmails, corruption crimes, an officer "god" for the country and the Greek Police, whom you avengetably and pettyly sent to his home. As an epitome, I mention this case of this vengeance and this unprecedented partyism, which has stumbled against the Security Bodies against the Greek Police to enforce your own people. This situation doesn't save her any supposedly parallel program. It is an unharmed and poor attempt to convince the Greek voters, who have been "tracking them" over the last time, that you have been faithful to your announcements. Only the General Accounting Office of the State shows how much you're experts in lies. The 11 billion of Thessaloniki is barely 110 million euros, according to the General Accounting Office of the State in the bill that we are voting on today. This is the situation and this is the artificial effort you are making. Like today, ladies and gentlemen, sixty years ago a self-creating political man - then the "autonomous" was not a criminal offence, then it was allowed, then we made it a criminal offence -, Constantine Karamanlis, won his first elections and managed, ruling the country for eight years, to get Greece out of Psorocotina's dance and make it a modern country. I would remind you that in 1956, where this leading form, the historical form of Greece, was chosen, the country was in political instability. Over the past ten years, he had twenty-five governments, and since then he has been on a different path. He abolished Psoroccostanna and kept his promise, which he had given on 19 February 1956 by this Stepma, that this country can change its form and its people can change fate. Karamanlis changed both the form of the country and the fate of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u582	Mr. Tasoula, please, close!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u583	It is obvious that today, too, this country can change its form and its people can change fate. This presupposes that we finish with the swan song of postpopulation and the swan song of populism. And this swan song of populism and post-population is SYRIZA, who leaps out of the country's governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u584	I would ask Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos to rise to Step. Next is the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis. Until my dear colleague has arrived, I would like to say that I have been informed by police that there are two crosses in Mr Stavropoulos's file. This means to the police two well-known remarks from two different Presidents of the Republic, one from a young age and the other euphoric reference, when he arrested the kidnappers of the known shipowner. You have the floor, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a normal country, a country that is moving forward, must have at the heart of its attention and its priorities the people who are suffering, the poor, the despised, to deal with the problems of the inequalities created by the way the goods are produced and distributed, namely the capitalist system. I would say that in Europe there have been policies that have made it stand out from all the other cultures, which have come here very late in the 1980s, when for the first time the social state was formed, with major changes and reforms, which have a name and identity. One could refer to the ESS, health centres, EEA, the CFP, the CDP, the 'Help at Home' programme, a thousand so many others. I would also like to add that at the time of the crisis, this faction, whether it was alone or when it was necessarily with New Democracy, has promoted policies that were in the centre of man, which were tested by the crisis. It was our choice to proceed with the pilot program for the minimum guaranteed income. This was a policy which, if the country had not been overturned, today would have been an integrated policy. In any case, the government that succeeded us - because we have democracy and with the people's vote - could take all the work, the positive elements of this programme, the evaluation that has been carried out and present it as an integrated policy, in order to address the problems of those people who are most in need and, above all, to give them a chance of reintegration into work, because no prosperous social policy must create people who are permanently on the sidelines. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Not only did it not happen, but there is an attempt to reduce all the policies of the previous period, because there have also been individual policies. There was, in other words, the policy that satisfied our six hundred thousand poorer citizens with the social dividend or the policy that met forty-three thousand families with the feeding programmes. There was the social invoice policy for six hundred and fifty thousand families. All this is flattered, as if it never existed. The government is now coming to say that it has a policy of overcoming the so-called 'parallel programme', which solves all the citizens' problems. First of all, we need to consult ourselves on this: a normal country does not need programmes. A normal country has policies for society through organised structures and integrated programmes. Mrs Fotou told us the other day when we criticised her because, with the act of legislation, she brought some of these regulations and went through with the Christmas and the New Year's Act, that she received the books of Fremick. Well, it's not the Freudian booklets, Ms. Fotio. It's Freudy's books you guys are doing now. It's just, it's in electronic form, because technology has moved on, but the seasons too. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u586	I didn't say that, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u587	Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko. Personals, when it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u588	Why, then, ladies and gentlemen, does a government come to make this parallel programme? It does so because it enclosed the country in a three-year memorandum and overthrowed an exit course that was on track - with its problems, with its difficulties, with the undermining even of our partners who said "we want to talk to the mediterraneans, because we do not trust you that you will take additional measures in the summer of 2015, if the program does not come out" - and was undermined by Mr. Tsipras' choice to become a Prime Minister soon. So, this course has been reversed and after it has arrived at nothing and has been enclaved into a disgraceful and laudable memorandum, it has the need for a parallel programme to convince its voters and its executives that it is doing something different. I wish, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that this parallel programme will give you the fuel to come out, because I fear you will find it very difficult to get into the next piece of legislation. I wish he could rally this parallel program and give you powers. The substance, however, is, on the basis of mathematics, as an excellent mathematician we have in our parliamentary group, reminded me that when you multiply any result with zero, the result is zero again. Zero is zero, anything! So you're going to redistribute some of what's going on and say you're going to solve the problems. Well, you don't solve any problems, they're some crumbs! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And because we also voted for the humanitarian crisis bill, making you the same criticism, we say that a man may benefit. I wish! The point is, however, that you cannot currently ideologically ideologicalize individual measures that are not part of a design that takes the country out of the deadlock. The country has too many problems, which you will find in front of you, budgetaryly, macroeconomicly and development. It is characteristic, as Mr Tsakalotos said the other day in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, that the effectiveness of the measures, in other words what we will do in the debate with the institutions, is the effectiveness of the measures. Looks like we don't pay off. And it's also the budget gap until 2018. So we'll meet in front of a new dead end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, in order to close in time, I must say, Mr President, that at some point there were Presidents in this seat you, who, when major amendments of interest came, at the time the House met, told the ministers 'take it back and bring it in with the normal procedure'. So far as we are talking, the government has been bombing us with amendments. And yes, it has been proved by the provision of local government that it has nothing to do with the democratic institutions - it only speaks of its own, and democracy is to respect its institutions and functions - but it has nothing to do with transparency. Please read the amendment from the Ministry of Defence, which can be negotiated without publication of a notice of competition, by way of derogation from any provision. All right! There's emergencies, we understand that. Set a short deadline. Make a rough competition. Transparency status? Where are we? So explain the amendment tabled by Mr Spirtz again today, which reviews the motorway conventions. We gave the Moroccan authorities 300 million additional operating grant the day before yesterday. Now what's he doing with these conventions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u589	Mr. Kutsuko, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u590	I'm done. Can a Member of Parliament understand if we are fighting the interconnected contractors, who also have the media systemics, or have we succeeded - the government I mean - a victory? No one can understand. This, beyond a hit on transparency or on public finances, is also a wound to democracy. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not interested in the way you are legislating. Get him to talk to the regular procedure. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u591	The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u592	It's a speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u593	Mr. Polakis, eight minutes have the ministers, except your minister who had eighteen minutes. It's a deal from the morning you were away. You have eight minutes. Please, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u594	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious from the opinions of colleagues from the opposition that they are in deep ideological, political and entrepreneurial confusion. All the troubles of the place occurred in 2015, after SYRIZA took over, along with the ANELs, the government! Forty years of strife from Transmigration and, five years of memorial service, this year the country was destroyed! This comes out of the locations. What we've been managing for a year in a very hard manner and in an indiscriminate war is where you brought the country. Don't forget that. We did not cut expenditure in a horizontal way 40% over the last year. We did not lead to unemployment, we did not reach 25.5%. Where's Mr. Metarakis? This year it dropped 1.5%, based on ELSTAT's latest data. But he doesn't say that, he doesn't see it. So we can come to our senses. I'm going to the uninsured issue. After having voted for it all, ladies and gentlemen, then why did the social doctors and pharmacies blossom all over Greece? Since the 2014 ministerial decisions were also in 2011 and 2012 and 2013, you have solved everything, why until today are we getting problems created in hospitals with the inability to treat uninsured people? And that's what you say on the one hand, on the other hand, you say that with what you do where you get the money? You decide whether to'solve it all' or 'where to find the money'. Decide. You haven't solved it, and you know it very well. And the reason you hadn't solved is what you were hiding and there was in ministerial decisions, which were neither publicised nor disseminated nor went out. We also prepared a ministerial decision from February - March, but it wanted legislative powers to be voted on, so unfortunately we are now so late, despite the fact that we have given a political mandate as well as a previous leadership, and as yet to cover these people. What you had done was that you had to go through a three-member committee and sign - but you did not say that, Mr Voridis, because you know from an old syndicate - a declaration of debt acceptance that this hospital will go to tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u595	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u596	That's right, so we don't work here. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that's why people didn't go. Neither were you excluded from the five - year - old, nor could they do laboratory and exams on public primary health structures, as they can do now. We believe that this will be the expenditure. It's obvious that we have a worthwhile difference. You bet now on this racist, let's say it, standard, that if immigrants come and everything else. Don't worry. The majority of refugees are a healthy population. He's passing by and going upstairs. But whoever needs help, yes, we'll offer it to them. As it is offered by the Mytilians, who save so many people every day and make us candidates for the Nobel Peace with this logic. That's the way things are, we have a worthwhile difference. Bet your bets and pinch a bite by the voters of the Golden Dawn with the logic: "If only Greeks will pay the refugee's hospitality." Let us come to our senses, because that logic is dangerous and stop it. Let's go down. We fired two and a half thousand primary doctors in seven days? We've broken up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u597	What are you going to do with the others now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u598	Wait, you'll see what we do. We told them within seven days: 'or do you close it or leave?' Who did this? Isn't the break-up of primary health in the country name? Doesn't your government and the Minister have your predecessor, who was then in this position? And you come out now, and you say the primary school's broken up. This is what we are going to save and give - and you do not say - to those who have chosen, the one thousand two, to close their doctors and enter full-time and full-time in the ESS, complete graduation and wage simulation with the doctors of the ESS, so that it is a sign that yes, we will strengthen it, so that others can choose this employment relationship from those who are either judicially or are outside. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u599	With the decisions, what are you going to do? They keep coming out of the C.E. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u600	Calm down, let's go down. That's all for EPPY. A third part of the bill, which you are not talking about at all, and I know very well why you are not talking about, has something to do with transfers and movements, which solves and breaks a roussephic and client mechanism, which you set up not for for forty, seventy years now, the mechanism that said that to move a nurse from Chania to Rethymnon must be signed by the Minister of Health. The decision of the commander of one hospital and the other is not enough. It's not enough to do two service. That's not good enough. He must come to the ministerial office. And then follow two other offices, one of the Administrative Reconstruction - to "walk" from there - and one of the Ministry of Finance, for a simple transfer of credit. This thing breaks up now, we change it, and it's a huge relief because it breaks a mechanism of interoperable and customer service that you set up. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And yes, it is a measure of the parallel programme to be able to decide by the person responsible in a sanitary region, who knows the needs, whether to move, to distract, to transfer some people, to strengthen structures or to meet the needs of this worker and not to cash it into vote because he wants the ministerial signature. Well done, you should have told us about that. We are the first political leadership to do this. Who else did it before? Is it a small thing that we are doing, in relation to the motives, for the agricultural doctors, who are practically reintroducing the ancestral line allowance in the parallel programme despite the financially narrow margins? Is the extension of all the privileges to doctors in remote areas, so that we can meet the needs? Are these small? Every day the islands, the mountain villages yell out. This way they'll be covered and they didn't exist. And now I just want to say a word because that is where the hair became the hair for the needs of the president of the CEDEFOP. With a legal explanation from eight lawyers and thirty doctors from these lawyers that the article was formulated because the commander of sanitary formation would ask the mayor that 'I want' and would notify them, he says, to the Ministry of Health that it made him responsible. Pumpkins with the oregano, to say it like that. We reprinted the article in order to remove any possibility of making this mud war with the complicity of the channels, these interlocutory channels, which - they spread like fish, and I repeat what I wrote in support of Bernardakis because he was absolutely right in what he wrote - they have done it first. Our district managers have asked for it, and we put it in. There is a provision in the Code of Municipalities and Communities that says it can give up to 1.5% of its budget to legal persons governed by public law. We extend it for the municipalities, if Mr. Patoulis wants, but we know many others who want both the Mayor of Serifos and the Mayor of Santorini and the mayor of Crete and many others, to take up by decision of their municipal council and only this percentage, to help solve some problems of primary structures from repairs, from oil, from some sanitary equipment that, unfortunately, you have made to get a screw you want ten months as it has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u601	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u602	But let me just say a word to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u603	Thirty seconds and I'm closing the microphone because you've already taken two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u604	I need to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u605	Keep going and close. Okay, you got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u606	Because it was before a word and I told you the mandarin "to get an accountant to keep you books, the shop will close and it will be a sin", I have here the specific financial information - because you say "you don't have money and where the money is" and you have a poor where the money is, here's the money - which shows the following: By January 2015, you - that's what we received - 1,488 billion dollars...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u607	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u608	No 'we've told them'. Repetio est master studio. Repeat is the mother of learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u609	We've been talking to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u610	Mr. Economie, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u611	I repeat: 1.488 billion for hospitals, health centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u612	Finish, Minister. I am not going to give more time to the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u613	This is a central issue for the propaganda of counter-population.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u614	Yeah, two and a half minutes, you got more. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u615	Let me say it. You have set as a expenditure limit of 1.488 billion for hospitals and health centres and you have provided for in the budget of 1,025 billion, you are not us. In December 2015, we had 1,670 billion, i.e. 200 million more spending, and gave 1,240 billion. We've given this up. No 'we'll', we've given it. You had predicted in the medium term your own time of 1.488 billion again. We predict 1,800 billion as a cost limit. And that's written. They are provided for in the budget of 1,260 billion. And it's getting completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u616	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u617	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u618	No, there's no more one minute. Close immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u619	Should I say where are the other five hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u620	Finish immediately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u621	EOPYY, Yenaris 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u622	Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u623	Let him say it a little, and I'll answer tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u624	...3,780 social security contributions.’ In October the fifth amendment includes the part of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u625	Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u626	I'm done, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u627	Finish. You've spoken for four more minutes! It's over and over! Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u628	In October, the 4,098 budget, which includes the 2% and 6% budget, was cut in August. This year, it's 4,371 and with some old debt it's 4,495. If you don't know added, the 620-650 million that is this revenue is included here in the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u629	Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u630	Good. Deposit them in the Minutes and please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u631	With the 350 million, which EOPY took from the insurance funds to Genarus, we will approach him to the target you saw with the chili...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u632	Mr. Polakis, hang up right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u633	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u634	I'll testify tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u635	No, Mr. Economou. Please, tomorrow you'll have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u636	Tomorrow, I'll testify to the Minister's balance sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u637	Do we have any more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u638	Revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u639	I saw some colleagues reluctant that I told Mr Polakis to end. If you don't understand that I'm fighting with the ministers to save time for the benefit of the MPs, tell me! I have no reason to fight with the ministers. I'm fighting for you. Is that right? Let go of the voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u640	You're doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u641	And because I have a pleasant, otherwise sad privilege to be one of the old, I would like to remind you that when the Ministry of Health was integrated and the State Secretary for Welfare, the uninsured and uninsured were taking the welfare booklet, with which they had hospital and medical care. Because a lot of 'for the first time' I hear them say in this Chamber, but the Greek state has started from far behind! Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u642	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Health, dear Mr. Xanthi, we've known each other for decades and you know I appreciate you. You said the Opposition didn't want the bill to come, and that's why it deceives it. It would be inhuman rather than simply micropolitical not to want the relief of Greek society on the major issue of health. Not at all. We just don't accept the seaweed for silk ribbons. No more creation of expectations without a reflection. You see society as a whole in the bars, with anger unprecedented, but also silk-making, beyond their rightful demands, because of your pre-election irresponsible and unresponsible promises to everyone. Don't invest in the infinite hope anymore. This destroys you and the country. Ladies and gentlemen, December 2015, eight ministries' provisions, one hundred and twenty articles. The bill is withdrawn at the request of the institutions. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Forty-two of the original articles are missing. Are they missing? Oh, no. Some of the removals were later incorporated into legislative acts. There are fifteen new ones in their place. We knew this morning that we had fifteen ministerial amendments. I don't know how much it'll be until tomorrow. We shall refer to some, which are particularly scandalous and problematic. You know, the Left asked for transparency and the Left must impose it and preserve it as an eye daughter. Because a donation stamp doesn't exist for anyone. The famous 'ethical advantage' proves it at any time. But we shall be talking about the amendments tomorrow. In the original bill, there was not even a report of the State General Accounting Office. Now you're bringing almost everything undisturbed. The draft law reads: ‘Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions’. It's a falsified editor. How will you ensure that any governmental project is accelerated when joint ministerial or presidential decisions are applied to most of the articles currently being discussed? But, from the result, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the chaotic way of legislating you are proposing is the result of your chaotic way of governance and the work of chaotic governance, unfortunately, is watching it and experience it in full. Example of simple, yesterday, is the alalum with Manolis Sfakianakis, one of the most successful executives of the Greek Police. He's a publicist. Yeah. But does he do performance work? Yeah. The Prosecution of Electronic Crime with Manolis Sfakianakis at the steering wheel not only operated exemplaryly, but has several important tasks to show, especially in cases of child protection in the web chaos. You kicked him out as a publicist. Then you regret it. Then you weighed the consequences with Mr. Toska and finally upgraded him. And well, Mr. Sfakianakis, who is a publicist, Mr. Stavropoulou, who is not a publicist, but with an excellent work accepted by everyone, as what did you throw him away, huh? On the major issue of farmers, which has caused a heart attack everywhere, you must not forget that in a very large percentage farmers have been despaired because for years the state has done nothing to help them produce income. Income, of course, is not subsidies, as we have learned them. This majority does not have tax and profitable capacity to meet the requirements. Your government of ignorance equated all of the farmers, indifferent to the very great disparity that characterizes the industry. Incentives and anti-motors are an unknown term, unfortunately, for your government. As for farmers, why should we not mock anyone, especially in our day, the anti-social form of the escalation of their struggle and the maximist of their demands deprives them of the necessary alliances and removes them from reality. With social automation - and you know it very well, better than anyone else - one professional team destroys the other and all the society and the economy. But you don't remember it anymore. Honourable and advisable dialogue is a national cheque, and that concerns everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the horizontal increase in taxes, in which the government insists by smuggling farmers, does not increase revenue. He should already have figured it out. On the basis of the report on evolution, the variability of tax revenues in 2015, drawn up by the General Secretariat of Public Revenues - it is very recent - the upward changes in VAT rates, which have brought appreciation to most types of food in a number of products and services, led to an increase in VAT receipts in 2015 by only 0.09% or differently by just 12 million euros, when all VAT revenues amounted to EUR 16.3 billion. The tax storm doesn't stop here. Mr Stathakis confirmed reports on the government's plan for an extraordinary solidarity contribution to 10%, which is to be added to the increase in income tax even to 60%, which in turn follows the 40% insurance contribution plan for all. The remaining businesses are falling apart and anyone who can leave abroad. Are these the solutions? And all this so that we don't change anything in a waste and inefficient state? However, our biggest problem, like the whole of Europe today, is the refugee - immigration. We welcome the fact that you now see how Europe works, how we must take advantage of the contradictions - because not all - between the partners and ensure strong alliances. I hope you are now aware - and if you do not confess - of the damage you have done with the nonsense of national enemies and their German-dollar servants who have divided society. Merkel and Gabriel this weekend played a leading role in supporting the Greek conception and rationality of all issues. I come to the bill under discussion now. In Articles 14 and 15 hypocrisy is a matter of privilege to the Left. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. With what logic? Because the Church doesn't want cremation centers in cemeteries, which are municipal property? ETUC is the Special Equivalent Association of Attica Law, which is a solid waste management body. Do you realize what will happen if this project is completed and if such a centre is built in a waste management area? Evidently, the zealous priests from the bombs will accuse their relatives of overcoming and being exempted from them in such places as waste. And you don't stop there on such a matter that it doesn't cost. It's barely a privilege for the Left. To respect the last wish of all those who choose to be cremated, institutionalize acceptance of the deceased’s statement by relatives, committed to the desires of others and after death.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u643	You're wrong here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u644	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u645	So if a relative does not agree with the choice of the deceased, the wish of the dead goes for a walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u646	The D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u647	It's coming back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u648	No, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u649	No, the deceased's opinion is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u650	If there is no agreement between the relatives, the deceased shall not be taken into the deceased.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u651	Just the opposite!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u652	This issue had been dealt with together with some of you, tabling amendments to the distant 1990 - then it was a taboo issue - with the country's Orthodox progress at that time. If 1990 was mature, or did we consider it to be mature on the left, why is it not today? So, if we want to, we can solve it rather than refer it to the bells. It's business and corporate, of course. In Article 33, which is the flagship of the bill, it could have been different. I wish it were. But we think it is a triumph of a peculiar irrational tactic. It is right at the outset to institutionalise the free access and health of all uninsured people, including, obviously, refugees and migrants. Who can say no? What society doesn't dream about it? Is it possible, however, as you see it, because the country's total unsafety touches the two and a half million, while at the same time we have a daily sluggish entry of refugees from the maritime borders? Have you really cost it? Because the EUR 100 million mentioned in the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, based on the information from the Ministry of Health, obviously, are not even enough for aspirins if we are talking about so many people. At the same time, there must be a safeguard, and here, Minister, we would like to know what filters are in place so that those who can be insured do not have access to this cover, because that is why you are creating the worst anti-insurance anti-insurance anti-insurance counter and you are undermining the insurance for which you are fighting. You are creating a huge hole in the budget and, of course, in no sense can the demands of such a system be met. How will you cover the huge cost of the EEAS, which is already overrun? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we fear you are legislating on the impressions. The bill includes forty-nine actions for the implementation of which expenditure is required. Only eight of them are costed. The cost of implementing these eight actions is EUR 112 779 000. What's the cost for the rest of the forty-one? How will you apply them? I fear that the answer is no other than that what you are doing today will never happen. But they're selling at your party audience. And when you won't be able to apply them, you'll throw them all back to the bad partners and others - common and beloved practice. But society, ladies and gentlemen, you also know that it has no other strengths and no more balls, no more reforms. Don't forget that the patches are easy to rinse. On the contrary, the reforms are the only ones that can secure a future in this country and in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u653	Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor. The Minister Theano Fotou, Ms Vultesis, Mr Kokkalis, Mrs Asmakopoulou, Mrs Kerameos, Minister Vitsas, Ms Vaki, Mr Emmanoulidis, Mr Papadopoulos and this cycle will be closed with Mr Karathanasopoulos, the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u654	Thank you, Mr President. We have a bill again in front of us, which is a string of too many different regulations and - if you like - of origin in the sense that others are of the Ministry of Justice, of the Ministry of Interior, of the Ministry of Labour, of the Ministry of Education - Morphic Affairs, and we are trying to understand what we are doing right now. In view of the fact that there are currently pending parallel bills, which have been completed in committee. I would like to mention to you, the Ministry of Interior, the so-called famous administrative reform. In other words, that bill we discussed four times in the Internal Affairs Committee on the Staff Regulations, the promotions, the wage position of civil servants. So we see that this bill comes too and has corresponding provisions. What's he telling us? The bill tells us that, in the form of the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Security, it creates a new batch, a new generation - perhaps more appropriate, the title - of the so-called'staziers'. What does it remind me of? I am referring to Article 1 of the draft law. In 2004, in the sense of combating unemployment, there were various programmes which led to unconditionally introduction into the public hundred and twenty thousand young people - if I am not mistaken - in the sense that they were contractors, they were covered after - supposedly - various positions and we are coming and we are doing the same today. There are other ways, Mr Ministers, to strengthen youth and not with the pretext of stirring up unemployment to create programmes for placement in various structures. For these people, young people in their despair and anxiety will push to become permanent in the public eye. It is something that would have been right if it had been combined with the needs of the public, so that new people could have entered the public at the end. It is a pretext in the sense of combating unemployment or restoring it now, as has been said. We used to talk about fighting, and today we are talking about resurgence. I fear that it will create in the future, even if it is timely to resolve a number of issues, much more serious. In principle, therefore, this bill does not cover us and we have said that we are looking after ourselves, but we are already converging in our view that we should vote against at first instance. I give another example, which has been mentioned by colleagues, so-called 'non-governmental organisations'. There are no criteria here for how they will be financed. There are no criteria for who they will be. I do not even know if there is a serious register of NGOs, so that we can know what each one offers or what it does or does not cover and many times - I will say it - and money laundering or a thousand other things through grants. So my colleagues said - and I noticed - that they are talking about a false copy in the title of a bill, that it is not about speeding up the government's work, but about sorting things out. In fact, I do not see why any regulation is contingent on the grounds that each article and every paragraph depends on the adoption of a ministerial regulatory decision, for which there is not even a deadline for the adoption of these regulatory decisions, if they are adopted and adopted at any time, if the provisions are to be activated. So I see in there that there are also falsified articles. I am going to refer to specific articles, specific provisions. We are therefore trying to do something else: we shall, as provided for in Article 5, set up a committee to review the institutional framework of local government. I was very persistent in the Committee on Public Administration and Justice last week and last week, for a provision by Mr Bernardakis that brings us codification - he says - of Greek legislation. I have said from this House about pathology, the pillaging - if you like - of the ESRB that took place in previous years, in the sense of encoding pieces of legislation, forestry and tourism, which have been broken up by millions. I have not received any answer whether or not this work has ever been done. So today we are coming to do - it says - a 'new institutional framework of local government'. Why didn't we put it in these provisions that we discussed with codification and see whether or not we need to create a luxurious body that controls local government without producing a project? With the establishment by ministers and senior administrative officials, it will want this institution, as part of the revision of the institutional framework, to impose restrictions on local self-government. I move on to an issue that exists in the next article and which, in my view, is scandalous. And I am not easy in the word'scandal', at least in this Chamber. So I see that Mr von Wogau is being changed. Date of birth: 3852, known as ‘Kalikratis’. And what does he say to us in Article 6? That until now, anyone who was present was quoted as a felony was put on holiday. Today, the same provision, which, Mr President, is a true copy of the 'CALKARATIO', but which only eliminates the referral of a felony, tells us that 'any one convicted of a felony is on holiday'. Are we protecting someone? Are there any crimes for which there are references or are there expected to be references to hereditaries? Is criminal proceedings in progress for felony? And at the moment, what need leads us to amend the law of KALIKARATIS and leave the elected representatives of local government in positions which are either being questioned for a felony or referred but have not been tried? And we know all of us lawyers that the felonies are referred back after ten, fifteen and twenty years, we know the postponements given because of the strikes. Are we protecting someone? I have a proposal, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u655	Mr. Carra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u656	Leave that, Mr. Lapppa. You know it and I know it. But I have a suggestion. Listen to her. I therefore propose that the heresy referred to for service crime, e.g. infidelity, oppression or anything else with a felony, be put on holiday. If we have malicious violations, perhaps unpunished, for reasons that some of them have been maliciously abused in many of us, let us say that he can carry out his duties. I'm trying to get out at this point. Another issue, which has troubled me, is that the provisions, which are worthwhile, are those referring to decentralised administration. Here we have another issue: do we have a decentralised administration? Do we need decentralised administration, when we have elected regions? We have just two parallel powers and powers on which we must stand. Today we say that the coordinator of decentralised administration must be someone who comes from the public administration, will be to the highest degree, but we do not know whether this institution of decentralised administration has paid off. Continuing - because tomorrow I will refer to very specific issues - I would also like to say this, which is a flaw in the legislation, because we are talking about Law No.3852, the 'KALIKARATIS' Act, and because we are talking about decentralised administration, which also has its institutional role: this whole bill is structured on a wrong basis. He's talking about the law enforcement officer, who's going to take out the act of credentials on the holiday, he'll take legality appeals, he'll cancel administrative acts. So I ask: The OTA legality auditor is known to be a luxurious idea at the time, namely to appoint seven hundred doctoral lawyers to control Acts 1 and 2 of local government. Did it ever work? Nor can it function with the commitments in the memorandum. So go ahead so that we do not, at least, show that we are also unrelated to the text of the law. Repeat the old provisions, since the law enforcement officer has never been enacted and say "the hierarchical chief", "the Minister", say something about who will exercise that authority. But I have to tell you that I already consumed ten minutes. I ask: Is there a legality controller? Has it ever been activated as an institution? Because I have lost the follow-up since 2010. However, I would like to say another thing - and I would like, Mr President, to say your tolerance because my time is running out - which relates to the method of legislating. It is very important for us that we are a small parliamentary group, that we be given the opportunity to sit down. I understand, however, today, after five months in this Chamber, with the enthusiasm of the amendments which have been tabled, the Minister for Health brings an amendment. Another amendment by the Deputy Minister for Health. They've been asking for the floor for ten minutes each. One Minister could bring all the amendments of the same Ministry, have the time of ten, twelve minutes to be placed and not to be luxurious, because the Chamber is tired and the Members are tired, and at least as far as we are concerned, as I have said, a small parliamentary group is wrong. I watched Mr. Xanthos who spoke and Mr. Polakis who spoke. And they both talked about amendments from the same ministry. In conclusion, Mr President, I am just saying this: we will probably also have Deputy Ministers of State or Government in the near future. I am afraid, then, that the amendments will be trimmed - they will not divide, as to date - we will always hear ministerial lips and thus deny the right to our full expression. One last thing I got tired of, and that's the PSF thing. Provisions on PSURs in public administration, provisions on PSURs today. What is this SPS anyway? Is that the high school? It's a second chance school. And I raise my last point. I have seen - and I am sorry - that Article 79 of the draft abolishes the Office for International Relations and Community Affairs of the General Secretariat of the Government. It has been an instrument that has given much to the country's international status in recent years. In this difficult period of time when Greece's position is not the best internationally, why should we abolish it? Is this part of the so-called 'diplomatic communication'? Is this part of the shrinking of the voices, which can function? I want the Minister responsible for bringing this dismantling down to see it. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I say this: this bill brings us a great deal of trouble. I have not referred to the issue of education and health, because there have been too many colleagues in this House and in the committees on our part. We think that it does not raise matters and we will be putting ourselves in particular during tomorrow's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u657	Mrs Theanos Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u658	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, today we are living in the House and all this time by the media the construction, in every way, of a reversible idol, the rear mirror. The Opposition, particularly the New Democracy of Mr. Mitsotakis, which will tell the truth from here and always, does the black, not to say that it is just horribly falsifying reality. On the other hand, the Democratic Co-responsibility. Let us start with the humanitarian crisis programme. You have allergy to this program. It is understandable that for five years you have been banned by lenders from saying so, saying two words, 'humanist crisis', you obeyed last year you were forced to vote, by force this year at long last, and this year the masks fell. You refused to vote. You refused to ratify the PPP. Why did we do the NSA on the humanitarian crisis? Because apparently there were doses that had to be given to the world. And they had to be given from January! They had to be given! So what did you vote for when you said 'no'? You voted not to have credited the solidarity card in January. That's what you voted on. You voted not to be credited to February and so on. That's what you're doing. Leave everything else, because everything else is hypocritical! We're going to another topic at community centers, Article 4. It is a local reference point for the reception, service, interconnection of all citizens with all the social programmes in the state, i.e. TEBA, humanitarian crisis, social solidarity income - minimum guaranteed, whatever you want - education programmes, OAEDs, employment programmes etc. In each municipality, in two to four hundred municipalities, two to four will be paid by the NSRF. It's true community centers. It's not a mess, not a single idea. They'll be paid by the N.R.R.S., because we put them in the N.R.S. I'll explain what you've done. The citizens will therefore participate in them in time, when they operate - by June - and they will learn everything. They will not learn from your political and clientele relationships, but they will learn directly, in time, all the programs and be able to share in them. We have proposed them to the European Commission for the NSRF 2014-2020. These days will be approved. When you left January 2015, you had absolutely nothing planned. What was handed over by the housekeeper? Nothing has delivered us to the NSRF. The NRP 2014-2020 did not exist in social structures. There was no proposal in social protection. So look at me here, because we, in cooperation with Mr Haritsis and the thirteen regional directors, have designed all the structures of poverty and social protection, we have submitted them to Europe and are waiting within the days for ok. There's community centers in there. Why didn't you do all this and leave the NSAs at the last minute? You know? Because that was your policy. You've reached the last minute. You have been proclaiming the works for the last minute, having only informed the leaders, and so they were ready to take them. No one else could take them. So you've eaten the NSRF all these years and there's nothing left in this country and you're asking for the change! Now listen to what happened with the structures of poverty, your very favorite subject. Here's what happened with the social grocery stores, pharmacies, etc. As you know, if you know and don't mislead the universe of ignorance - because I suspect you are at this point - these were structures of the NRP 2007-2013. This NSRF ended, structures and funding ended in the summer. What did we just come as government the second time? We voted for the PPP, again - which we voted on on 8 October - retroactive power so that we do not leave people and structures in the air. We guarantee 3 million and its operation by 31 December. Listen to hypocrisy. Since we are redesigning the NSRF and these structures will enter the new NSRF and because we know from our programming - because the housewives have nothing at all - that money and structures will work from the NSRF and be paid in June, we are reintroducing an amendment that extends these structures until 31 June. We find another 6 million for people. Who's the hypocrite in here? Who cares about people and structures, you who left them in the air, or we who can get money from the state budget, from nothing to ensure that they function? That's enough of the crocodile tears! That's all the way to this story! Because, you know, what you've been through in the media, because you're checking it out, it's just going backwards: we left the workers unpaid. You've been the ones who have paid them! We saved them the money. And these days are paid for the first few months, and we also ensure the money by June! Here is exactly what they say, "But where they owe us, they want to take the ox. We won't let you take it, of course. You've got it. I'll finish with the most famous minimum guaranteed income you say we've frozen. This is the Democratic Alliance that raises this terrible issue! Irrespectively Savages! Do you have any ignorance of the problem or do you want to mislead the universe? Since 2012 you voted for the minimum guaranteed income, you have done so at the last minute, in November 2015, before falling, for purely voting reasons! And you did it in such a bad black mess and so unprepared! And I have the report here on World Bank. Catapult!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u659	Minister, you obviously mean November 2014, because in November 2015 you were government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u660	Yes, in November 2014. Before they fell, we said. World Bank's report is a mess. And a flash drive not in my drawer, in yours. The exhibition is a catapult to your mistakes! Catalyst for not organising anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u661	I respect your years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u662	Catapult, the World Bank, for giving her 2 million to do the program!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u663	Fluid nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u664	Mr. Kegeroglu, take it easy to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u665	And he's appraising it today. So what does she say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u666	I respect your age!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u667	It says, among other things, that the project team, which would oversee the project, set it up a month after it had begun! What project? Work for twenty thousand people in thirteen municipalities. You put 20 million who didn't reach and put another 7 million to do it! We're done. We've evaluated it. What does World Bank say? You didn't make either the pillar 1 or the pillar 2. Because that wasn't what I was supposed to do. For six months program must have been planned ahead! Understand? You didn't even plan anything! You had nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u668	Sacrificing! I respect your years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u669	Come on, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u670	I'm done if Mr. Kegeroglu leaves me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u671	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u672	That's why community centers need it. You all understand here? Because without community centres, which are fighting them too, you cannot make the minimum guaranteed income, you cannot do services. Understand? They tried to make it to the people with nothing, with the saliva. It won't pass you. As much as you reverse them and do the black, white, they won't pass you. I assure you the people are not foolish. He understands who gave him the feeding card and who takes care of him. He's not going to pass you! I'm putting down the flash drive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u673	I respect your years. Fluid nerve! Give me a break!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u674	Can I have a favor? You have a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u675	Mrs Sophia Vultesis, then Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, as the Parliamentary representative of the ANELs, has the floor. You have the floor, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u676	The sacred wrath, from which it appears that the Minister who just came down to the Step, apparently has a propagandaist explanation and finds her explanation in the well-known saying, "The people more easily believe a greater lie than a smaller lie." Well, people say: "So much cried out the woman, such sacred anger, she'll be right, she can't." The truth, of course, is different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u677	That's what you follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u678	Take it easy. Look, you're looking today for an alibi to vote for what you voted on. Take it easy. Let us talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u679	Did you see what he's like? That's what you do all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u680	Don't waste time. It's at the expense of colleagues. Carry on, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u681	There's no need. We're all talking about it. I gave an explanation that this sacred wrath has no other explanation than this, that someone listening to it says: “It can’t be, the woman exploded. He will be right." That's the reality. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u682	Yeah, but let's start the bill. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u683	The truth is, therefore, that in the programming statements of the "first-time left-wing" i.e. on 7 October, Mrs Folio announced a continuation of the humanitarian crisis law for 2016 and, indeed, the enlargement of the beneficiaries. Here, then, with the act of legislation, which he so much advertised to us just before, what he did was to put gravel on the very law that you brought about the humanitarian crisis, proving that it was a mere one, because there is no programme for 2016. I think you've figured it out. Simply, those who did not have time to fill in the 2015 time or the 2015 kilowatts will complete it in 2016 and end. There is no program 2016. So there is a misleading wording in both the bill and the legislative act and the interviews given by the Minister when it uses the word 'extension'. There's no extension. There is the same program for those who have not been able to fill in the time or the kilowatts. That's to know what we're saying, because lies go on. And lies continue because of the 2 billion for the humanitarian crisis of the famous «Thessaloniki program», you went to the allegedly confrontation of the humanitarian crisis when you became a government, which was 200 million, and now you're down to 90 million or I don't know where you've been and the program is gone, it's gone. Mrs. Fotou also said in the same programming statements in October that 135 million will be used directly for 2015-2016. Can he tell us today what has been used? Those who are complaining that - because they have been advertised...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u684	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u685	He doesn't have a moment later. The MPs are talking now. You won't take the floor anytime!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u686	Mrs. Buddhism, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u687	So, from this money, is it true - because you advertised that you would give fresh products and vegetables - that others took from a fresh chicken by family and others a bag of mandarins per family? Is that the program? So, you couldn't get the guaranteed funding and make it available to the most deprived, and you're telling us you're going to make a social solidarity programme? I'm sorry, but what you're saying today has nothing to do with reality. You accused us of cutting off the CSCE and replacing it with an application of the minimum guaranteed income. In fact, you blamed us for the pilot run. And that is where you called'mutual ribbon seaweed' because I heard a colleague whose expression was amazed. You, SYRIZA, used that expression. Now, of course, it's not the first time you've said other things you've done. Here you were telling us to disengage from NATO and you have brought it in the middle of the Aegean, which, if we had done so, you would show us with the teeth of the dragon from the alliance. Of course, you are now in "outside the CSCE, inside NATO". Before you were "outside NATO, through the CSCE". Now you've changed it. Of course, you're making baptism. The minimum guaranteed income was ours. You have now baptized it'social income of solidarity'. Let's agree. This is not a parallel program. A program has the beginning, the middle and the end. It is not assimilated in four, we bring it a little bit, then some of it goes into legislation, another part of it goes into the bill for public administration, another section is completely disappearing. I don't see you talking about the provisions that have disappeared. Why did they disappear when they were so beautiful last December? You're not telling us. Then you bring this, today and you put it with dozens of amendments. Is that a program? Oh, no. So that's a distraction. I don't know what to call it. It's not legal, though. No Member can follow it. There are still amendments coming up to now. And why is that so? There are two reasons. One is disorientation. They've come up - down, as you know. Listen to this: we have heard government sources say that the Prime Minister, in Brussels, has made a commitment to maintaining the status quo at the European borders at least until the special summit of 6 March. Isn't that serious? It is, but we are discussing what we are now discussing here and we have just secured the status quo by 6 March. We also understood that today's meeting was intended for some kind of group therapy, because we heard colleagues say "we were entitled to what we voted on in the summer" or "we are very pleased with what you bring". In other words, it is obvious that the SYRIZA Members will be encouraged in view of those who have voted and those who will vote. The truth is that today you are not bringing a parallel programme, but you are putting a tombstone on the law itself, which you have voted on, because by means of a legislative act you have swept through the end of the humanitarian crisis and then you no longer need the humanitarian law, which you wanted and voted on. Also, because you say something about uninsured people, I would just like to say that the law was 2014...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u688	It's not a law. Don't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u689	For the Minutes, is L.4238/2014 of 17 February...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u690	It's just for primary care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u691	...which clearly states that these services are provided equally to every citizen, regardless of his or her economic, social, professional, insurance situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u692	It's for primary care. You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u693	Put it in the Minutes, Mrs. Vulturis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u694	Here in Article 5, too, you say that you will also make preconditions, because you blame us for the preconditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u695	It's ready!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u696	Check it out in the Minutes, Mrs. Vultisis, for there to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u697	I shall put it before you, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u698	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u699	Mrs. Fotio, please, sit down. Respect that we are in number 30 and ninety colleagues have been written. Tomorrow you will have the opportunity to reply to Mrs Vulture again. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u700	Mr President, they say that we are stopping the humanitarian crisis and that is false.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u701	Yeah, but I can't interrupt now. I have spoken to Mr. Red. Sit down and wait until your turn comes again to give you the floor. It's just things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u702	Good. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u703	Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u704	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on many issues, our country is in the last place. But there is one for which it is worth and we must be in the last place. This is the deadly traffic accidents. On account of the unjust death of the well-known artist, let us hope that we are in the last place, because we are in the third place in deadly traffic accidents. Road safety is a matter of education. The word "childness" for the Golden Dawn is a unknown word. Unknown! I have to answer. They called the Minister of National Defence "defence" and the other day they won against the leadership of the Armed Forces. From people who are pushing to the crime and who have bread for the violation of the Criminal Code, we have no other requirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u705	Mr President, can you hear what he's saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u706	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u707	Wait a minute. He defends the president of his party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u708	He's blaming us. Please. You're the one who's presided over, you have to keep an eye on him. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You're underworld!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u709	I shouldn't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u710	Don't interrupt, Mr. Aivatidis. Like you said what you wanted, Mr. Kokalis has the right to defend his party president.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u711	Watch because I am wrongly accused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u712	Keep going, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u713	But Mr. Voutsi shouldn't have interrupted Mr. Rabbit. He had to let him be exposed, because the people who are conquered against and the leadership of the Armed Forces are ready for all. They're ruthless. They don't even respect the institutions in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also obliged to refer to the agricultural sector. They know that in this difficult situation, in which it is today, this government has not brought them. The governments of the past thirty years have brought them. We have never promised to delete the fines for pastures, which we have to pay. We have never promised that the 'Hajidakis package' - which was given in 2009 in order to dissolve the blockages - will not pay for it, which will be paid for by all the Greek people. We never promised illegal subsidies. And unfortunately, we're swinging the finger that we don't defend the farmer. Who? The ones who helped sell out the Rural Bank, the only bank, which supported rural faith! And you see that now, although there is no rural bank, the government brings the farmer's card.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u714	At the bank...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u715	No, Mr. Kegeroglu! You should at least ask for an apology. The Agricultural Bank has been sold out. This is what farmers, who are on the roadblocks, know that very well and that is why they are coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u716	The banks and the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u717	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're very vivid tonight. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u718	That is why they come in dialogue with the Prime Minister on Monday morning. We are now living in the era of irrationality! Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are called upon to vote on a bill, which in fact has many positive provisions. This government in September put the agreement in the mind of the Greek people, a difficult agreement with all the prerequisites. The Greek people have given us the mandate to implement it. Legislations have been tabled since September, which promotes transparency and democracy, for which twenty years now nothing has been done. Legislations like the media bill that said something simple, every businessman being lawful, licensed, public administration bill and this bill, for which I'm sorry, but at least the objections are funny. You have the courage to say: 'Yes, we support it.' On the one hand, we hear you say that the country wants political stability, and on the other hand, we hear a party say: 'I look back. We will decide tomorrow'. We hear another saying: 'We do not vote on this bill because of agriculture'. To explain, however, to the Greek people and to promote the media, which take their change, the explanation that you are not voting on the provision for universal health coverage of uninsured persons, for which there was no law. He mentioned it to you, Mr. Gregorakos. He said before that he was in the very positive direction. There were only two decisions. To explain to the Greek people, to the third parties, why you are not voting on the provision for the moleculosis of the third parties. And this explanation of yours to be projected by the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u719	We're voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u720	Explain to the Greek people why you don't vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u721	Who told you we didn't vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u722	In principle, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u723	The beginning doesn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u724	Keep going, Mr. Red. When it comes to the time of the articles, we will see who votes what. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u725	Explain to the Greek people why you do not vote for provisions on island regions with incentives for young doctors. Explain to the Greek people why you do not support the provision to exempt vulnerable social groups from municipal charges. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a one-way to counterpopulation to support this bill. Otherwise, you are exposed to the eyes of the Greek people. You are exposed, because your argument is lame, is unfounded and does not come to any sense. You cannot on the one hand blame the government and, on the other, do not support what the place really needs. The government in a difficult economic environment, at a very difficult time, submits bills. Mr. Loverdos said that the bill does not have much social impact. What do you want? Can we solve the problems and the diseases forty years in a year? Even few to benefit, have the courage to say 'yes, we support it'. Mr Gregorakos said that the bill has very positive provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, this government will succeed in getting Greece out of the crisis. That is why the people voted for us, which is why the Prime Minister asked at least for consensus on key issues. You, however, are exposed to the eyes of the Greek people and are exposed on the grounds of this bill, which you do not vote on for purely minor reasons. In view of all this, we call on you to vote in principle and all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u726	Thank you very much for saving time. Please, Mrs. Anna Asmakopoulou has the floor. Then there is Mrs Kerameo, Mrs Vakis, and for three minutes Mr Vitsas will have the floor for an amendment. We shall continue as I said: Mr Emmanoulidis, Mr Papadopoulos. Mr. Karathanasopoulos asked me to go back a little while and thank him, it makes it easier for us. Mr. James Fotillas and Mr. Athanasios. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u727	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the notorious parallel SYRIZA - ANEL. And I say 'absolute', because that was the flag, the parallel program, with which SYRIZA won the elections, the Independent Greeks took over 3% and so today we have the government'second time left'. A government that, as its history proves, has a special relationship with autumn. It was autumn 2014. Do you remember that? Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Do you remember that? This program you remember? It was before the parallel program. It was the program that said you would alleviate the social inequalities, increase the minimum wage, give the 15th pension, protect the first residence from the 'brows' of the markets. This program one of you remembers it? Because I hear nothing about this program, about that autumn. I can't hear anything. Well, I don't expect you to have the emoluments to apologize for this foolishness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u728	Did you ever apologize for what you did to the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u729	Anyway, after this autumn, the elections, ma'am, in January 2015. And the Genarus elections followed a heavy winter, a winter brought by your terrible government. A winter brought about by creative ambiguity, this amazing situation, in which you led the Greek economy to winter, the market in winter, health, education, security, immigration. And then, in the clear summer, the grief of the third memorial came, after the split referendum - parody and the closure of the banks. The third memorandum, which you are negotiating, is specific. That's yours. And what happened next autumn when you took us to elections? This parallel program. Do you know why you won the election? Why did you win the election, which you always call it candy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u730	We're honest!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u731	The people voted for you. Yes, the people voted for you knowing that you have to apply the third memorandum. Why? Because you told him you had the parallel program. It was the antidote. In the parallel program there were all these things that would ease his pain. That was the parallel program. And so, ladies and gentlemen, since the Greeks are waiting for this as a manna from heaven, the parallel programme will ease the pain and come! Is that the parallel program?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u733	It's fat, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u734	Yeah, yeah, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u735	Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's go calmly, good, it's Friday night. Let go of my colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u736	You can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u737	Mrs. Ammakopoulou, keep going too. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to. You will answer through your parliamentary representative or when you go up to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u738	In your turn. Wow, upsetting about the parallel program! Can I continue, Mr. President? So that's coming. I ask myself now, since it bothers you to ask you: from the crisis we are going to get out of making committees, appointing consultants, meeting fair requests from people, why are we going to vote on certain groups? Excuse me, but I had the impression that we were going out with growth. That's what I was saying. Is there something development here and I didn't notice? Is there a sign of growth in here, something developmental? I'm not talking about fundraisers, because fundraisers can't grow. Is there anything to take us to the next day? Because, if there is, I don't see it. But you say I'm prejudiced, and that's why I don't see it. So now that you're going to your constituencies this weekend and because the rapporteur of the bill is one of my favorite Janna, Mrs. Jufi, Mr. President, now that she's going to the parade of liberation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u739	I won't, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u740	Oh, you won't make it! What a convenient excuse!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u741	No excuse, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u742	So whoever goes to his constituencies, tell the world "this is the solution to your problems, it is the parallel program, it is the antidote. That's it.' You brought it to those who are desperate, to those who are despair, to those who are depressed, to those who expected something, to those who believed you that autumn and the previous autumn. You show them that and you'll get an answer from them. But you've already got an answer from them. And I wonder: Are you going to apologize for this one time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u744	You will not apologise for Thessaloniki's program or that's why. We've made that clear. I told you, ladies and gentlemen, you have a special relationship with the fall, but do you know what? Autumn is usually melancholy, like the melancholy that you have scattered over the country with your governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u745	It's probably your obsession.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u746	It has freshwaters that came and you and the Independent Greeks, which sometimes become storms. They drop the leaves from the trees, as they flirt - one - the promises you made to the Greek people. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, and I am obviously addressing SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, you are in the autumn of Greece what brings permanent winter. Only it's February 19th and soon spring is coming! [[Noise - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Spring's coming! So be careful, ladies and gentlemen, and keep an eye on where you might be next autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u747	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmakopoulou. Come on, Mrs. Kerameau. That kid, when he's out of the belly, what he's heard isn't said. You have the floor, Mrs. Kerameus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u748	Mr President, he has heard a lot of this child! Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to comment again on the way in which the government is legislated, but the legislation we are debating today is really a monument of poor legislation. This is a draft law, firstly, which, for a substantial part of it, did not have prior consultation in breach of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Secondly, there is no report by the General Accounting Office of the State in breach of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and of the Constitution for most of its regulations. Thirdly, we are talking about a draft law which, as soon as possible before it was introduced into plenary, did not even have its text, but we simply had tables showing the articles of the original bill, as it had been tabled in December, that is, before it was withdrawn, and what legislation many of these articles had meanwhile been transposed. And we were finally trying to figure out what's left of this bill. And, ladies and gentlemen, one provision had remained to be voted on in two bills, both in the parallel programme and in the public administration. And, also, the culmination is that another article has amended a provision that has been repealed for nineteen months. That is a point of order and I am making progress in fact. I am actually moving on with reference to specific provisions which illustrate two main features of government rhetoric in the field of social policy. First of all, the obsolete and measurable predicament and, secondly, the emblematic type of intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, you accuse the New Democracy of opposing, voting 'no' at all. Incidentally proof to the contrary is our attitude to this draft law, as to many others. In this draft law, we will support a number of provisions that we feel are moving in the right direction, which in principle build on policies that have been given to you as a reserve by us. For example, Article 19, now Article 13, which provides for the possibility of reducing municipal water and sewerage charges, extending the scope of the applicable provision to third parties, single parent families, unemployed and beneficiaries of the humanitarian crisis law. Ladies and gentlemen, we would perhaps see Article 56, now Article 33, which actually legislates the two ministerial decisions adopted by the Government of New Democracy in the summer of 2014 in application of Law 4225/2014. Recall that under this law, the Government of New Democracy had allocated EUR 450 million from the primary surplus of 2013 for the payment of a social dividend to support citizens with low annual income and immovable property of small value. He also made 20 million euros available from the primary surplus of 2013 to finance housing, food and social care activities for homeless people. And, yes, we had provided medical coverage to our insecure fellow citizens and Greeks and foreigners. What you today appear to be a supreme act of social sensitivity is, in fact, merely extending the scope of the existing provision. And will someone say: is it bad what you're doing? Not at all. Obviously, it's not bad. Not at all. I wish all our fellow citizens could have access to health services. However, ladies and gentlemen, and that is our difference, with a wishful policy. Without costing your social policy is an empty letter. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pragmatic and honest. We know to what extent the country's wallet arrives and we know to what extent benefits can be offered to our socially weak fellow citizens. We are responsible for avoiding the tactics you are following in this bill, that is to say the legalization of social benefits without costing, so that at the time of the account someone can be asked to pay this probationary generosity. And who's gonna be called to pay for this punctual generosity? The Greek taxpayer. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not know and cannot know what the bill will be to bring this Article 56, when you legislate unprecedented throughout Europe, to provide medical cover to almost all those who enter the country, regardless of whether they enter legally or illegally. Who can calculate the cost of this provision when the flows of migrants are uncontrolled? At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, who are showing such great gaps in public care, which you have left in a collapse of the national health system, with what convenience do you promise and legislate on a provision that you know you can't actually offer? Unfortunately, you seem to be legislating for the show. You throw another firework in the hands of the taxpayers. And I remind you it's not the first time. I remind you that you had done the same thing in the summer. You remember that after announcing the disastrous referendum economy, you said "free media transport for all". Is it a problem you did this? Not at all. The problem isn't that. The problem is that you have done so again without having secured the necessary resources. And what's the result? A 9.5m euro hole was caused by this act. And how was that hole covered? Let me remind you that it has been covered by the unprecedented increase in ticket prices by 16%, which is now being borne daily by the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to close by mentioning the amendment enabling the municipalities and regions of the country to grant, through their budget, operational needs of public health bodies, which are within their administrative limits. In short, the government admits the failure of the health system and tries by legislative interventions of optional power, he says, to control the situation. In fact, however, it moves the burden of responsibility to the local authorities, who are called upon to put their backs on them to cover the government's thoughts. It makes local government co-government bodies co-legislators. You will tell me: 'But why do you say that, since the possibility is simply given to the municipalities, rather than the obligation on them?' I say this because we are talking about the health sector. In the health sector, too, there is no possibility. There is only a duty in the health sector. When, for example, a hospital’s machinery is not working, the mayor will see a tail outside his office when a man is in danger or dies. And these people will require the operation of the hospital. So the burden of responsibility is passed on to local government, but without having made the necessary resources available to local government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law comes to a vote while the government is making extravagant tax burdens, which will have the effect of depleting the middle class and professionals of each sector, while all productive Greece is at the forefront, while the world of pretext is on the way. All of this to disorientate public opinion from the real problems that she has created. Unfortunately, the government is going on for reasons of micro-political and communication feasibility to unwritten benefits, for which Greek citizens will again be called upon to pay an arrogant account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u749	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u750	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u751	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u752	Mr President - the President of this House is also here - I would like to make a request: two amendments have come a while ago. One's huge. It takes a year of understanding and then we get a place. Mr Kammens' other amendment is small, it is a real amendment, but the essence of it is a terrible one. So we have a direct assignment without even a rough contest? These are the consequences of clumsiness and delay and so-called irresponsibleness. We'll be placed tomorrow, you've said. We have approved this procedure, although we are eating Members' time. We will have our special speaker and the parliamentary representative tomorrow. For the other amendments, the ministerial, our own, the provisions on the articles of the draft law, how will it be done? I would ask you to take all this into account when dealing with the President and the Bureau tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u753	Okay. At the first opportunity we will discuss all this at the Conference of Presidents. You may now regret that I give the floor to the ministers tonight to explain their amendments, but now the President has reminded me - and it is as he says - that the ministers will not speak tomorrow, unless exceptionally. The rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and it seems that the debate of the parties' leaders will also take place. If one in so many, the second part is changed, things are getting easier and perhaps Members who have not had time to talk. I'm hanging up with a nice women's triad and essential-- I'd say. Immediately after you'll talk, Mr. Vitsa. I don't want you to ruin the beauty of the trinity. Understand? That's why I put you after you. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u754	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be passed, the 'parallel programme' as usual, although it was clearly fought by opposition and its vote was suspended in December on the pretext of its supposedly poor preparation, poor costing, etc., is finally being voted on in plenary. It is worthy: What is the attack on him? The one and a half million unemployed you have created, the armies of despairless uninsured, the victims of black work, the vulnerable groups, such as pregnant women, children, chronic patients, do not have the right to free healthcare? The mental patients, drug addicts, asylum seekers, immigrants with or without papers don't belong to people? Is there anything else? The parallel program was used as a 'parallel work', 'Waterlo', 'quarry'. The parallel programme has led to unconstitutionalism due to the adoption of many of its provisions by means of legislative acts. Yes, it is true that legislative acts are bad legislative acts. It is true that the urgent procedure, which is denied by Parliament the very essence of consultation, must be avoided. However, there is also the urgency of the survival of modern sports, the urgency of survival or life at the limits of the last six years, because it is another thing to go through the 'Black' through public television, it is another thing to go through horizontal wage and pension cuts and to give extensions of support structures and solidarity contracts and social benefits, in order to provide an extension of life, Ladies and gentlemen, a obsessed opposition, which suffers from all sacrifices of justice, an opposition that, in order to demonstrate that everyone itself is, does not hesitate to take the prerequisites not of the memorandum but the prerequisites of society that has itself dismantled, an opposition that constantly stumbles in anti-constitutional acts which establish self-evident, free access to public health structures for all, is not opposition to human rights, is opposition to the Constitution itself which is constantly invoking, is opposition to what remains of the moral, legal European acquis, Article 21(3) of the Constitution, Article 34 of the Charter of European Union, Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. When two and a half million uninsured people fall into the ruins of the ever social state, left by the trumpeter of insurmountable neoliberalism, who have served so zealously, when social corruption has, in fact, been voiding the constitutional obligation of the state to provide free public health and free public education and social goods mutate them into services and products, when iso-state and iso-state, the equality required by the universal enjoyment of the social right of health, has in recent years been subjugated by charity, solidarity and the indifference of social doctors for the invisible, when the right which suits humans per se, has grown into volunteering and is subject to the self-determination of everyday heroes, who have offered and offered solidarity structures, social doctors, social pharmaceuticals, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times, on the occasion of other bills and of what has been shared with the broadcasters and are being distributed, there have been various flaws about the invisible hand of the market, which, as a result of a magic wand as a miracle, will give rise to boldness, regulate and bring about the common good. Behind the invisible hand, however, the market finds itself the visible hand of politics and legislator, because it is political will, it is a political choice for the invisible hand of the uncontrollable and unsympathetic market to privatise public goods by creating structural inequality, to throw the poor and helpless and to give the modern outbursts of Vouchers and Safetinets, not so as to relieve them, but not to break the window of social consensus and cohesion. But it is also political will and choice in the crisis that the crusaders of globalised neoliberalism have brought to bear with the heavy burden of the social state to everyone, not on the basis of their value or their order but regardless of them. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have to vote and implement measures that we do not subscribe to and constitute the most important price for our country's euro stay. It's true there aren't good and bad memoirs. Unfortunately, the memorials capture neoliberal principles and policies and one-ways at the moment is the shortest possible exit at the least cost. However, our difference is that you who now cloak the antimony cloak, which can only be taken as pragmy, are fervent fans and supporters of neoliberalism and even if the memorials were not there, you would have invented them. We will continue, even within this difficult, gloomy framework of comitology, to fight to remove ourselves, by helping society stand on its feet and by trying to ruins left by the neoliberal Leviathan to resurrect the post-war gold century of Europe, to rebuild a social state on the strong foundations of equality, equality, social justice and solidarity, i.e. all the European values which, unfortunately, have become honoured by the illegitimate children of neoliberalism, war, racism, right-wing, intolerance, all these European values which, unfortunately, are now eroded on the shores of the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u755	Mr. Vitsa, firstly, because you're also a political chief of discipline and, secondly, because I've been informed that you've spoken as Minister, the promise...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u756	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u757	That's how the ladies told me here. As a speech, a protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u758	No, Mr. President. What I did this morning was announcing a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u759	Good. So I give you the floor for a maximum of five minutes to explain your amendment and not more. Pick up the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u760	Mr. Vitsa, will you talk about Amendment 244?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u761	Yeah, and I'll make a political comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u762	Mr. Vitsa, make an effort for five minutes to get time. You'll have a little tolerance. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u763	I'll make the best effort. My aim was to talk about Amendment No 244 and specific No 48. Unfortunately, I did not have time to protect politically and legally two Members of the Democratic Alliance. But I'll give them a study at night. I say it in that sense. You know that the most serious possible issue, after all, is currently being discussed at the summit, is the issue of the management of the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u764	Did you guys get it tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u765	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Every time, you intervene! You're an old parliamentarian! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Easy, ladies and gentlemen, I will protect the Minister. You don't need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u766	You will find too many inconveniences again to raise the pressure even before I begin. You know, I'm usually a cool man and I'll stay. I say that on this basis, the Greek people, the Greek Government, all democratic political forces, are doing a job of defending human values, defending the Geneva Treaty, defending our patriots and our international debt. In this work they also contribute or were invited to contribute the Ministry of National Defence, just starting from a base to speed up the procedures, so that in a short time we will be fully ready in relation to our duty, hospitality and overall management. That is what this amendment is doing. This amendment mainly concerns the role that the Ministry of National Defence will play and the possibility of active assistance in the areas of housing, food, healthcare and transport of refugees and immigrants entering the country. With this logic, we, together with the co-responsible ministries, are taking on a coordinating role. That role exists for now. We hope - and I would like to say this to the Greek Parliament - that it will be fully completed, regardless of the fact that we will be assisting on a lasting basis, until the Greek Easter or even shortly before, so that this whole process will now go through the full coordination of the Ministry of Migration Policy. For this reason, I would just like to stay on the point that I think may give rise to some objections. It is clear that all the procedures followed and all the procedures followed will also have its competitive part. I imagine we agree that when there are supplies for Lero, they will mainly be made in Lero, as for Chios primarily will be in Chios, as for Kos most of the agricultural products will be purchased from Pyli. But it is time for the six or seven days, because you know that even the rough competitions have a three-day limit - but you cannot say 'eat after three days' - that is done in a reasoned manner. That is the main issue. Secondly, it is the legal issue, since it has been mentioned. If we agree that this is an urgent situation, then I must refer not only to this amendment, but also to European legislation, in cases of urgency. I just want to remind you of the European Union Directive 24/2014 and Article 32, which refers to such cases and the fact that where there is a possible conflict of acts and European legislation, European legislation prevails. That's why I thought I'd protect you against this and how it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u767	Minister, the expenditure must be unpredictable. These are not unpredictable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u768	Mr. Athanasios, please! After three colleagues you have the floor, you will speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u769	Unpredictable is the fact that one day there is a migration flow of two hundred people and the other is a three - thousand - to - one migration flow. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u770	There are two thousand in Mytilini every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u771	I have therefore given further explanations on the end of this and you can read it. That's the one thing. The second point is that there is a more general debate on which I think I should remember history every time, and that is not the amendment. In 1974, after the dictatorship, there was a significant change in Greece. In other words, we have ceased to operate on social grounds certificates, communists and other left-wingers could say their ideas without going to the islands and voting for their parties. All that's won. Secondly, in 1981 there was a major political change in Greece. I would like to remind you, beyond the fact that there was the "fight of the vegetable market" and the "fight of the tankers" - the older ones will remember it - that at that time there was a change in the New Democracy: Changed Leader. The first statement at the time of the Chief - and refer to the newspaper "BRADY" and "AKROPOLI" of that period, at the beginning of 1982...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u772	When do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u773	In 1981, the New Democracy Leader changed. So his first statement was: 'We will not allow changes to the structures of civil servants'. And I understand that now, by confrontation, that times pass, situations change, but tactics remain the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u774	However, please conclude because you have left the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u775	You interrupted me twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u776	You arrived in 1982!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u777	I arrived in 2015. So, then, there has been a very big political change. The country comes out of the party and the client state in a process of continuous economic policy lending that creates it and tries to do so under comitology, where others put it, a series of steps. And these steps have the parallel program. I understand the opposition. You are dizzy because through this process you may not understand that there is a policy that is both left and realistic. You are dizzy because you see that Greece comes to Europe and performs its international duty. And it's already changing Europe. Of course, you're dizzy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u778	Minister, don't make me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u779	One second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u780	Yes, but when you ask me to speak on the amendment, we are talking about the amendment. You have a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u781	Wait a minute. So I say this: you cannot - numerical says it - question the results of the three elections. You are, however, trying at the same time to defend the structures of power that have reproduced you and brought you all these years to power. Let us be clear: with democratic rights, with new structures of power, we will also proceed to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u782	Minister, do not get off of the Step, Mr President, one question. For a minute, if the Minister permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u783	He has tabled an amendment that is guilty and is abusing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u784	See what's wrong with you? This is to the detriment of the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u785	Mr. Brutsis creates it, I don't create it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u786	A question to allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u787	I allow him to ask his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u788	Sit down, Mr. Loverdo and Mr. Brutsi. You don't have to stand up to give you the floor. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u789	It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u790	Mr. Vitsa, you go to your seat. You've finished your speech. Mr. Brutsis, you will have the floor for a minute and for a minute, Mr. Loverdes. And don't think about continuing beyond the minute! Respect colleagues! Here you go, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u791	Not a minute, Mr. President. I oppose Mr. Vitsats' criticism of the opposition and the rest. At such a critical time and on a request from you, Mr Vitsa, in the Greek Parliament, you should speak less. So I ask you to bring an amendment to the Greek Parliament. I'll let you know he doesn't have a precedent. There has been no historical precedent in the Greek Parliament for such an amendment authorising the Minister of National Defence in particular to make a personal choice of direct delegation. Secondly, is this expenditure unpredictable? Why is she unpredictable? Didn't you make your calculations? Did we not know on the hot spots that Greece will deal with this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u792	Months, we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u793	Third, say the number. I request to know the number on behalf of the Greek Parliament. What is the amount of the direct award that Mr Kammens wants to do? The height. You know that, I think. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u794	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u795	Good. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: I speak to you as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, a party standing next to the country's national problem. And you know what I mean. But this and more ask for a white authorisation for direct assignment, which has no historical precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u796	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u797	Minister, you have mentioned a number of protected goods from your policies and the amendment that specialises in policies. You forgot, you missed, to mention Greece and its citizens. Report everything else. That's right what you mentioned. But you missed your basic purpose and your basic obligation. You'll have to fix it. Secondly, I would like to ask: is this an unforeseen expense when we talk about hot spots here with Mr Muzala from the end of October? Are we all right? Is it entirely predictable and, nonetheless, can it be amended at the last moment, Minister? It tells us, ladies and gentlemen, that the assignment will take place without a public tender procedure, not even the rough form that gives you a chance with fluctuations. Ask a man, Minister, who knows better, whether or not this is not a state law, because when the time comes - not from the evil ones thinking about you, you are one of the moderates, I know you, but do your duty and believe that you are based on a legal basis - and you are exposed, Mr Minister, and you will be attacked by everyone, then who will defend you? Nobody! We're telling you to catch up with someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u798	What do you mean? I don't understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u799	Look, now you answer me without knowing exactly what I'm telling you. You stand up and answer me politically. The politician comes second, while the law comes first. If you are sure that you have done the best legally, God in front is, I wish you the best with my wishes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u800	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Would you like to give an answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u801	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u802	You have the floor for just a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u803	Two parliamentary representatives have taken the floor on one issue, despite the fact that I imagine they have studied the amendment or at least read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u804	We haven't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u805	It is well known, firstly, that all procedures, procedures so far have been carried out either by hand or by regular tenders. Isn't that right? Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u806	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u807	We say that within this accelerated process both to the next two or three, as I said, months with a full justification procedure written in the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u808	That's not good enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u809	...and you know that these will be checked. Then I'll tell you numbers, don't rush. It's full justification for unforeseen needs, those that can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u810	The law provides for these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u811	Yeah, the ones that can't be. I have brought you an example of this very simple, that the tender procedure for feeding, for example, Lero may, on three days, demand that we give some money and finish and at the same time make the contest. So simple things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u812	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u813	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u814	It's just so simple. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u815	The amount of money, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u816	Second, I'm telling you this. What we have budgeted in relation to the first three - that is to say we remove feedingstuffs, because this is a process that you cannot easily budget - does not exceed EUR 8 million. We estimate that we will be able to do much less, precisely because the Armed Forces enter this process...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u817	Is that a little bit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u818	Excuse me, I don't know what you mean a little. I know you've signed up for far more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u819	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u820	And you and you as a party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u821	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u822	I say that this procedure will be completed with this figure - so I say number - which we have now budgetd. What does that mean? Transportation, accommodation, feeding, health care. Do you want me to mention numbers in relation to this happened in 2015? Can I tell you how many people the Greek people and the Greek Government hosted? You know that. Over eight hundred twenty thousand. These are the numbers you think they're big?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u823	Huge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u824	Do not engage in dialogue, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u825	So I, Mr Athanasios, say the very simple thing. Since I do not need Mr Koutsukouko's mathematician, who has helped him understand that any number multiplying with zero makes zero, I say to you this: International legislation, which is also defined by the European Union - not by the High Commissioner, which is much more money - speaks of EUR 5,72 per person per day. Just say how much they can mean, if there's a "x" number, which is right now three thousand people in Moria. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u826	I agree. What you're saying is right, but that's predictable. I want to help. The contest can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u827	Please, let's finish. Don't make a new round, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u828	I explained to you one more time. Only in urgent and unforeseen procedures, which you know are controlled not only by the Ministry of National Defence and by the Minister, as they have said before, but also by the Ministry of Finance and goes by saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u829	A clarification...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u830	No clarifications, please. We move on to the list of speakers, so that Members can also speak. Mr Emmanoulidis Dimitrios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u831	If that's possible! We can't watch speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u832	Please, be quiet! That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u833	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u834	But that's not how it works now. Please. Mr. Emmanuelides, start please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u835	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions" is the title of the draft law to be passed. The title, admittedly, is inappropriate to its content. His speech as a parallel programme I think he finds a more consistent correlation with his political and social content. The bill comes at a very critical moment for our country. Our Government is taking strong reactions from social groups such as farmers, free professionals and various scientific disciplines. They are all these social groups that supported and trusted us in all the last elections, as they trusted us with their collective luck. Knowing the commitments we made towards lenders, by accepting the tough memorandum from almost all - except the JRC - of the political parties and by consciousness of our social and historical responsibility, we are striving to get the society and the country out of Kaidas, which New Democracy and the PASOK have thrown it down. With deep conviction that our Government is flesh from the flesh of society, the society of everyday struggle, we are determined to go along with society to guide it to the clearing of social advancement. Ladies and gentlemen, "the lion's nail" says Aesop or possibly Alcaeus. It's not clear. The sample of writing of the bill to be passed highlights the government's political and social character. Its regulations, of course, are not enough to remove the social idle of the memorandum. It is, however, a manifestation of the positive social footprint of our left-wing physiognomy. I mention, for example, some of the measures in the bill that reflect our social sensitivity. In the field of health with the bill we go to cover uninsured citizens and vulnerable groups, such as pregnant children, chronic sufferers, mental patients and drug addicts. Ensure full and free access to two and a half million uninsured. The Greek state's constitutional obligation to ensure full and equal enjoyment of the social right to health for all citizens is finally done in practice. The main philosophy of the new regulation is the free access to public health structures for all, based on AMKA, and their complete nursing, diagnostic and pharmaceutical coverage. Furthermore, there will be no involvement in medicines for those with an income below EUR 6000. Recruitment is also facilitated by incentives to serve hospitals and health centres in the barren regions of the country, through subsidies from regions and municipalities in kind, for example, nutrition, accommodation, etc. In the field of education under Article 40, the strengthening of teaching and additional teaching support for pupils of public, high school and high school shall be enriched. The term ‘compensatory education’, which includes additional structures relating to the provision of supportive teaching to vulnerable social groups, is inserted. In the workplace, it is moving towards the creation of two hundred fifty community centres throughout the country. Community centres are new action with innovative features. Their operation aims to develop a local benchmark for the reception, service and interconnection of citizens with all social programmes and services implemented in the intervention area, thereby offering support to specific winter groups. Ladies and gentlemen, the criticality of the moments dictates all political parties to stand up to the circumstances. Observing the political geography of the Chamber, however, I am cooperative in finding that beyond the parallel program there is the parallel party universe of the two systemic parties that dominated throughout the post-government period, as both the New Democracy and the PASOK act in parallel. Two parties in one's packaging are each of them. Their internal function refers to the duplicates of the tax of old times, with the executive and the excerpt. Now, what is the stem and what the answer should be given by Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennamas. I mean it! Because the internal pathogenesities of the parties are a dramatic deficit in politics, I would strongly recommend that these two political spaces finally find their way to the good of the country and above all to their own good. With all their opposition, dismantling any casting of political responsibility, they have the illusion that they can produce us. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeds. Plant, sprout, fruit for the good of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u836	Thank you, Mr Emmanuelides Dimitris. Mr. Papadopoulos Sakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u837	"At such times we all have to stand by each other, overcome formalities and responsibilities and try to solve real problems. The region is trying in action and not in words to support all those who are struggling for primary health care." Do you know who says all this? The nephew of the President of the New Democracy at a joint meeting, at the initiative of the Region of Central Greece and the 5th YPE, at which the Deputy Governor, Michael Venizelos, attended. The serious health services, health centres, regional hospitals and hospitals were discussed. Look where we came from. The Region of Central Greece directly takes the following actions: Conclusion of a Programming Convention with the 5th Ministry of Economic Assistance for the Purchase of Consumables, provision of fuel for the movement of ambulances, where necessary, provision of a grant to the auxiliary doctors and the doctors of the countryside who will serve in the area of aggression, remote and problematic region up to the amount of EUR 400 per doctor monthly for the entire duration of the term of office. This agreement could not be implemented. We need to get through what we are now going on in this draft law. We need to get away from the demonology, which many have resorted to because they have been tempted, as some of them are crazy about the idea that, beyond the implementation laws, there is a policy which is a parallel programme to implement laws, neoliberals, monetarists, those imposed in the country, in a highly indebted country, but imposed in a way that creates tragic social problems and a catastrophic recession. The country needs to see with actions at all levels related to society, but also at all levels where the effort to relaunch the economy can be developed, how can the voluntary development programme financed by friends, colleagues, with EUR 5.8 billion by 2020, the new ESDP, development law, the new national development plan delivered next month? All this, along with what we have legislated with the act of legislation, together with what we are putting here, is what is the great need for the country, that is to say to what is its overall reconstruction. We understand that health issues, the completion of a public, effective, qualitative, free health system, in Greece today is a huge task for which all these efforts are being made here and all those that are going to follow. Already many have spoken to you about what is exactly what we are legislating for, but it follows on from those who have questions and the primary health system with structures in neighborhoods and all that will enable them to operate until at least 22.00 hours, as well as the changes in the administrative system of the country, the health regions, hospitals, the National Health System, to work in appreciative and participative terms. It also follows the medicine that is public good, psychiatric reform, and, of course, emergency treatment with self-care departments in such a way that the EAW can provide its services everywhere, in a particular way, especially with regard to the inhabitants of our islands, in the difficult areas. We understand that too many incentives, too many possibilities, must be given to the inspiring workforce, but we must also make efforts to actually have a quality health system throughout the country. So these, which are our legislative initiative, of course, are annoying by all those who think that this cannot be done. I think, therefore, that the evidence given is given in a concrete way and with the guarantee of funding. I will not tell you any data already mentioned. I will tell you, however, that the hospital budget for 2016 has the potential to make use of all the EUR 100 million that will take place in order to enable our overall intervention to be made against the uninsured by an EEA budget that is increased by EUR 502 million and provides for transfers of EUR 900 million to the hospitals for EUR 700 million in 2015. It provides that in this period we will have arrears of EUR 1,114 000 million to hospitals from the possibility of financing for welfare and social security EUR 2,696 000 that the debts have reached and the hospitals EUR 1,114 000, and, of course, from the yield on the NSF of EUR 714 million from the increase in insurance contributions. And all this, through transfer payments, they make that the social budget for 2016 goes up by 823 million euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a concrete intervention by the government in very difficult conditions - global, European - and it shows that, in this landscape, there may be initiatives leading to the historic rebuilding tasks undertaken by this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u838	Thank you to Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA and for the consistency in time. Mr Jason Fotella has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u839	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go on like this. It is not possible that the Tsipras Government - by insisting every day on the parliamentary procedure. All the problematic procedure under which you are legislating is reflected in this legislation. No consultation has taken precedence. Only consultation with your own were you doing, while there is no costing to about 2/3 of what you are proclaiming. We are still waiting for the comprehensive report from the General Accounting Office of the State on what you are saying, while several provisions - some positive, at least in words - you refer them to be implemented through ministerial decisions in the future. Do you want a train example of what I'm saying? The medical treatment of uninsured persons. Even on this very sensitive issue, which we too want to see cover for our citizens, when and when the CSCE is issued and when the procedures are specified, there will be universal coverage. Until then, only announcements that work as propaganda do. We can't go on like this. Transitions and transfers cannot be decided with a signature and in the sensitive health area. Convert the relevant RU to a partner who will arrange the various RUs without objective criteria in the process. You did the same in the public administration evaluation bill, in the articles of the parallel programme you brought there. However, following the reactions that broke out in your predictions of mobility without even the official's request - listen to it, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you have brought us - you have had to make corrections. However, serious issues remain, even unconstitutional, beyond the obviously perforated provisions. Incidentally, Ministers, bad news from the Council of State. Did you hear about the decision of the Council of State from 2014 on the channels? It exposes you, as much as you hide it, to reject the anti-constitutional arrangement you have brought. It goes without saying that these issues fall within the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council rather than the Minister. And now, Mr. Vernardakis, how can he stop this unacceptable media segregation? How can he control them from saying what he wants and not what they think? I'm not afraid, though. I think he'll make it. He'll find a way. I'm not afraid of him! You also bring provisions on grants to innovative institutions and institutions for the care of HEIs. Who could generally refuse a grant to institutions for their incredibly increased needs? Your policy has also raised these problems instead of dealing with them. The figures from the ERGAN system, for example, show the magnitude of the problem that is growing. Only in January of this year nearly ten thousand jobs were lost because of the uncertainty in the economy. But come here too, when you set criteria for the grant of institutions beyond the current legislation, by a Minister's decision again, please! You mentioned to us in committee that there is a legislative gap. The codes through which the pre-school institutions were paid were subject to the Ministry of Health and, meanwhile, the pre-school institutions were transferred to the Ministry of Labour. We have a similar case in Patras with the Foundation "MERIMNA" for HERE. Grants, which have been given too late, have also been cut in this institution for the past three years. The regulations adopted, however, were inapplicable, such as the one concerning the continuation of the "Aid for Elderly and People with Help" Act, despite the promises made by the Ministers to the Foundation in Patras. And as if not all of this were enough, we also have Mr. Paulis deserving to answer my timely question about the LEADER, citing me from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour. I've tried all ways. I first tabled a timely question to the Ministry of Health. They said it was unauthorized, and I have to turn it into the Ministry of Labour. I turned her to the Ministry of Labour. They said it was unauthorized, and I have to turn it into the Ministry of Health. I put it as a written question now. I've been waiting for two and a half months. Still no one's answered me. Gift of gifts! I finally figured out what's going on. And that makes sense. He was informed the day before yesterday that at the time that my fellow Member, Mr Barriots, from Potami, asked for a timely question, the Minister was drinking coffee in the canteens. So how could she be able to answer my questions to me too? You also bring in some proper arrangements, such as this, at last, for the operation of the Santorini hospital. But it seems to me that your government is now entering into the logic of the operation of hospitals in terms of private law, private sector, I would say. Why else does it indicate how to fund Article 66, including contracts, partnerships with private operators and with tourist agencies to strengthen medical tourism? You come to realise Mr. Lykourenju's vision to become this hospital for medical tourism. You're right. Except you've been denounced before. Your political consequence breaks bones! I would like to conclude by addressing the issue of the Open University. You have also brought us regulations on the EAW here, as in the draft law on the evaluation of public administration, and you have also been in the legislative acts on this subject. Wonderful way to legislate! I shall repeat what I have said in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. Yes, some provisions are in the positive direction. However, the main problem is the question of the self-reliance of the Open University. And this does not go hand in hand with these regulations, nor with those in the draft law on evaluation of public administration. The creation of additional three Vice-Presidents - which will come from other universities and have no teaching employment, that is to say, they will be party to the present government - is the last thing we need for the Open University. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u840	Thank you, Mr. Iasonas Fotidas. Mr Charalambos Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u841	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vitsas, the Deputy Minister, the moderate - indeed - and as a human and as a politician, said that we were dizzy by the government's policy. We have been dizzy, Minister, but from the revolts of the government, from the contradictory legislation, which introduces legislation, which comes to the House after a few days, a few months are being revoked and, of course, from the indecision of the government. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the 'black Bible', which you had adopted in mid-2014, and in which you were talking about courtesy of the parliamentary procedure and trespassing, circumvention of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House by means of legislative acts brought by our government, but also by amendments. At least forty-nine amendments are today. Do you have anything to say? Do you have anything to say about the legislative acts, which we had not adopted in two and a half years, and many of which were irrelevant in terms of content and even additions when they were ratified? Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the government's 'parallel programme' bill. This debate is interesting, because the nature and course of the bill is parallel to that of the government. At first, only fuss and splendid expressions about the so-called non-aligned government, which serves the interests of the people and then gathers on one night, as soon as your teeth have been rubbed by the lenders. Then you continue his conversation, after some articles have been withdrawn, but you have put them in other bills. And even your own rapporteur does not know how much and what these are. This is a bill which does not honor Parliament and should have been withdrawn and tabled from the outset. This mess is responsible for the government which is the definition of irresponsible governance. You're going to tell me: That's what we were expecting to see the government's responsibility? Just in the past few days, did not the appalling amendment take precedence over the licenses of the canals that made a rag of the Constitution? And, indeed, you're so pleased with the government that you're now saying that the same thing is going to do not only with the radio, but also with the internet, as if the internet were a villain of SYRIZA and ANEL. Mr. Papadopoulos, you said a moment ago that beyond the law it is politics. Yes, but in the rule of law when politics conflicts with the law, you should know that the law is finally won. A few days ago, is it not that you confessed to your failure and by concise procedures NATO officially involved in managing the immigration and refugee problem? Is this NATO from which you once said you wanted to get us out or is it a synonym and I'm confusing it? I will not even say what consequences this move may have on the geopolitical chess board in the long term, because this is not the right meeting of this House. Didn't you make the country the boxing bag in the international fora? We have reached the point of participating in international meetings with a plunged head, without a serious counterpart, in setting us ceremonies and addressing us deceptive countries that would not have dared or looked at us in the eyes in the past. A few days ago the Turks were not banned from landing the Prime Minister's plane in our Rhodes? Two - three days ago, was it not that your Minister directly said that you misled farmers? The other day, did you not prove once again your attitude to the sovereignty of the country, and did you, by means of unsatisfactory procedures, have two worthy police officers with proven work? I'm talking about Mr. Stavropoulos and Mr. Sfakianakis. And, indeed, Mr. Sfakianakis has also degraded him publicly, as if he were your political enemy and not a general of the Greek Police who serves the nation and the Greeks. Then, of course, you ran along a little bit as the whole world got angry. And finally you found a salmon solution, i.e. degradation by upgrade or, rather better, upgrade by downgrade. All this happened in seven, ten days. The fact that your government is depriving even elementary responsibility is now obsolete. I hope at least now that you are saying that you have agreed on the content of the bill, that it will indeed be so and that the House will not come after a month to amend what we are voting on, because it will be contrary to the commitments of your government to lenders. That is not to say, once again, the phenomenon of your tax arrangements that you changed it twice, three times after it was voted on and, above all, after you entangled the world in it. It has a lot of interesting points to focus its criticism on this multi-brand plan, because it is, in fact, nothing more than the splendid titles. On the substance, we still have a series of arrangements, many of which are of a rhetoric character, which hide behind a cloak of two, three of which are correct, as our rapporteur, Mr Brutsi, said. Behind invoking humanity, you legislate monstrous provisions. That's the tactic and we've all learned it. I set, as an example of this regularity, the former Article 12, which was transferred to the Vernardakis bill as Article 48. Behind the pretext of the parallel programme at the time and of evaluation and merit now, the shameful provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of the article, namely, have been hidden, not to be brought before the Ottomans for return to the service of officials who may have ceased for very serious reasons, and there is no disciplinary or criminal prosecution for the relevant mayors and districtlors. Look at these devices. We will also see them more thoroughly during the debate of the above-mentioned legislation. Otherwise, we're talking about a client state. Another classic example of your method of legislation is the amendment to meet the needs of health infrastructures by TA I and B grades. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you bring such an issue that can even dismantle the TATs in an amendment? Who did you consult with? Have you decided in one day that the health structures must also become a problem for the ATT? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a second more. Let's talk about it. But tell us what money, with what expertise, is going to be prepared for? The LAGs do not say that they are opposed to this provision, especially when there are indeed exceptional and imperative needs. But we should have talked about it. We are not opposed to such a case. In fact, not only in health issues, but also in other emergencies. For example, recently on my island, in a fire that occurred in forests, due to negligent arson, the region had to put money to meet the needs of fire-fighting vehicles. But that would require consultation, and it would also require a debate to save expenditure. Now, I would like to say a few words about the amendments. I'd like to say first about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u842	You're over the minute. If you're kind enough to complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u843	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as Amendment No 213 is concerned, and in particular No 33, I told Mr Polakis - who said he would see it - that I would bring it back again. It has been granted the allowance for unhealthy work to too many people and we say that the nurses and nurses, who work under the same conditions, should be given the allowance. I conclude with the amendment tabled a moment ago by the Deputy Minister of National Defence. Listen to this amendment not to vote on it, ladies and gentlemen. There's no contract going to go through. They'll all be canceled. And if someone offends her, she'll be canceled. European legislation forbids it and those of you who are legal will know it. First of all, there is no urgent and unforeseen need. The need is predictable. Immigrants keep coming and living in our country and in our islands. She's not unpredictable. In any case, a tendering procedure could be carried out to determine the prices for the feedingstuffs, the projects which need to be made - provision of services, etc. - and then join on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u844	There is an existing legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u845	But it cannot be left to the Defence Minister to choose and without a competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u846	That's how much it's gonna cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u847	Why are there no closed tenders which are quick? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There can be no free negotiation. I do not want to say that some want to serve under opaque procedures but it is an amendment which, I think, cannot pass. Not even the maximum amount is laid down. How much is that going to be? Secondly, there is no time limit. It's things you'll find in front of you. The Minister's away. And if you don't accept what I'm saying, take Mr. Rajko, who's a professor of administrative law and a chairman of the Committee of the Independent Procurement Authority, to clarify these issues. You've got till tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u848	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. We proceed with the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou for eight minutes. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u849	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was lucky about two hours ago to attend the National and Kapodistrian University the event in memory of the great Greek scientist George Papanikolaou. There I was really lucky to hear the speech of an inspiring scientist, Mr. Karakitsu, a university doctor at the Attica Hospital. The spirit of this 'parallel programme' has been condensed with three words in the speech - the all-scientific speech by Professor Karakitsu. Who should we protect? The unemployed, the insecure, the needy. The "three alphas" said Mr Karakitsos. And I'll add a fourth alpha to the unscrupulous. That's the university. And sometimes it's good for politicians to go to these universities. University, however, is also the announcement that a reception centre beside the university, because it will not allow it to perform its university functions. A state is obliged to keep its eyes on the uninsured, the needy, the homeless and the uninsured. So that is the spirit of this parallel programme. Yeah, we're making mistakes. You blame us for incompetence. Yes, because we tried in this narrow context, which we never hid is a framework of war - under conditions of war - to see people, as the professor said tonight in his inspired speech. It's very difficult. That's why we make mistakes. Yes, we've put in an EPA arrangement, the Open University, which is my responsibility, Mr. Fotella, for making your speech and leaving, because we had a hundred and sixty people who would be unemployed at the end of December and we didn't have time to put it in a legislature. It was not of interest to the previous administration that for twenty years the Open University has been operating, there was absolutely no concern for these administrative officials. We have tried to resolve this problem with the legislative act. It's not the best way to legislate. I couldn't agree more. But it is the best way not to have another ‘alpha’ or to magnify these four ‘alpha’ I have spoken about. I come to my own provisions on the competences of my own and are directly and underground - even if only underground - with what I have said before. Open University. A university is always to ensure academia above all. And academics also include humanity, which is why numbers, not numbers, for that people. We must have that clear. We are moving forward in regulations that ensure the democratic functioning of this university, a university with a huge social role, because people who are at an early age now are paying. That is why the state must ensure all this guarantee that this university does not work as a business. I am not going to comment on this great achievement, and thankfully it has been and started operating in 1997. I'll recognize it. But how did it work in the past few years? We'll have a chance to talk about this many times here. So what do we propose, why don't I have a lot of time? They lead to self-determination and democratic operation, not automatic self-determination. And let them wonder about the forty-eight ICP members who are now extinguished, why don't we proceed to automatic self-determination. We therefore have provisions on the basis of which we are first trying to shield the institution. An institution that is not shielded by institutions cannot function democratically. Secondly, we must have the necessary regulatory text for the operation of this university, and thirdly, we must involve the Quaestors and curriculum managers in the administrative process. The first to the Management Committee and the second to the Quarter's meetings. In addition, we provide for two of the LAG members to join the Management Committee. We are accused that the Ministry of Education has caught the Open University from the neck. That's not true at all. The same is true of the university with the provisions we are bringing, which they are asking for and all the other universities, which decides how many students it will have. We're abolishing the draw. It was a global originality to have a draw. People pay and they get paid - some stay outside - without any criteria. So the draw is abolished and the university decides how to get undergraduate and postgraduate students. The number of importers is therefore not defined by the Ministry of Education, but by the administration and, when autonomous, by the consortium.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u850	The intact?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u851	With the draw, we had nothing, Mr. Loverdos? I'm sorry, I mean. Those who apply, we can get them to the undergraduate. Not us. The commander.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u852	It was unfair, but impeccable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u853	Wasn't the draw unfair?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u854	A similar, but imprecise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u855	Why not take them all when the number is considerably reduced because of an economic crisis? That's what I said. In postgraduate studies, however, some criteria need to be introduced. I'm talking undergraduate. We have several other issues that concern and show non-involvement by the Ministry, such as the Special Account Management Committee, that people who control it are appointed by decision of the Senate or the Governing Body as long as it is not autonomous are appointed. I would like to say with this that we are giving more unemployed scientists the opportunity to participate in the Open University, to teach other things that are too much - you have seen them - and are strengthening this social character. I'll just say one more word about the Open University. It's the 11th Open University we have in Europe. None of this, even the Open University of England, which is since the '60s, has yet to function completely autonomously. In other words, we have nothing against the IGC members, because they have tried to show me this way, for an unfortunate wording I have had for the other universities. But we want to ensure the academic character and not the operational character of universities. I would like to say a few words about Article 29, in which, for the first time, a provision is amended, which was from the period of Metaxas, which has been reintroduced and widened by the New Democracy, the Right and the Universities, and which has resulted in deportations by people democratic - and for internal conflict in universities - to be persecuted in the most ruthless way. We consider this unacceptable. I think you're all going to vote on it, because it's a matter of democracy. Article 30 - because it is worth saying - stipulating that the Senate can transfer funds from the ordinary budget to the university's asset-raising company for the recruitment of natural persons for safekeeping, cleaning, etc. In this article we insist on this provision, just saying one word. Remember the Kuneva case. And how did we get in the case of Kuneva? With contractors. And what does that mean? I say this to show a little bit that it is not for party reasons - or I don't know what - but to resolve these issues. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like to close, saying about the amendment to the Open University, that the practical exercise is added to the themes of the Open University. Finally, the Open University is a centre for the certification of distance learning. It is the competent university which is responsible for this purpose to be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u856	We thank Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulos, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u857	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you are too proud of how to legislate. This bill came in December and you withdrew it because the troika imposed it on you. He came back in February 2016 with 30% less articles. That's not a piece of legislation. This is a string of regulations and amendments. I shall refer in particular to the articles relating to health. Coverage uninsured says. They were all covered by AMCAs or legal documents in Greece. This was covered in 2014 by the Government of New Democracy and all the details were provided for in the two ministerial decisions of Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis since June 2014. The regulatory framework has already been established. What wasn't predicted? Laboratory tests that didn't take place at the PEDY. Make a ministerial decision with a referral from the ERCF to take place at the ERC and save the job. The rest is fairy tales, it's a lie. What exactly do you legislate today? Dear SYRIZA colleagues, what are you legislating today? The bill actually has the flagship of this draft law. Legislation for a part of the population, unknown how much, which does not have legal documents in Greece, that is, for those who are illegal in Greece. Do you understand what you're voting for? Here you open a huge subject and don't start telling me nonsense about racism, because racism is about race, it's about color, it's about the nation. When we talk about legal terms, legal or illegal, there is no racism. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u858	If the man is ill, what are you going to do with him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u859	In which country is similar legislation applicable? Tell me which European country, Mrs Jufi, similar legislation applies. I heard the Minister, Mr. Xanthos, before, who said that we are being pressed by international organizations. Let us know who these international organizations are and why they are pushing Greece and not pushing Germany, France, Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u860	What does the medical oath say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u861	Let him name them. Don't talk about sensitivity. A political sensitivity greater than we do not have, and that is a given one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u862	Alas! That's for sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u863	What is the sensitivity to the provision of health services to insured and uninsured legal residents of this country? The constant blackout - out to health said by the Minister, Mr. Xanthos, on a daily basis? Can I say something else? What's that cost? How much is that gonna cost? Can you count? Mr Paulakis said to the committees that he is counting a hundred million euros. A hundred million is the amount that we had budgeted in 2014 for the legitimate people in Greece and for the uninsured Greeks. How's he gonna figure it out? He can't count it because he doesn't know how many illegal people are in Greece. Can we go further? The ferry that you're opening, did you think about it a little? Do you want all the poorer people from neighbouring states to come here to operate illegally for free or do expensive surgery? Don't pretend you don't understand what that means.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u864	If you ask me, I'll take the floor and answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u865	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the government along with the European partners is struggling to curb illegal refugee traffickers in Turkey and you are going to create a new category of traffickers who will bring patients to Greece to operate or treat for free. Think about it. Mr Paulakis said before that, what we had legislated was not well, because they did not close the social hospitals or the social pharmacies. Is he serious? He's not here. Tomorrow morning when you vote for the bill, will these be closed? How many people were going to social hospitals and social pharmacies? Some thousands you want? Let me take it. Do you know how many visits all year long in Greece? Forty million. So, what are you talking about? He told us about the budgets. They had - says - at the end of the year spent hospitals and health centers 1.240,000,000 in 2015. The non-sensitive New Democracy in 2014 at a time of the same crisis and of the same financial closeness of 1,400,000,000. Where's your sensitivity? Where is he? Two hundred fifty million less? Is that your sensitivity? Do you want to talk about primary health care? Is there? There isn't. It's all broken up, PEDY, health centers. You're going to transfer... [[Noise in the Chamber]] There is no need for a higher confession of the health system by the Minister more than the amendment he brings, for the health system to be financed by the municipalities, regions and firefighting. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u866	That's not what he's saying. There should be regional locations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u867	And I have Mr. Papadopoulos here, who just told us that Mr. Bakoyannis, said he wants to give oil to health centers - didn't he? Did you say that, Mr. Papadopoulos? - consumables. That's where you turned her into health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u868	Oh, right? In a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u869	And you're rejoicing. That's the truth. Do you want to move on to the intensive care units?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u870	How many did you close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u871	One hundred and fifteen this morning, dead from the complications of influenza. Eighty beds were closed in October to November, despite the fact that the Ministry of Health had been informed by both the Association of Nursing Greeks and by the EMCDDA and by CEDEFOP, that the contracts of nurses expire. And what did you do? Inactivity, inability, weakness, as you want to say! I will go ahead because the time is running out. You're sending two nurses with the five hundred you've made late four months later. They will be hired in April to May, the flu will peak next week or the following week. Fifty patients are intubated in simple beds in hospitals mainly of Attica and wait in line to get to the intensive unit, those who survive! That's your sensitivity. But lies are over! Previously, we tabled the Black Bible as a New Democracy. He's got forty-three fat election lies. It is submitted and I will submit it in electronic form to the Secretariat of Parliament, to read it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Kelles, presents for the Minutes the above USB, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you keep lying and I don't talk personally, as you know. The Minister's not here to hear them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On 17 February, it issued a communication that, in two months' time, it will testify to psychiatric reform in Brussels and 18 February, one day later, the Minister is reintroducing a statement that he submitted it. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u872	Who's talking about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u873	Ministerial decision in December 2015, Christmas Eve provides 43% medium-term reduction of fifty-one diagnostic tests in microbiological laboratories throughout Greece. From February 2, 2016, new prices appear in the system. I will tell you that the values in diagnostic laboratories throughout Greece have been since 1991. They were reduced three times from 2012 to 2015 and they are coming on Christmas Eve, reducing them to 43% and - listen! - there's another reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u874	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u875	Don't worry, it's not personal. Another reduction was made, Mrs. Jufi, 18%. Is it true?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u876	Mr. Kelles, if you're kind, please complete. You've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u877	They close the diagnostic laboratories in Greece and you today provide free care for the illegally present in Greece. A little shame! Mercy! [[Noise in the Chamber]] I won't mention the rest. For the surgery list, if you do, will it be per doctor, per clinic?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u878	Mr. Kelles, please finish. You've exceeded time. We have many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u879	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u880	There's not a minute. We have ninety-six speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u881	You put composters in hospitals. Do what? Counterfeiters in the hospitals back?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u882	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u883	Mr President, I am ending with a proposal. The Minister, Mr. Xanthos, said that parity, solidarity and social redistribution are the left-wing authorities. And I ask: is Mr Tsipras' application in NATO coming with German administration to guard our maritime borders in the Aegean region before or after? Colleagues, you have no beginning or end on the left. You've lost both the eggs and the passovers, they say in Larissa. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u884	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u885	Mr. Igoumenides, there's no question. He made his location and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u886	I'll be positioned very soon. Mr Kelles, one of the authors of the "Black Bible" of the New Democracy, began his speech saying: "The bill has come now, which the troika has forced you to withdraw before Christmas." Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u887	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u888	That's right. After the troika imposed it, you with what political assessment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u889	I didn't say the troika imposed it. The Minister is here. I said that on Christmas Eve, you've reduced midday...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u890	That's what Mr. Kelles said. And I'm asking. By carrying out orders, he asked and left the debate of the bill before Christmas?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u891	Who left?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u892	Didn't you leave the conversation with your party?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u893	No dialogue, please. Finish your thoughts, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u894	We left as a party, because you got a ultimatum from the troika...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u895	Mr. Kelles, you don't have the floor. No, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u896	The second question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u897	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u898	You will listen to me, Mr. Kelles, and you will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u899	Let me reply, Mr President! Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u900	Mr. Kelles, you don't have the floor. Mr. Igoumenides, finish without personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u901	I'll be done. The second question to Mr. Kelle is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u902	You can't ask Mr. Kelles questions, because he can't answer. We don't have a dialogue. Do you understand? Express an opinion without personal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u903	Is it in favour of or against the health coverage of all refugees and migrants in Greece for the problem they have? Is it for or against?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u904	Let me reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u905	You won't answer. But that's not how it works! Mr. Igoumenides, it's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u906	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm asking some questions. The primary health care who crushed her? About that to say he's coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u907	We are not doing parliamentary control right now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u908	Mr. President, seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u909	Of course not, Mr. Kelles, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u910	But he asked me questions. We are in favour of covering legal unsafes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u911	No way, Mr. Kelles. We won't have a dialogue. We will proceed with the normal procedure. May I ask you further, because we have a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u912	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u913	Please. Mrs. Jufi, please. That's not how it works. We have a large number of speakers. It's known that not everyone will talk. The process will be completed today, as you know, at 2.00 p.m. They will talk to those who are in the process and may talk to some Members tomorrow morning in order to finish the process. In this sense, we will not reduce the time, but I would ask for exceptional restraint and if we can limit ourselves to six minutes it will help. We're moving on with Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u914	Mr President, 'children play' seems to me. The kids still play! It's getting very tedious at this time to make stunning moves just for cameras. There's no substance and nothing at all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u915	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u916	Please. Please. I didn't interrupt you. Don't interrupt me. Let me say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u917	But I do not accept the term 'impressions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u918	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u919	That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u920	It was therefore claimed by the Minister, who spoke, that the bill which brings forward a debate entitled 'Accelerating government work', the so-called parallel programme - as you would like to call it - highlights the values of the Left. Of course the term 'left' and what it means is now slandered. We say very clearly that this bill we are discussing is an anti-popular one. It is part of the logic and policy of the memoranda. It is a bill that is subject to the class characteristics of a policy that meets the designs of the bourgeoisie in our country. It's nothing different. And we say this for a very simple reason, Minister: you are claiming that this bill seeks to eliminate social inequalities. What does "social inequalities" mean? What do you mean by that term? We know that according to the scientific definition of the term, these inequalities stemming from the peculiarisation of socially produced wealth by a handful of capitalists. These are social inequalities in a class society. What does that mean? It means that the wealth produced by the workers with their sweat comes a handful of capitalists and they're stolen. That is why they cannot satisfy their basic needs, despite the wealth they produce. Is there such a provision, Minister, that we haven't seen it? Is there a provision in which you really want to seek to pay the capital, the monopolistic groups, for the relief of the popular strata? Show such a provision. Show us a provision that says, 'I will take from the shipowners, I will take from the bankers, from the industrialists and give them to the people'. No, there's not a single layout and we're causing you! Not only is there no provision, but you are not even taking measures to limit even these scandalous public expenditures that are done for the benefit of big capital, that is, this redistribution that you are making through the state budget by taking them from the taxpayers, that is, from the people, to give it to the capital. You don't even do that. You are barely limiting state funding in the health sector, for example. How do you limit him? But it's very simple. Here you and the other parties celebrate - the New Democracy, etc. - which are subordinate to the interests of capital, for the Santorini Hospital, an anonymous company which will help reduce state funding. Here's a very simple way. Secondly, you are also giving new motives. Because your policy cannot be seen in fragments. We need to see her in total. At the same time, when you bring this so-called parallel programme, the programme of the Memorandum of Understanding other obligations, at the same time you are bringing the new development law, where you are giving new incentives - fiscal, investment, financial - to the monopolistic groups for the investments they are preparing to make. So it is clear that what you mean as social inequalities are the least poor, those who still have a piece of bread, a job - a job and even a job - to pay for those who are socially excluded. They are socially excluded because of the policies implemented by the previous governments and you too are. They're socially excluded because of this unfair capitalist system. That's what you do, the less poor people to pay for the poor, and don't tell me that's not the case. For example, you are making a false controversy about the issue of health care for uninsured people, as if you were bringing something revolutionary. Nothing, the treasure's carbon! I do not take any exceptions and how you deal with them, what funds you will give. What do you think? That the terms and conditions of access to nursing and medical care and any financial contribution to medical expenses will be laid down by Ministerial Decision. Those who are helpless will participate and set terms and conditions, instead of seeking with your policy to have for all people free and upgraded medical care facilities. Not only do you not do that, but you are establishing criteria, terms and conditions and you will also determine any financial participation of them. That is the issue. Second matter. Even what you're doing, who's paying for it? Are you taking them away from the huge funds that you are scandalously giving the monopolistic groups as state expenditure? Oh, no. Do you do this to pay and finance from the state budget this expenditure? Oh, no. Who's uploading them? The EEA, i.e. the insurers. And you will come after a nice morning and say that the EOPO's finances are not enough, that the insurance funds are not viable, so you will further reduce the benefits, increase private participation, that is, the personal participation of each individual in the examinations and medical care, increase contributions to the insurance funds and reduce pensions. So here's how an environment is formed, where even those whispers you're going to give, the people will be invited to pay for it themselves. So we are talking very clearly. Our opinion on health is given and stable. How about everyone? Provision of health services, public and up-to-date for all people without conditions. What does that mean to make it more lined up? That the health sector must be abolished here and now, that is to say, health contributions must be abolished and public health must be financed through state expenditure exclusively. And of course, along with this, we must also abolish business activity, whether private or public, in the field of health. That is the JRC's opinion on health, because we cannot all count him for health problems, based on the suitcases he carries in his pocket. Is it really a luxury in 2015 to claim this, that people's needs in the field of health or education are fully met? Oh, no. At the bottom of the line, if you consider this to be very great, why have you repeatedly refused the amendments - to which the rapporteur of the JRC referred - which alleviate and move in such a direction that the unemployed, the uninsured and the people's families are actually relieved? In all the JRC's amendments you are opposed. In fact, not only do you not take steps in this direction, namely the abolition of the private and public business, but also the marketing of health, for example, for the Santorini Hospital, which will operate under a public limited company, with a view to its competitive operation, the increase in own resources, the reduction of state funding, but also the increase in state revenues. The corresponding logic of reducing state funding is the provision you bring with Article 90, that local government agencies can finance hospitals and primary health care. Is Santorini's choice random? Here I heard the previous speaker from the New Democracy saying that they will come and fall. But for what's going on in Santorini and medical tourism, for those who have the suitcases for no talk. They have the full right to come here, while the people will be watching these health benefits from the key that will be given to those who have money and will ask for the charity of social doctors and social pharmacys. This is the classicity of your choice and your policy. And it's no accident that this private hospital is taking place in Santorini, because it's exactly one of the highest tourist destinations and you want this to be exploited. That’s why we say you're even turning health into a merchandise. So, you continue to further strengthen class freight in the health sector. And with this very policy you are giving you the enthusiasm of the New Democracy and PASOK, which now come as honorers to talk about poverty and impoverishment, as if we did not know their policy, as if they were not responsible for the appalling problems of the people's family and the deterioration of the position of the people. And they certainly appear with the New Democracy to flirt with nationalism and racism. You're full of flirting with this process. And of course, your confrontation and quarrel is about how you share the poverty between the people, in the name of always the appetites, the competitiveness and the profitability of the monopolistic groups. What do you want to achieve with that? You just want to force the people to compromise and to learn to live with poverty and impoverishment, that it is a natural development of things to throw the bar of demands and to make them comfortable with crumbs falling from the tables of pluralism. So the usefulness of SYRIZA as a governmental option proves, on the one hand, to continue and complete the dirty work that began and did not complete the other parties - the New Democracy and the PASOK - and, on the other hand, to contribute at the same time to the conclusion through its policy of subversive and revolutionary ideas. Not only can he cultivate defeat on the people, that it is a one-way and nothing changes, but also to slander the prospect of breaking and conflict with monopolies, the prospect of breaking and conflict with imperialist associations, such as the European Union and NATO, and the need to free themselves from them, to confuse the prospect of breaking and conflict with the bourgeoisie and power to overthrow it. So, then, the role of the JRC is much more important in the current circumstances, because it reveals the essence of the class policy of SYRIZA - ANEL, which contributes to organising the struggle of the people but also the popular alliance, with the aim of achieving more overall relief not only of the people from the escalation of the anti-population attack, but also with the aim of more overall ruptures and reversals. In this respect, it is clear, Mr President, that the JRC cannot vote for this so-called parallel programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u921	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes. If we make time savings, it'll be even better!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u922	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to ask myself whether Mr Kella's 'Black Paper' includes the SYRIZA's major responsibilities for the plague pandemic which hit Europe in the 17th century and the millions of the dead that it caused at that time. As a new Member, in this brief period of political developments, in addition to the other experiences I have gained, I have found that I have acquired some predictability of the positions expressed by the various political groups in this area. So it is now quite certain that every time New Democracy comes to blame for all the country's suffering to the few-monthly rule of the country by SYRIZA. Monday, Wednesday and Friday will provide for the collapse of the government and Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday he will see that SYRIZA builds the new state of SYRIZA in the public space. PASOK, of course, will try to see things balancedly, "we did, you do, so even we are, we are," with a logic that seems to be weaning from power creates serious problems for its MPs. At the first moment, therefore, colleagues and colleagues, who have taken over the government of that country, have proposed the relief and relief of the weakest as one of its flagship objectives. This commitment was maintained in full despite the July Agreement, which is demonstrated both by the humanitarian crisis package and by the increase in the 2016 budget by 820 million, especially in the health sector. I believe that all the articles relating to the Ministry of Health are persecuted and colluded by this flagrant targeting of the government. This aim is particularly embodied in the provisions of the draft law on health care for uncertain persons, a fundamentally important section, with a strong left mark in particular and, of course, with reassuring consequences for the most unprotected social strata. The promoted regulation contains free hospital, laboratory and pharmaceutical coverage to about two and a half million citizens, which of course include both Greek citizens and most migrants. With this arrangement Greece will approach the objective of universal health coverage of residents more than ever. In this provision, as in others concerning the Ministry of Health, other colleagues have already been mentioned and will then be referred to. It is well known that the problems of staffing health structures are particularly high in non-urban, remote areas, especially in the Aegean islands, how much smaller of them are. The objective difficulties associated with isolation, low connectivity and the small population create significant difficulties in the establishment of those areas with health personnel, in addition to other serious problems in the provision of health services. The proportion of medical and nursing staff in the regions of North and South Aegean is one of the lowest among the administrative regions of the country. With the provisions introduced by the bill, the pre-service of both doctors responsible for rural services and those qualified in island, barren or problem areas is considerably financed, i.e. about three hundred and twenty-three points throughout the country. Local and regional authorities may also receive special allowances, such as free accommodation, feeding and other incentives. The decision of the Ministry of Health speeds up the process of characterising health centres and regional hospitals as barren and problematic, as well as the provision of economic and other incentives to doctors in the countryside appointed to them. A clear priority is given to covering vacant posts in island areas, as well as to barren regional hospitals. In conjunction with the above, graduates of medicine are allowed to postpone the completion of the countryside service until they participate in the examinations required to obtain the specialty qualification and not necessarily fulfil this requirement before starting the specialisation. As a whole, therefore, all the above measures obviously create positive conditions for covering many empty posts in island regions and in this sense are a planned step towards improving access to public health services in these areas. In addition, these arrangements in the bill show that they take the constitutional clause of islandity seriously, which is very often ignored or degraded by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u923	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor from New Democracy. And you, Mr. Consola, if you're in time, like Mr. Emmanoulidis, will be very good for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u924	I will try, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u925	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u926	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the legislation we are dealing with in the form of a parallel programme has not found the echo that we would like to see either in the National Representation or in society. At the same time, however, the government seems to be dealing with this piece of legislation on communications. It is trying to mitigate the deterioration that has suffered since the frustration of expectations it has set itself in the previous period. Of course, the parallel programme does not compete with the first and great "success" - within introductory forms - of Mr Tsipras, the Thessaloniki programme. Really, how many do we remember? How many of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, are you prepared to apologise to the Greeks for the lies that have been said in the previous period, for the unfavourable promises with which you held the vote, to bring in and sign the most painful memorandum? The bill we are debating today is a roundabout bill, since every minister puts, takes out, adds an amendment, two amendments, to settle loose ends, possible and - apparently - party friends. You filed it, you withdrew it in December because it wasn't costed, and by a hundred twenty articles originally in cost, you withdrew the forty-two. Tens of amendments were tabled in the bill. Even some time ago, amendments were tabled. I still don't know how many of them there will be and how many will be submitted here to the National Representation and if we see the bill get better. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that you have brought, is a stitching-up either of client regulations or of a procedural nature already in force, which are in force on the basis of the previous government's ministerial decisions. In addition, there are commemorative obligations that you baptized them as a parallel programme. Example is the transparent management of the surgery list to avoid informal bypasses. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you can no longer earn time. You cannot earn time, as you have calculated, by tabling and voting for this bill, because the tolerance of citizens is over for you. Do you think you're setting up the health coverage of uninsured citizens and vulnerable social groups, really? In fact, you are giving a legislative form to two ministerial decisions of the Samara Government, giving the possibility of hospital treatment and medical care to the insurers and all the urgent incidents related to refugees or illegal immigrants faced by public hospitals, since I remind you that these ministerial decisions came into force in 2014 and were based, ladies and gentlemen, on the surplus resulting from the rational and effective financial management of the Samara government. Because we did what we did was costly and based on a realistic basis. In your agony, however, you must come and legislate, in violation of open doors, and you come and underestimate risks, burdening the state budget. I am referring, ladies and gentlemen, to Article 56, whose application will enable patients from neighbouring countries to engage in high-cost hospitals, but also to obtain expensive medicines that can naturally be traded abroad or in their countries. I cannot, however, go back to the amendment relating to the grant of public health facilities by the municipalities. Which municipalities are we talking about? The municipalities that already operate marginally, since many of them are in a bad financial position? It is clear that it is served by this provision. The government is trying to transfer and transfer its responsibilities to local government agencies. They are given responsibility, even if potentially, without giving them any resources. We could agree, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on the ability of self-government to participate in the financing of public health or public health services structures, but with other terms and conditions, on institutional basis and on the allocation of resources. We do not see that, nor did we see it today. Even what you in theory say about facilitating recruitment to public health structures in difficult areas is incomplete. I have made specific proposals to the Minister for Health and a framework of incentives that the state must establish to choose doctors across borders and island regions. At the same time I have asked the President of the Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament, while notifying the Ministry of Health and the Ministers, to discuss these positions in committee. I expect that there will be appropriate response and attention. A problem is yet another provision in Article 58(3), which states that in the positions of qualified doctors in the ESS declared up to 31-12-2017, they cannot stand as doctors serving in another ERC doctor's post unless they resign from that post. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] As a result of this provision, ladies and gentlemen, doctors who have been serving for 15 years in a public hospital cannot become directors at the ESS. They can, however, stand for and take up military doctors, doctors from other structures, doctors from the European Union or doctors from third countries. Minister, I think you should review this particular arrangement. Maybe he should retire. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a multi-brand plan, with issues that concern various ministries, including the Ministry of Education. We have heard from the Minister earlier about the accession departments. This is a purely undisciplined arrangement, which actually leaves at the mercy of God children with disabilities and children with disabilities. Is this the concept of special education, ladies and gentlemen, which we have heard from the Minister? On what scientific, academic evidence is it based? The accession departments, ladies and gentlemen, were national, and you know there were indeed problems of subsistence in these structures. Instead of choosing to support these structures by subscribing, the Minister... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you're kind, give me a minute. I think it's worth it. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on a point of order. Instead of admitting his weakness, because - you know - he made an indirect confession as to the inability to strengthen special education but also made a direct confession as to the abolition of special treatment structures in the context and the source of education. You know, in the past, we had heard from the Ministry of Health and from the Ministry of Education in particular, the intention of supporting these structures, by appointments, by means of technology and all the related structures. So, have you forgotten these announcements and today we are asking the departments of special treatment to be developed in normal classes and to leave to luck the children who really have problems with special treatment, which is huge and are not treated with integration? You are accountable, ladies and gentlemen, to disabled people and those with special skills. You can now withdraw this device. Also, the Minister of Education referred to the Open University and said he would allow doctors to teach. Why were they excluded now? What does he want to do? He has to explain to us the Ministry of Education. Does he want to turn the university into uncompetitive as far as European institutions are concerned and in the international environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u927	Please complete your thoughts, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u928	Mr President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u929	No, I won't allow you. We're in eight minutes and fifty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u930	Good. The Minister has also raised the issues of refugee education. In what sense will we incorporate refugee children, who are all solidaritys for this, into a formal education that has weaknesses when it does not consider the possibility of integrating them into an intercultural training of potential? But we need to see - and I am making a proposal, Mr President, and I am ending - intercultural education, both in formal and informal and in adults, because I think that at this point in time a multicultural dimension is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u931	Good, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u932	In conclusion, I would like to thank you and ask the government to give a definitive answer to the functioning of the NGOs, which are uncontrollable to act in the island country. There's no coordination. There's no state intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u933	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes, with respect for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u934	It's the time of the islands and especially the Dodecanese. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill that faced the impact of counter-population, perhaps as much as any other. A bill that is the beginning of the implementation of our government's parallel program. And I say the beginning, because it's obvious. In order to cover the wounds you have created in the years of the memorandums and in the years of bipartisanism, much more legislative initiatives are needed. It is certain that our parallel program will be implemented, no matter how much you shout, no matter how obsessively you want to continue on the path of your neoliberal perception. We will complete it within the time of our constitutional term, which - yes - will be completed, in a spirit of interlocutory and corruption that is squeezing you. And because you asked, if there's anything developmental here in this bill, I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's work has not ended. The development law is coming, and he's gonna be called to vote on it. Our bill is not a sum of ruffles, as you blame us and as our confiscated colleague has accused us. There's a need for society that's been abused in your day. And there is no need for fat money to be spent on consultants and contractors, as you know very well, to be implemented. It needs political will and eyes open to society. You were pleased when the parallel programme was frozen in plenary for a month, we understand that. What we cannot understand, however, is why you have prosecuted us that the bill would not have the support of the institutions. How much underpaid have you been trained on the back of a winter society? The parallel programme is here, it is costly, and an entire society awaits these breaths of justice and social care. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always believed that support for islands does not begin or stop tax reductions. This bill provides, in practice, compensatory measures on islands and is the second bill of the government, following the bill of the Ministry of National Defence which provided for the possibility of bankers serving on islands, which implements the Isle of Insularity clause, which you have voted on, you have never implemented it. This bill provides, in practice, compensatory measures on islands, as I said, with a view, however, to the islander and the services he enjoys. Our incomplete health coverage of islands is the cause of many tragedies but also of a constant defamation in our country. We've been begging for years for a doctor in Nisserro, Kastelorizo, Kasso. Every time we saw inaugurated regional multi-powered doctors, but who remained duvets, because they didn't have doctors and had no provision in local society. The health of the islands was a splendid field of glory for every bearer of the old political regime. For the first time in a government bill there is special care to serve the health structures of the islands by mere measures, such as increased mobilisation of their term on the islands. The provision that doctors should begin their training must have completed their agricultural policy, which will enrich the staff of health structures. Indicative of the insular welfare but also of our desire for the immediate coverage of the current needs, is that incentives are given to provide many vacancies in nursery and insular areas. In addition, what mayors and regional managers themselves have proposed as a solution for so many years is institutionalized, that is to say, that the ATTs are responsible for subsidising the existing vacancy of their district doctors. Already most regions of the country, the region of South Aegean, have taken decisions to grant doctors to the small islands. And since we are talking about local government and a lot of talk about this amendment, I will remind you that the years of fat cows in the 2000s, when we had money and had the opportunity to hire the hospitals, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK did not offer any staff but with various terrestrials, such as program contracts with "GALENOS" and other companies, hired for eight months and effectively led by an indirect way of financing the operation of the hospital. We, then, give the opportunity to those who want to help. To those who don't want it, it's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the philosophy of this bill hides the essence of the Left. The other way of command and our class obsession, as you are accusing us, for those who have been on the margin of a system that you have cut and sewed into your measures, is the basic principle governing this legislation. The parallel program is dedicated entirely to those who have no voice and to those who believed that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government can bring changes even under the weight and the blackmailing of the implementation of an agreement. I am talking about the recognition and institutionalisation of the working rights of children working with public works programmes. Do you remember how you handled 'STAGE'? Remember the unemployed's armies that you had them give credentials to your offices for a job without insurance and benefits? Finally, this bill concerns the two and a half million uninsured, independent of origin or nationality, for which full and free access to public health is ensured, open hospitals for all, with social policies by a government, which focuses on human beings. This is for us, ladies and gentlemen, the proof of the social necessity of our Government and our parallel Programme. This bill is only the beginning of the firing of a vicious and neoliberal state, which you have been building with or without monuments for so many years, a state that only served the intertwined and cultivated corruption. We will be here - and you and us - during this government's term of office to see us build a welfare and social justice with the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u935	Thank you, Mr. Nektario Santorinio. Mr. Dimitris Dimitriadis has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u936	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our Government is faithful to the line of truth and also to its policies of dignity, it is tabling another piece of legislation to support the social state, to speed up the government's work. Our firm commitment to supporting the weak and those affected by the crisis combined with the reconstruction of the state and the economy brings this bill. It is another important step along the way to democratic a way out of the crisis. It is not the parallel program, because it simply cannot be carried out in parallel with a single bill. It is a link in a chain of parallel actions, the parallel of which is evolving as a result of the difficult summer agreement which is extremely important for balancing the overall governmental work. We know - and we see every day, of course - that the budgetary margins are narrow and therefore alternative policies cannot be spectacular. Also, this correlation at this juncture occurs, being assisted by the old powers of the old system that play their change in our current failure. In the summer, they had their ally on the Yunger package. In December they had their ally the letter of the law, so that this important and necessary agreement is not reached for hundreds of thousands of uninsured Greeks and all users of public free health. This six-month delay is the only fact for which we are obliged and feel the need to apologise. Where? In solidarity movements, in Greek citizens, in the tested people. But it's also a lesson for us. It is an important lesson about the size of social and political struggles that are conducted on the grounds of the rights of the working people of the country and how they will be recovered. So the result of insistence on our principles and in our programme is this bill. The result of the deprivation of our relationship with movements and social struggles is today's ending. As a result of the lesson we have learned, it is our self-renunciation and patience in speeding up all government work and our political programme. It is well known to all of us that, with the economic and humanitarian crisis, thousands of our fellow humans, directly affected by it, have been excluded from access to public health structures. In other words, they have been excluded from their inalienable right, as defined by the World Health Organisation and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of Man. As part of the negotiations and following the summer compromise, the Government has indeed delayed the implementation of its programme commitments in respect of the health sector for all. It now legislates this important part and the adoption of the provisions of the bill is urgent because of the shortcomings and dramatic needs of the ERC. This intervention in the health sector takes place just one year after our first programme statements, where we were committed to the immediate resolution of the unsafe issue. At this time we were given an opportunity to discuss with all this world and all these movements that supported and established our conviction of these necessary changes. It is a given that this arrangement wants no one to be excluded from free access to full medical care and care. In order for the institutional restoration of free and free access to all uninsured persons to be fully taken into account, however, certain conditions are required. The first is a brave funding, which we have already done. We have provided for an additional 830m euros in the budget, allocated to social welfare. The second is the operational upgrading of the ESS. We've already started reforming primary health care. Thirdly, it is the necessary recruitment and adequate electronic infrastructure - which we have already started with, and with this bill, we believe we are spectacularly complementing. Here you will allow me to join my voice with the solidarity movements, which give battle for the dignity of all of us, where the fire burns, such as the islands, Idomeni, social medicine, the homeless, the human suffering. I should like to denounce the propaganda campaign launched by the New Democracy and the well-known media against this very important legislative initiative of our Government, which concerns not only, as they say, medical coverage, but also the diagnostic tests and the hospitalisation of the insecure residents of our country. Their aim is, as I said before, to bring the government in touch and prevent it from moving forward. They insist to the extent to which health trade and the demonstration and targeting of migrants and refugees, that is, they insist on investing in racism and social exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I wish to focus on the main pillars of the draft law, to cover the huge gaps in the National Health System, to free access to health units and to the contribution of local government to the service of these processes and to the reconstruction of the country. Firstly, I mention, for example, that this draft law solves to a large extent issues that regulate and dismantle the procedures for the crisis and the appointment of medical staff in health establishments, such as hospitals, health centers, CYPD structures, and thus cover gaps and needs in the space. There is concern about resolving the problems of the payments of medical and scientific staff, as well as internal mobility issues, posting of workers to the ESS and regulating issues relating to the ESAB. In addition, with the present provisions of this law that is being promoted, the government is meeting the needs of diagnosis, care, pharmaceutical prescribing of all insecure citizens and their families. We must add to them all the vulnerable groups of refugees and migrants. In view of the time that has elapsed, I would also like to state the following. The fact that New Democracy claims that the issue of Greek insurers has been settled on its day reveals its established political practice: hooding and misleading. Because we all know that they just gave, under pressure from movement and needs, the possibility only of uninsured people who had AMKA to prescribe medicines and nothing else. They had no access to diagnostic tests, no hospitals or surgery. If the incident was considered too urgent and the uninsured patient was hospitalized, the bill of hundreds or thousands of euros was being sent to the tax office. So they cannot be measured by historical checks. They don't want to achieve any alternative plan to escape the crisis. They want the perpetuation of injustices, in the name of the organized interests of the oligarchy and their companions. We're changing this scenery. We insist we're not the same. We are the ones who will pass with the whole society standing on the bank where hope gave birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u937	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Mr. Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u938	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow we are voting on the so-called parallel programme - there will be many continuations of parallel programmes - which the Opposition fought as much as anything else. He left the House before Christmas and succeeded - provoking and inviting, in essence, the lenders - to transfer his vote for two months. But what did he understand? He delayed covering the uninsured. He delayed the operation and opening of the Santorini Hospital. He delayed motives in rural and other doctors in remote and island regions. It has delayed a number of beneficial provisions, particularly the Ministry of Health, which are in this bill. You told us that since the 11 billion of Thessaloniki we have reached a programme of 100 million. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, that these 11 billion have been implemented and institutionalised: the humanitarian crisis law, the law for placing hundreds of doses in the DUs and in the insurance funds, the law for the re-establishment of the ERT, the law for the reintroduction of the fireds. How much do you cost? Are you costing 100 million? Because today you are actually coming in a simplistic way to make a reasonable irrational leap, trying to tell us that the entire costing of our programme is 100 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u939	The Accounting Office says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u940	But you forgot what was institutionalized last year. You also told us that you had covered the uninsured. Who were you uninsured, ladies and gentlemen? The ones to which the bill came home when they came out of the hospital and they still owe DU charges to the various hospitals to which they entered? Those uninsured people you covered? Who do you think you're kidding? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brutsis, who once again spoke about the hospital, is not here for the second time when I speak. I spoke to the committee the first time. I'm talking to plenary right now. It was extracted from the battles in the House. He couldn't stand it, as the Opposition seems. Here, we're almost all of Coupling now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u941	Ten-15 hours is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u942	Let's sit down. He's a parliamentary representative. He told us things once again. He laughed at the lack of a budget, the lack of an organizational and planning plan, etc. And he forgot to talk about the responsibilities of the governments in which he was very well-designed, a closed hospital for four years to pass in private hands, and he knows very well that the covenant he made and donated the plot of Santorini's Holy Metropolis had laid the vocabulary that it would work in public character. I said to the committee, and I repeat: the previous chairman of the public limited company - who is not private, Mr Karathanasopoulos and colleagues of the JRC, but is a public legal person under the supervision of the Ministry of Health - had said that we would overcome the skeleton of public health - that is what he said to me in private debate - because otherwise it is publicity, another public function, suggesting that there will be private operation. He also tried to privatize Mr Vorides and Mr Adonis Georgiadis in the previous phases as ministers for health. Some contractors had even been found. All of this hides it from the Greek people and from the beasts. Santorini Hospital will be opened. It would have gone too far already. There is also a budget of five million recorded in the AEMY budget, with a code guaranteed specifically for Santorini, which is under the Greek state budget. There are also other resources institutionalised, which will also be transferred by transferring the health centre, etc. The budget therefore exists, the hospital will be publicly opened on an island of global tourist destination, which accepts at least one and a half million tourists each year. From there on, there is a timeframe, the completion of the AEMY operating regulation, there is the partnership, the programming contract between AEMY and the 2nd AEMY, and all of this forms the conditions for starting the operation of the hospital. The opposition has been up these days, trying to defend the President of the CEDEFOP, on a completely wrong basis, on the question of the incentives that TAs and legal persons of public law can give to doctors of island and remote areas. He explained to you both the Northern Aegean Region who were yesterday in the Committee of the Regions as well as the mayors of yours, the Anti-Population and the New Democracy, that they have been calling for municipalities and OTAs to be able to meet needs to have elementary doctors in rural doctors, regional doctors, health centers. The regions paid the sums of EUR 300 and 400 a month to these doctors and wanted to give them in May last year, when the meeting took place at the Ministry of Health so that these remote medical establishments could proceed. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So the wrong door again you have hit in the name of Mr. Patolis' defense you are completely out of programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, you are very cheap, you are very shallow, you do not convince the Greek people. That is why SYRIZA, the ANELs and our Government will progress steadily as long as there are justified displeasures in parts of the Greek people about the implementation of a difficult agreement, which we will overcome with today's parallel programme, but also with other parallel programmes, which are about to be in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u943	Mr. Focas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u944	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through a range of ministerial amendments, additions and deductions at the last minute, changes and arrangements - a feature of the incredible clandestineness that characterizes you in everything - the famous parallel programme of the Government has come to Parliament for discussion. It is essentially your hopeless attempt to convince you of your so-called philosophical efforts, to show a social person, to change your policy mix. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that you can no longer convince anyone or yourself. You know yourself that this project is a drop in the ocean, it does not even respond to the real needs of Greek society. The most important thing is that it's an inappropriate program that's doomed to stay on paper. Wait, finally, to the extent of the circumstances. Stop hiding. Say the truth at last. There's no money for these crumbs you want to share, pretending to be a social policy. Your arrogance has now reached other levels. You were not ashamed to call the so-called extreme right-wing farmers, who arrived here from all over Greece, here in the Constitution, to protest about the lies you shared with them in the election campaign. But many of the people you described as far-right voted for, ladies and gentlemen, to sit here. Sadly, you were baptized in the swimming pool of power, becoming a scratch of the system that you once denounced. The same irresponsible attitude towards scientists, free professionals, the self-employed. You are leading them to economic extermination with your famous insurance plan, which is only taxing and vengeance standing against them. Your mutation from the next day you took over the fates of the country is now certain to be studied by the history of the future. However, let us talk about the practice of the bill you are bringing to the vote. At the moment, the public health system in the country does not exist in substance. Hospitals operate thanks to the friendly and touching efforts of fewer workers, who are making superhuman efforts to stand up to the circumstances. We remember Mr. Tsipras denounce in April 2015 that “health poverty, exclusions and inequality in care have eroded fundamental human and social rights in our country”. Nice words. But one year later, the Prime Minister has done little to restore the inequality he has rightly denounced. In Greece of 2016, many hospitals do not have dialysis filters, as the kidney patients themselves denounce, while in other hospitals the filters come from third world countries, with the quality of Greeks passing to second degree. In Greece 2016 one of the largest hospitals in the country, Papageorgiou is faced with the risk of locking, as the debts of EEAO exceed EUR 210 million, the same time that the same measures and weightings as the other public hospitals in the country do not apply to its financing. In Greece 2016 the "second time left" puts "in the bed of Procrostis" and the Greek SOS village in Filio Thessaloniki, inviting it to pay 30,000 euros. You know that! You have really been sloppy on the concept of the word 'left'. Regarding the bill, we hear about the health coverage of uninsured citizens and vulnerable groups, as well as about facilitating recruitment and providing incentives to cover positions in barren line health centres. In fact, you have committed that this provision also applies to the cases of the insured - uninsured debtors of the EUPM, who are now unable to respond to their insurance contributions. You are talking about two and a half million citizens, whose exclusion is withdrawn from the health system. Indeed, the Minister for Health added that the money from the implementation of this new social policy will be provided by the EEA. We are now going to the zone of absurdity. By whom, Minister? From the well-known EPPY, who owes all over the place? Will this EEAS support the health coverage of thousands of refugees, migrants and our compatriots, who are unable to respond because of the economic crisis? So you're going to face the humanitarian crisis and health poverty? In words of air and money that don't exist? Who are you kidding? To avoid talking about the ambulances in the EKA, where there is no provision for the renewal of the older fleet, for the terrible shortages in consumables, which result in the loss of human life as a nightmare. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the parallel programme is a 'parallel mockery'. It is not going to solve problems, it cannot deal with the country's sanitary poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u945	Leave nothing for the others! Say something about the others!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u946	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u947	I urge you again to reassert with the truth, because your Greek people understood. At least retire with dignity. Listen to the Central Association and dare for a universal government!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u948	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u949	The price of your populism will be paid sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u950	It's the turn of Mrs. Arabaji who I see isn't here. Mr. Stephen has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u951	Ladies and gentlemen, "The House meeting tomorrow, Saturday, for the Prime Minister to have a audience, is a concept of sub-Saharan Africa's parliamentaryism". Mr. Dendias wrote these. I didn't say it. You are aware of the New Democracy's view of opening up shops on Sundays, but also about many white nights of work, to purchase, allegedly, citizens. Both the New Democracy rapporteur and the PASOK rapporteur in their positions suggested that the reasons for the draft law today and tomorrow were the same as Mr Denkias. They are disturbed by the presence of the Prime Minister in the House. You don't mind. Not to be informed, not to inform the Greek people of the results of the summit by the Prime Minister of the country! Otherwise, do you know what you'd say? The Prime Minister's hiding! Yesterday New Democracy, with its paradoxical enthusiasm, dressed innocently pigeons. He gave a press conference entitled "The Black Health Bible in one year of governance SYRIZA - ANEL". "In fact, he shared a large volume with the government's pre-election promises. With whose kind sponsorship? Who paid them?’ I would remind you that since 2004 the military opposition has promised a health system better than that of Denmark. What New Democracy and PASOK handed over was a health system completely destroyed, as evidenced by the collapse of all health indicators, but also the image of society that has lived and experienced a severe crisis. It is the party of the New Democracy that made the Greek version of the doctrine "shock and awe", after it was challenged and abused over your days the public health system was brutal. In addition, it is relatively recent that Mr Georgiadis' interview - March 2014 was - as a Minister of Health, who is angry with the people who are not all responsible for anything and become addicted to free-health logic - so he said - and ended up in his interview: "We are feeding the public with free, as if free-health is the obligation of the state." You said that. Your Minister. Talk to you in the New Democracy about public health is self-sufficient and cynical. Who will forget that famous thing: 'If there are doctors' redundancies at the EEA, please do not want the troika to be charged. I don't want Tomsen taking my glory for self-evident things. The decisions are mine." Remember. Mr. Georgiadis, the one you considered the Memorandum of Blessing. New Republic Mr. Georgiadis! Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years with the policies of the New Democracy, the public structures of the ERC have shrinked. He put first - grade health care, the patients left to their fate. No doctors, nurses or paramedical staff were assigned. Insurers should either pay out of their pockets or neglect their health. No reason for the medical coverage of the uninsured and the insured, since as much as the public pharmaceutical expenditure was being reduced, the public was being penalised. Between 2012 and 2014, public pharmaceutical expenditure fell by 52%, while private sector expenditure from 11.5% was launched at 23.5%. By numbers, he lost 1 billion a year. Of course, this has not prevented you from providing immunity to the big time, not to collect, but to grant new loans to the canalarchs and publishers, not to repay the party loans, but rather to receive new, deeper bury all kinds of Lagard lists and to allow strife and corruption to reap. I will not forget the sale of the Agricultural Bank, which has been sold with it, and the properties of the farmers for whom you are currently dealing with. And you think they believe you! Of course, I'm passing through, we've got the Borgians list. Turns out there was intervention from the PM in 2012 to avoid coming to Greece. We expect less hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy! What does this bill bring? I will only say briefly two things, because the MPs and the ministers have developed it. Three and a half to four thousand recruitments in health structures, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff. You know, without people, health structures don't work. Health coverage for all insurers and immigrants. We may not go to the Church, but man and "love each other" have it in our hearts. Nor are we associated with what he says, health for Greeks, which is the view of the Golden Dawn. And it can be seen from the position of your MPs that you are plucking that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u952	Did I say anything like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u953	Not you. Others have said so. I am just talking about you because you are the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u955	A rise of 300 million in hospital expenditure for this year. Improve occupational issues of medical and nursing staff. Operation of the service councils. These are just a few things that this bill has. And, of course, they have been said by previous speakers. But I wonder, although PASOK is not here, why would the bill be voted against? Mrs Christophilopoulou in her speech said, "All of this we had in our programme." So why would they vote against it? Two things contagious to infant nurses. They're hard workers. They worked eight hours a day. Do you know what it's like to be with a babysitter eight hours a day? And instead of focusing on the highly neoliberal view, we are increasing the working hours, we should be discussing here, 'yes, we should be well placed to see how we appoint teachers in these posts so that they can do their job properly'. As far as local government is concerned, many mayors welcomed the decision on a voluntary basis to contribute with their forces where necessary. We're in a state of emergency. Citizens are aware of it. I wonder why the Members of the New Democracy and the PASOK do not understand it. I'm closing up with a word about Mr. Bernardakis, because a lot has been said today. The fruiting trees strike in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u956	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u957	Will the ministers respond to the amendments tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u958	Yeah, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u959	Mr. Diaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u960	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, we cannot see everything black. Okay, you have the right not to agree, but not all black. Thus, every good intention is questioned and undermined. In this spirit, we are not helping the Greeks or the new generation. Nor is the argument sufficient, 'you yourself did the same'. We must once agree on what we agree, not disagree with what we agree. We're not going anywhere like this. A normal citizen, a normal man watching us, will lose every idea of both the political and the political system. My colleague, Parliamentary spokesman for the JRC, told us earlier that the bill does not make any redistribution since there are no provisions that take the money from industrialists and give it to the people. Indeed, this law does not revolutionise. But what do we do? We are resolving issues of vulnerable groups. The bill contains provisions on health workers and incentives for critical doctors, public works programmes, exemption of vulnerable groups from municipal charges and electricity provision, the JEPs for the poor to provide information on social benefits. It is therefore a bill that will solve a number of problems and reduce social strata that suffer. As a representative of the political ecology and the Green Party, who worked with SYRIZA and supports the government, I am here to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Economou, the priorities for a sustainable economy and a sustainable and fair society set by the political ecology. I insist that, in every bill, in every design, but also in every action, the issues of sustainability must be a priority and must nurture legislation and political practice. I would also like in this bill to be evident the issues that stimulate local economies, which make our national economy more strong and unpopular, as well as in every way and measure to strengthen agricultural production, in the context of the sustainability and food self-sufficiency of the country. While the bill has too many positive provisions, as I said before, the elements of sustainability do not mean it as a whole. When we talk, for example, about public work and the recovery of unemployment, we need to see what this population has and we need to talk about young people and unemployed people from enterprises that close down and young people and older people who need to retrain in the economic sectors that we want to stimulate, with a strategic sustainability plan. We must not forget the element of decentralisation and the rationale for supporting the region, which should also be in the hands of this bill. Young people should join regional programmes, rural activities, be trained in agricultural production and processing and not simply recruited in municipalities for a few months. And then what? That is why I specifically propose to the terms of competence of the Ministry of Labour, to the social work programmes financed by the NSRP, which will be drawn up by the Ministry of Labour and not by the OAED, that municipalities with a full picture of the labour market and local needs. The experience so far is discouraged. Eight-month customer contracts were hired, with no specific object, without gaining the experience that they will need in the future. Thus, resources of the NRP have been wasted, with temporary support for young people, but nothing else. In Article 7(2) concerning training programmes, 'Actions for employment and training courses' and paragraph 2, 'Cooperation with the local labour market for the integration of the unemployed', this point needs specialization and supplementation: '... and training for young people and the social economy'. The agricultural sector should be emphasised. The unemployed are able to participate in local municipality programmes. It is not about keeping the unemployed in towns and supporting them with pre-emptive aids and seasonal employment in the public sector, but about taking steps to cooperate on business and creative activity. In the second chapter, in the provisions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in Article 10, 'Recommendation of a Committee on the revision of the institutional framework of Local Government', I note that this body provided for in the bill is very large. Twenty-six members are scheduled. It has to be a few or subcommittees, so that it can meet quickly and produce results. The Heads of Divisions, too, are likely to be unable to participate and that is why the committees do not work. Another point I would like to raise - I do not have much time - concerns the divestment of municipal properties to homeless people. This Article provides for an eight-year extension for the fulfilment of the obligations of the municipality of the homeless or economically weak, to which the property or plot has been granted for the construction of a dwelling. In view of the fact that the loan provided for by the law for the building of homeless persons does not exist with the current data, since no bank gives loans, this beneficial provision is effectively annulled. The same is true of the possibility of renting municipal agricultural land. I therefore suggest that municipalities move to social housing, making use of empty buildings and granting agricultural land - public, ecclesiastical or abandoned - without people paying rent for some time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. Also, an exemption from municipal fees. What do I suggest? I propose that the unemployed be compensated by work and services to social and other activities of the municipality according to specialisation. There are unemployed people who have to pay something to the municipalities. We need to learn not just to give but to tell them: 'Come and offer something to the municipality. What are you? Professor? Do this." So that contributors and people are offset to work, instead of staying and moaning at home. Finally, I would like to propose on health issues that a kind of assessment should be carried out of the units and parts of hospitals according to their performance. It's got to be a way to remove the briefcase. This illness is still going on. I've got a lot of complaints that's going on today. A legitimate way of rewarding good doctors who offer good services, treat a large number of patients and perform many interventions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u961	Good, Mr. Deiaras. We had to start the suggestions, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u962	I shall conclude, Mr President. I appreciate and hope that left-wing governance will also integrate sustainability policies along with social justice and that it will vindicate the choice of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u963	Mr. Castores has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u964	Ladies and gentlemen, such as the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament impose, opposition must do its job. He has to make opposition tough, strict. After all, democracy demands it too. But not with distortions that insult our intelligence. We are talking here not just about the loss or absence of a political culture but about the lynching of logic. Example today: Since morning you have been making a great effort to change the meaning of words, to baptize the word "maybe", which is in Article 90 of today's draft law and to call it "impossible". The possibility we give the municipalities to contribute, to help in public health, you're trying to turn it into an obligation, that it's a coercion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u965	The CCT is saying this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u966	So try in every way using trade unionists and mayors of yours to set up a festival. In fact, I noticed yesterday morning your trade unionists knocking rolls outside the Ministry to get in, making press statements "The money was found, they will be taken from the municipal fees of the municipalities". They even found out that. You need to inform these trade unionists that in the corridors over the ministries they can only enter to reach the open doors of the ministers, make suggestions, take part in the consultation or confront them. The time has come to go in to make ruffles, lick, or to be able to make their nostrils!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u967	That's a good point of view for trade unionists!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u968	As much as you're trying to create a mess and confusion situation, things are clear. Things are getting simpler and simpler as they come bills like today, despite all the effort you're making to deal with them. The right-wing opposition does everything it can to brake measures that fantasize on her left. The left-wing opposition is trying to distance itself from anything that can alleviate the weak, the vulnerable, because this does not break down the foundations of capitalism. Right-wings characterize every effort as unconstitutional, because it actually hits their party, client state, because it hits strife and corruption. The left is characterized by all these measures in advance because they do not kill the harvest of imperialism. It is true, however, that at the same time society is boiling, but not as they want to present it. It's boiling because society is rushing to see light in the tunnel. She's in a hurry, because she wants to end with the old one. And that's exactly what we're trying to do: Light even a few candles in the dark tunnel, show that there's a way out. Don't be delusional. Society knows very well who got us here today. And he knows very well what will happen if he comes back to power himself. Your president said so, too, the Chief of Officerial Opposition a few days ago from this Step here, that he wants to make the insurance private.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u969	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u970	...that is, to relieve the state of its constitutional obligation to secure citizens, satisfying the neoliberal ideology of the dissolution of any social state that has been able to stand up in these last years of the Memorandum Policy. What do you disagree with, though, gentlemen of the New Democracy and all the Opposition? Do you disagree with Article 50, which says about the transfers, the secondments, the movements of officials to hospitals? Why do you disagree? Do you disagree, because it makes the process more transparent and hits red tape, or because it breaks down those structures that you created, to blackmail consciences, so that you can have political prisoners in health? Do you disagree with Article 33 that covers all uninsured people and not just hospital emergencys, but also diagnostics and medicines? You told us you already did this. It reminds me of the joke he said, "free entrance, you pay the exit." Isn't that what you did, sending the pools to the taxi? Do you disagree with Article 21 of the law that the Ministry of the Interior brought in and refers to the farmers' bail letters? You know that with your previous policy for five years you have been hostageing many farmers, mainly from my own county, but I think some more. Over three hundred and fifty farmers in my county, in my constituency, in Pieria, are bound by bail letters to the banks and each one of them has from 2 000 to 10,000 euros, which you cannot take, because your policy kept them. What have you done to unlock this story? You carried them from a political office to a political office, just to secure party clientele for your election. Do you disagree that we bring it in and make it a law to solve it? Will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u971	We'll vote for the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u972	Then why didn't you all this time solve it and trouble these people for five years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u973	We've been waiting for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u974	Do you disagree with the amendment to restore the allowance for unhealthy work to nurses for the days of their leave? Do you disagree with the recruitment of doctors or the motives given for doctors to come to the barren areas, or do you disagree with the abolition of Mr. Loverdos's provision - missing all this time - who, by his own decision, seized the pensions of mental patients in health services? I think it's time you revealed one more time. I would like to tell you that the parallel programme is not the bill that we are voting on today. The parallel program is a lot of such bills. We will shake you in the next few months with parallel programs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u975	Ladies and gentlemen, would you agree to limit the time to five minutes, so that more Members may speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u976	No, Mr President, we do not agree. In the morning, my colleagues have spoken for ten minutes and we who are here ten and twelve hours have to be confined to half a year. No, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u977	Okay. Since there's no deal, there's no problem. Mr. Kaisha has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u978	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are enacting measures to speed up the government's work. For my part, I will concentrate on this part of health, an area which I have served forty-two years since 1972, an area that I know very well but for which I am particularly concerned. The health system from 2009 to 2014 has suffered enormous deterioration and dismantling. Never, as many years as I remember, had come to this debacle. That's why we didn't hear anything from those who ruled. We didn't hear a trace of self-criticism about how they got the whole system to this mess. Instead, we heard that it was SYRIZA's fault. Over the last five years over two and a half million people have lost their insurance capacity, have been outside the health system. This tragedy I experienced personally from 2012 to 2014, because I participated as a doctor volunteer in a social hospital in Alexandroupolis. Here it was said that these people were covered by primary care. Then how is it possible for three and a half thousand people to have seen in the volunteer hospital, nine hundred vaccinations to have done to unvaccinated children. Mercy! They weren't covering people, and they weren't covered either now. The austerity budgets of hospitals were reduced so that they could not meet their basic needs. He left more than fifteen thousand staff. Not even the one anticipated, one to five, was replaced. Since 2010 no one has been appointed to hospitals. Primary services were dismantled by the dismissal of more than four thousand doctors. The EKT had to get ambulances from the Olympic Games. And that's because there was a complication, there was corruption. Corruption was neither beginning nor ending. One example I will tell you. Twelve years, Alexandroupolis Hospital works without having been received by the Greek state. It would be very interesting to develop it more, but time won't allow me. In this situation we found the health system in the intensive. We know that the measures we have taken - and we need to take more - are just to keep them alive, not to collapse. We are coming to vote on a law now that addresses the main issues. We are aware that this cannot be solved by law. We cannot appoint 15 thousand people to leave this year. I think we should do too much. With the help of the workers in hospitals - I stress this, because the workers in hospitals have kept the whole situation - I think we will be able to do it. The first self-evident step for us was to institutionalise the right for uninsured people to have access to public services. We're strengthening the hospitals with human resources. Three and a half thousand staff will be recruited in 2016. This process is not just planned, it has already begun. It provides EKA with new ambulances, ninety in 2016, and ninety more follow-up. The transfer procedures are speeding up, what everyone has said. It was a downfall for a nurse to move from Athens to the Dumotich to need three signatures of ministers and spend one to two years to make this transfer. This whole process will be carried out directly by the healthcare region. They'll run surgery lists so that everyone can know when to operate and no one can override the show. This will ensure transparency and will not have to pass through other doors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Our vision is not to maintain this system, our vision is to form a new public free care system where everyone will have access to public services. Starting from the neighborhood hospital, which will be connected to health centers, with hospitals, care will be done on the basis of the patient's needs, without suffering and just going to the hospital. We will transfer weight to prevention and primary care. We will do the word of Hippocrates "prevent his call of healing". There was a lot of talk about whether this bill is a parallel program or not. I have a simple thought. Since previous acts, the redundancies from hospitals, the austerity budgets were neoliberalism, the appointments of young people and the increases in budgets are a parallel programme. That is why we must all vote on it so that public health structures can be strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u979	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u980	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill entitled 'Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions', the famous and well-advertised parallel programme of the government. In essence, we are called upon to put in a set of provisions by six ministries, supplementary and corrective provisions concerning its administration and functions. This has been called by the government a parallel programme. To remember, however, how SYRIZA and government officials appeared in the election program. Ladies and gentlemen, last summer, the Anti-Memorandum Government SYRIZA - ANEL, in the name of the Greek National Rescue Programme, voted for the third Memorandum, charging the Greek people EUR 90 billion. The bloc of proud negotiation collapsed along with the delusional government, which in front of the range of bankruptcy and Grexit sent the flag of the race. To excite his party's image as a socially sensitive political area, SYRIZA discovered the parallel program that would negotiate with our partners and run alongside the memorandum. The aim was to mitigate the cost of the memorandum. Personally, in a modern country, the parallel programme would be a structured, developmental programme based on reforms, sectoral and structural changes, a programme that would go beyond the present deadlocks, would cure the pathogenesis and functions of the past. It would be a complex answer to our country, the Greek Government's wish to be the country after one, two, three, five or ten years. It would describe what strategy it will achieve in how long. Unfortunately, the government's parallel programme is not such. It is not even a programme that can, if you like, mitigate the cost of the left-wing government memorandum. It's a pre-election invention of SYRIZA to close the eye on the voters to guard their vote. It is a continuation in the demagogic rhetoric and in the big words, another stone in the excess, in populism and in the lie. Ladies and gentlemen, 80% of the provisions of this bill consisted of micro-regulations, modifications to the ambiguities of earlier laws, which have not been dealt with by circular and ministerial decisions and could only be corrected by legislative provisions, a practice that has occasionally been followed by all governments over the last thirty - forty years. The parallel program is a verbal exaggeration and will be recorded as a myth sooner or later in the consciousness of the citizens. I would like to ask you, and ask yourself, when the parallel programme was being heard everywhere - this title we said is not content, that it is an empty shirt - did you mean the creation of new committees and bodies for the restructuring of the 'Kalikarat' and for social programmes, when there are structures already in place? Did you mean the incineration centers of the dead? Did you mean the provisions on cleanliness at universities and at the TEI? Did you mean abolishing the unsatisfactory draw for the introduction of undergraduate and postgraduate students at the Open University and replacing it with the creative ambiguity of "will the university decide"? Do you mean the recruitment of trainers to second-rate schools from the applicants' lists in 2014-2015? Where's the public administration? Why didn't the new lists come together? What about young graduates who are also young unemployed? They have no right? Or have you, ladies and gentlemen, had you in mind the establishment of compensatory training centres, when there are still appointments of alternates in schools and, in particular, schools? So were these in the minds of the citizen and in your mind the answer to the new insurance policy, the taxation of farmers, the new measures, the disinvestment of the country and unemployment? Legislate, ladies and gentlemen, two ministerial decisions of the governments of the New Democracy which offered hospital and medication to the insurers. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens are looking for substance, result and way out of today's crisis. Our homeland is at a critical crossroads. The assessment has been carried out by the bank of Greece, just last week in this building, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it reported a reduction in the costs of the insurance system. What does that mean? In his statements yesterday, the President of the Eurogroup said that the agreement would include reductions in pensions, despite the government's red lines. The demands of the International Monetary Fund for new measures are given. Ladies and gentlemen, according to official government figures, in 2015, the country closed down with a recession despite the marginal growth of last year. The sacrifices of the Greeks in the previous years were lost. There are responsibilities here. The government's ministers every week announce new taxes to close the gaps in revenue from recession and overtaxation. The Minister of Finance - your Minister of Finance - spoke of bad developments in case the evaluation is late. At these moments our homeland needs a serious government that really wants to give solutions, take responsibility, tell the truth, speak honestly. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL cannot, has followed the path of impressions, is locked between the lies, the illusion it created and the reality that stands like an unsurpassed wall in front of it, cannot go either forth or forth. In conclusion, I would like to dedicate to the SYRIZA rapporteur the song lyrics that he says: 'I send you greetings with two small birds, fewer slogans and more work'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u981	Come on, Mr. Darkness. We are in the spectrum of culture, as you understood. After the song, the theater.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u982	Everyone in poetry has thrown it away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u983	Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u984	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that I understand the difficult position of the Opposition which must reject philosophical measures. In order to escape this difficult position, it requires the government and the majority of government to apologise for the draft law we are discussing. And what was not heard in this Chamber! But you have our understanding. You are extremely dissatisfied with what is contained in this bill and you are struggling for the provisions not to pass, because, in your opinion, they are to the detriment of the Greek people. For you it is unacceptable to have an article for vulnerable social groups free of electricity. You consider the rental subsidy to be an anti-grass measure for those who are helpless and face eviction. It is an anti-grassroots measure for you and the feeding subsidy for all those who have been out of society with your policies for so many years. An antique is for you and the article proposing the six-month suspension of the public auction procedure for the divestment of 'FILKERAM-JOHNSON', which workers need. It is counter-working for you and Article 12 that if an official has been justified by the courts by decisions ordering his or her stay or return to work, while the services need staff, he will not be held hostage to the absolute ban on the resignation of local authorities in legal proceedings with wage content. Did you really ask their employees? Destroy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u985	We're voting for this, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u986	I'm glad you voted, but you haven't done it for so long! SYRIZA should have brought them in to vote. Do you understand why SYRIZA needs it? To vote on these issues, because you have done nothing over the years. I imagine it is a disaster for you, the foundation stone for the creation of a comprehensive framework for the operation of self-government after the gaps and malfunctions of your "Kalikarat", which is recommended by this bill. The fact that the absolute suspension of recruitment of permanent and private staff to treat serious problems in the functioning of local authorities with the possibility of recruiting officials in return services is another disastrous action brought by SYRIZA and ANEL. Really, what it was like to open up jobs! Where are we? SYRIZA can open jobs! It's too bad, we understand that! Destructive all the time. And for people with disabilities. If a disabled person, ladies and gentlemen, served in a legal person under private law, and this ceased to function or was in liquidation, he was on the way. Now, with this bill, it's being transferred to personal positions of private law indefinitely. That's great analgesia too! Three-timers. The protection of third-country families, both through the provision of recruitment to private and public bodies, public services, legal persons governed by public law and local authorities through the mobilisation of parents and of one of the three children is granted. That's a great injustice, too! This morning there were more than a lot of tritecs clubs and they were very happy and excited about this arrangement. So great analgesia, which we should be ashamed of, I imagine. Finally, we operate the Santorini Hospital. What have you been doing all these years? You raised a number of questions on our view, on how the regime was created. What would you like? Shouldn't the hospital work? SYRIZA will operate the hospital for the benefit of the people of Santorini, for the benefit of visitors of winter - summer, in the interests of tourism and health in this place. The question of the reintroduction of municipal police officers to re-established municipal police services after their compulsory transfer from your government to penitentiary hospitals and that is maximum injustice, I imagine! Did you ask the city policemen? Do it. But in this bill, there's something unheard of. Listen to see: It provides for the award of a dangerous and unhealthy work allowance for workers in the harvest, collection and care of waste in cleaning workshops. Great stuff brings this bill! You are also sad about the interventions of the draft law in the field of education. Supporting teaching and additional teaching support for pupils of public high school and high school are provided in the bill. We understand that this compensatory education that is being introduced is not within your policies. For you, private education, like the private security proposed in this Chamber by the President of the New Democracy, along with the others he said about cutting wages, pensions, declining the public sector, is a priority. We understand that. Provisions for the better organisation and operation of the Greek University. Provisions for the training allowances of seafarers. The abolition of the regulations establishing a confiscation of patients' wages and pensions for the repayment of hospitals. What analgesia, too! The salary restoration of doctors transferred from EEAS and from IKA to the ESS's doctors' industry. Arrangements to cover regional hospitals and midwives of insular ferret areas. All this is the destruction recommended by SYRIZA to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is positive and reinforcement of the course to restore to the normal life of Greeks and Greeks. It is recommended by the Government of SYRIZA and ANEL. We understand your difficult opposition position. But if you vote in favour of it, you won't do a good thing to the government. You will have made a positive action for the entire Greek people. I welcome this bill and call on you without fear, but with passion, to vote in favour of all these philosophical measures. Can you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u987	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor. After the theater, the arts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u988	Mr President, the theatre is quite a serious job and I am very honoured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u989	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u990	You're not intermittent, I suppose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u991	Why, aren't visuals?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u992	And I'm especially honored that I was in this space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u993	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u994	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u995	Well, let's see the lookout. We've received enough tension today. It is eloquent and politically and emotionally. I have been very well covered by the developments that have been made by previous colleagues on the characteristics of the bill. It solves issues unresolved so far, the positions of doctors in the barren regions, the small islands, the Furnus, in the mountainous villages of Samos, Ikaria. It facilitates the creation of functional capabilities in a system that so far is not complete, is not compact and does not fuel each other. However, I want to stay on the political side, which has emerged quite strongly. The good colleague, Mr Economou, in his suggestion, said that the Prime Minister is trying to send out the concept of a parallel programme, because he is forged by society and wants to make a diversion - and a number of Members have put it there. Indeed, there is a communication concern. Except it's happening backwards. What SYRIZA does must be wrapped in a veil of evil, so that it cannot be judged, cannot be elected and cannot be critically accepted by the world, be instantly registered, archived, registered on the side of evil. It is what Mr Brutsis said "no society can hear you" to pre-empt society emotionally that what you do is bad. I think this level of political conflict, political opposition, is both outdated and counterproductive and I also think it has reached its limit. People understand that this level of superstitious, totalling zero combat is outdated. We need to talk about this one. What does the bill bring? What can be corrected? What is the improvement proposal on this? This perhaps reveals the shortcomings, complements, provides, builds and builds political culture - what has been seen for many years as having escaped our political system or at least weakened our political system. Mr. Kegeroglu made a very interesting historical retrograde, very realistic - a harsh realism narrative - how we started in 2010, how our Memorandum life matured in previous years and where we are now. And, respectively, I would complete it, how the world was carved, disciplined, reconciled or not with this dark turn of our modern history. The problem is that we are living in a period of structural crisis and we do not have the tools to respond to this structural crisis. The parallel programme, therefore, is a constant step forward - it will not be this bill, it is not the previous bill, it will not be a bill tomorrow's bill - to which opposition with ideas, thoughts, objections, structured, concrete, measured. It is a constant démarche, which should be passed on to the policies of cracks. We have memorial compulsions. No one wants them, no exception. None of the political system wants these coercion. However, we must devise a policy on cracks. This is the parallel program. This ingenuity, in which the government must call upon the entire political system to elect, correct what can be corrected, exploit the little resources and make this great movement of moral economy, not of accounting, the unification of public space. The public space, the scattered structures, the unconnected structures are a great political project. Because the public space and the public good have been shaken in recent years. It is not privatized, but it is detached, depleted, extinct. So this side must be politically inhabited. With this place, with this side of reality we have to go. I think that this is how we can recommend very substantial conflicting relationships, critical health relationships and relationships, which will redeploy our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u996	Thank you for respecting time. Mr. Rizzos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u997	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. We are here to discuss a difficult, cross-sectoral bill, which, as it says, aims to speed up government work. This is a package of measures to accelerate sensitive sectors, support for vulnerable and sensitive social groups. They are simple interventions, but they will have a multiplier effect in critical areas, especially in the health sector from which I come, and they are interfering with chronic pathogens, distortions, injuries that have arisen from neoliberal policy in recent years. They are support measures, better functioning of the ESS, upgrade of the health ministry bodies. Allow me to make a point, without meanness, I believe. Since the morning in the speeches by colleagues from New Democracy, PASOK and the Central Association that the last governments had taken care of our insecure citizens and legal services had covered them, that they were going to hospitals without any problem. However, we are not told why there were - and there are still - these social pharmacies and medicine, these voluntary areas, which are still going to our fellow citizens. Why were all our fellow citizens going there? To take a walk? To see what's going on? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, where did these principles of universality, equal treatment and constitutional principles go? Finally, there is a strong attempt to zero off the government's proposals, to hide the objectives of the bill, while - we cannot hide this, of course - there is a positive comment on the part of the social partners. I will not start to irradiate here, as many colleagues, numbers, so many of us have, so many of us have left. I will not begin to say that we have raised the budgets. That's already known. They have been tabled by other colleagues. I'll talk to you about my place. I know that in Evros, especially in the Hospitals of the Two-Double and Alexandroupolis, who had to see recruitment since 2010, also went to doctors and nursing staff. I know that some regional health services and centres have been covered, and with the latest notices made, it will finally be covered, with at least nursing staff, and the intensive care unit, so that all fourteen beds can be developed. This, as you know, didn't happen from the air, so suddenly. He did it with some particular government, with some particular ministers. We have them here, Mr. Blonde and Mr. Polakis. That's what he's written. We can't erase this. It shows the priorities it has and the will that the current government has. With regard to the strong incentives given to island, barren or inaccessible areas, we have seen these things before. You know, these were included in old bills and with Mr. Avramopoulos in the last negotiation that he had made with the Hospital Doctors Federation and the only contract he had signed, a collective public doctor contract, the doctor of the HSH, for the Ministry of Health. But unfortunately, they were circumvented, disappeared along the way. They don't exist anymore. I think it is also one of the measures which is particularly aimed at young scientists, young colleagues, because it provides them with facilities and to provide their services in these areas. As far as local government is concerned, why are we forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, that local government is the closest principle to our fellow citizens, regardless of how KALIKRATS got it? It is that principle, which comes to help, particularly in the small and remote communities, in matters of health. And she'll paint and clean up the district office and she'll give oil or wood to keep warm, and she'll generally offer everything in her hand. She had been legally deprived of this until now. These arrangements give them this possibility. We're not saying it's all done and it's all over. That's the beginning. They will follow, as we have been told, and the issues of supplies, particularly in the health field and the issues of primary health care, which, unfortunately, have not left her alone in recent years. I'll tell you something personal by closing down, colleagues. Recently I hear repeating that SYRIZA Members will not be able to come out in society because they fear and hide. I'll tell you this: We were, we're and we'll be one with the Greek society. We will continue to fight with it to deal with all the problems. We will neither hide nor hesitate, no matter how much you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u998	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u999	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is a great honour that you are both here to put some things slowly in place. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. We're not all the same. Today we have lived up to the Prime Minister's battle on immigration. However, the Prime Minister had the happiness of having a Head of Representation, who came to Europe and supported national positions. Tell me once that Antonis Samaras had the happiness to have before Tsipras and to support Greece's positions. Not even one! We're not the same. And here's why we're not the same in this bill. I, Mr Ministers, have never let myself in politics, when I present a piece of legislation or a political initiative, not to mention the work of my predecessors, regardless of a party, if I think they have done something. And, of course, life progresses, governments change, ministers change - no one is permanent - and the next one can correct or improve something from what the previous one did. But it is another thing to want to improve something that the previous speaker has done and another to come to the House - you will allow me to say it - unrealisticly and to present as a huge change something that has already been done. So what do you present today and write your newspaper, AUSY, your sites, all of them? 'First time coverage of two and a half million uninsured'. So let's explain it in turn. I want to explain, and I'll wait to answer, because I see you a little lively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1000	You'll hear them later!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1001	I heard you very well. What was the argument of Mr Polakis' Deputy Minister? He said: "How do you explain that there are social hospitals, after covering the uninsured?" First, social hospitals were created before our own laws. Before! Then there wasn't a single one made. Why were they made before? For for two and a half years and amidst the crisis, too many of our fellow citizens of time, who had lost their insurance cover, were found not to have access to the system. When did that change? In June 2014. How did it change? With three steps: by the law that we passed on to primary school in March 2014, where in Article 1 we were giving everyone, regardless of insurance cover for primary school, with my ministerial decision to access hospital care and with the decision of Maki Voridis on medicines. What's left of it? What changes your decision and is the only one that has not been completed? Access to diagnostic tests and health centres. Access to the ETS was guaranteed by law. It had not come out of a circular - it did not even need a law - which would clarify that what was done with the EMS and hospital health centres, after they joined the new system, would have to be part of Article 1 of the law, because, indeed, the administrations of health centres had done their own arbitrary interpretation. I mean, what you do today could have been corrected with a circular! He says Mr. Deputy Minister for Social Medicines. You should be aware that social doctors are mostly in need of care, those who do not even have to pay for their participation. What did we do and what did you do? No change. What did we decide in June 2014? Any uninsured person who has an electronic recipe and goes to any private pharmacy in the country takes his medications by paying for the participation he would pay if he was insured. This has been done automatically by the system for over a year and a half. You do the same now. In social hospitals there are indeed too many, those who do not even have to pay for their participation are still going. They would normally have to take a booklet of wonder in both our law and yours. That is exactly the same, with the difference that for bureaucratic reasons many cannot take and end up in social medicine. No change has been made in this with this piece of legislation and you can't do it. Because if you give the uninsured free medical coverage without any participation, then no insurance will be paid tomorrow, because of course the uninsured people will be ahead of them. So, concentrating on you, you haven't changed anything. What have you changed just so I don't blame you, Mr. Xanthi? You have removed the three-member care committee. Let's go see if what you're doing is right. We'll see if it is. We, the three-member committee, put it in order to have it as a regulator and not to have a transaction. We also had, if you remember, something that you also removed - to tell the differences - the referral back to the TEN. Why did we put the referral back from the CDC? You, as doctors both, you know, I imagine, better than me that all the guidelines of the World Health Organisation say you need to connect primary school to hospital care and you need to do the primary care warden. So what did we do, Minister? I'll teach you a little lesson now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1002	The doorkeeper!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1003	Crystal, yes. "Gate keeper" is spoken in English, if you don't know it, in the hospital terminology. So don't give me any lessons. I've learned it better than you. So, listen to what we did: we put the two and a half million insecure as the first part of the population, starting the normal course from primary to hospitals. And of course this would have been completed if you had recruited primary health care and had put the family doctor for the whole population. Instead of going on to do it for the whole population, as it says the serious states need to do the World Health Organisation, you remove it and the 2.5 million that we have put in it. You don't take a step forward. Step back. These are fine letters for SYRIZA! I was listening to a colleague who said 'it bothers you that SYRIZA is giving up jobs'. You guys have to live in another country. Is that right? You must live in another country. It doesn't explain any differently. We don't live in the same country, however. It's certain we don't live in the same. If you think that jobs are now being born in Greece and on closed roads the economy is better off and the world is happy for SYRIZA's jobs, if that's what SYRIZA MPs think, something is not right at all. And what do you do now to see all this? You start the usual mud. I've read before in "SUNDAY" - great discovery! - On Samara's order, he says, the Borgians list wasn't received, according to a document that Kotzias wrote out. It would be worth not mentioning at all, but I cannot bear to show the Greek people the size of the Gempel propaganda. Borgians himself has been on a show of "SKAI", the journalist asked him when he received the list and replied: "In the spring of 2015". How did the Hellenic Republic not receive three years ago a list for which the one who gave it to us says that he received it in spring 2015? On the same show the journalist asked him: "Didn't you have any prior communication with the Greek Government?" "Yes, we did. We had asked for technical assistance. And then we were told that this cannot be done between the Hellenic Republic and the state, but between the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Government." This paper, that is to say, that technical assistance cannot be provided by a federal state, but by the federal government - that was already done in the context of the programme anyway - is presented today by the 'AUGY' to the great discovery, that the New Democracy did not receive by order of Bourras - Samaras the list that was not in 2012, because he gave it to us that it was made in the spring of 2015. Is that how you want to rule? With mud? Lies? Is that what you think will save you from what's coming? It won't save you, Mr. Ministers. Neither will today's propaganda with the uninsured save you where you've messed up, as usual. And to say one last thing about Thera's Hospital, so I don't forget about it, he's involved with it, says, especially Mr. Paulakis, if I understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1004	Just don't forget the time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1005	In thirty seconds I'll be done, Mr. President. Thank you and a thousand apologies. Listen, Minister, Thera Hospital belongs to "Aemy S.A." If you put two classes of doctors in it, you'll necessarily have two classes of doctors, no matter what you do. You're saying you're going to give $5 million this year. You're saying more. That's right. We had estimated 6 million that it would cost time. That's what you have to do every year, not for a year. And what was our solution that was PPP? Our solution said that it does not give 1 euro to the Greek State, the hospital works tomorrow, in the competition full access to all the residents of Santorini as if it were a hospital, we would not give the 5 million and the health center would be open. What are you doing? Close the health center, get 5 million of the state budget, get two gear doctors and in two, three, four years, somewhere on this route will adorn the hospital like the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1006	Let's give it all up to PPP to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1007	Sure. A good solution would be the PPPs. The PPPs would be a nice solution. Now that you are slowly coming to our positions, you have brought NATO to the Aegean Sea, you have sold the port of Piraeus, you have signed a memorandum, now, Minister, the time for the SYRIZA PPPs is coming. You'll get it back, one by one, because you've said a lot of lies, you've said a lot that can't be done, and today your bill is a propaganda monument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1008	Mr. Jamaklis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1009	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1010	Here you go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1011	Because of the lesson that Mr Georgiadis gave me, in relation to his medical knowledge, on the basis of his professional experience, I will tell you this, Mr Georgiadis: You started the gate keeping from the insurers of this country. Why do you forget you've thrown two and a half thousand people out on one night?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1012	Please! The Members of Parliament, at least in the middle of the night, are entitled to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1013	Who dissolved primary health? You are the one who crumbled any primary structure there was to push people into private centers. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1014	Did I go down? I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1015	Do not repeat your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1016	Wait a minute, because this is where he throws air talk and he thinks we're eating hay. Secondly, this will accompany you, Mr Georgiadis. This closure of the IKA and EOPY doctors will accompany you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1017	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1018	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1019	And you don't save it with what you put gate keeping. You didn't just put gate keeping with the referral, you also signed debt acceptance. The one who went to the hospital...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1020	There's nothing you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1021	No, there isn't. We're going to put you through a lot of documents. In your imagination, it may not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1022	The law doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1023	In fact, the patients who went and signed debt acceptance and took the pool to the tax office are well available. Wipe the sweat, then. Another thing I wanted to say about Santorini. Things are simple. Was it ready from 2011, yes or no? Why didn't you open it? Why did you bazaar to give it to private interests? We're opening it. And we open it quickly with AEMY, which is a public-owned S.A..
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1024	Put an end to it, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1025	We describe them very thoroughly. With AEMY we'll open it until spring for this season to work this way. The two classes of doctors who will be in, the ones who will be seconded by other hospitals or transferred there from the health centre or hired by AEMY, will be full-time and full-time civil servants. And don't worry at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1026	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1027	We gave five and a half this year, we'll give time and the next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1028	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1029	Mr. Georgiadis, please. We will not turn the process into Mr Polakis' debate with Mr Georgiadis, because apart from documents, we will also need a recipe here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1030	We're wasting time for no reason. I am entitled to the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1031	You may alternate until morning on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1032	He said my name. It is the definition of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1033	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1034	Don't say my name, so we don't keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1035	Minister, first for IKA's doctors, don't talk. Mr Blonde in the committee said: 'Now, with the distance of time, I recognise that the conversion of the EEA only as a purchaser of health services was a proper reform'. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1036	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1037	You have made a decision, Mr Xanthi, that the doctors of the EEA - to whom you promised to re-entry to the EEAS - should decide by the end of this year whether to keep their medical office or whether to enter the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1038	They're eggs with potatoes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1039	While you laughed at them when I was Minister of State, Mr. Xanthi, that you would get them back and give them the right to have their medicine...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1040	You are now going to create a personal issue with Mr. Blonde.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1041	...you came as Minister and did what I decided, without telling them an apology. So, don't let your neighbor play harder and teach us lessons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1042	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1043	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1044	I'm not afraid of you, I'm not like the others. I'm not afraid of you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1045	Don't worry, I've got you easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1046	As far as Thera Hospital is concerned, this year it will fail, because you are closing down the health center to do all that you do. Mr. Deputy Minister, listen to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1047	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. We'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1048	By the time you are not, we will again look for money to fix it, because this solution that we wanted to implement would last and not cost the public, while what you are doing is what you do permanently: Half of jobs and arrogant ones. That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1049	Mr President, on personal occasions. Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1050	But Mr. Blonde spoke, who by courtesy doesn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1051	He hopes our predecessor - not to say his name - that next year won't be us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1052	By summer, it won't be you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1053	You know what they say in Crete? "Where's the old lady in her wrath, she likes them in her dream."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1054	I don't see you on a block now! You've been nicknamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1055	Come on, the cameras show you! More!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1056	I've got a lot of cameras. I don't need to!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1057	Only the time is one at noon, and we've been here since morning, while you're here now. Respect colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1058	They're right, Mr. Georgiadis. You're here, you've exhausted your personalities, and you're leaving. Good night. Mr. Jamaklis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1059	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After the ping pong between Mr Polakis and Mr Georgiadis, I should also like to speak for a moment, Mr President, not to waste time. The opposition was raped two months ago to speak about withdrawal of the parallel programme. The government, however, keeps its commitment and restores it. His vote is causing severe reactions from the side of the Opposition. An argument has been developed which, from a political point of view and from a moral point of view, is both petty. This attitude raises reasonable questions. Why does opposition not want to deal with issues relating to the resolution of daily serious problems of millions of citizens in the critical health sector? Is it because it is attempting for the first time to erupt client structures and abolish a civil hostage system? Is it because the government is starting to implement, despite the current suffocating economic framework, the parallel programme to ease the consequences of the crisis? It will be interesting, Mr Economou - it is not here now - that the government ask for a roll-call vote on some articles. The regulations of the bill, as well as those introduced by PPS, are clearly a social counterweight to the effects of the economic and humanitarian crisis. More serious regulation is the free and complete health, hospital and pharmaceutical coverage of hundreds of thousands of uninsured people, who, because of a crisis, have been out of cover with Article 56. Only medical and hospital coverage, as well as diagnostic tests, will be provided with the AMKA number. It is planned that the most economically weak should not pay the share, while those uninsured with an income, enjoy the cover, which would have been insured. The provisions will be put into effect after the draft law has been passed, having already ready for the ministerial decision which specializes them. A next set of measures in the bill is to strengthen the public health system. The message that the government supports primary care comes with Article 61, which assimilates the doctors of the former IKA - EOPY, who joined the EKA structures of primary health establishments with a full-time and full-time relationship with the doctors of the ESS. There is a second opportunity for doctors who have been outside the system with Mr Georgiadis's law to choose to rejoin the system, always with the relationship of full and exclusive employment, by closing the doctorate outside the public system. The bill serves the rule that those employed in the public health system must be of full and exclusive employment. The implementation of the health system also strengthens the simplification of the procedures imposed by the bill on changes in staff by Article 74. To date, there has been a dreadful bureaucratic process, which maintains another mechanism of the clientele system. Health workers are held hostages of the political leadership, since for a transition the process involves the governors of the two hospitals, the existing and then three ministers. Under this bill, the process stops the head of health services, who are fully aware of the situation of the overseeing health unit. In the direction of dropping the customer mechanisms is also Article 82 for the transparent management of the OSH list, for the timely, secure and non-transactionable – "false" – public service. It is also important to provide for Article 86, providing incentives to take up positions in remote, barren and border regions. There are indeed positions which, after repeated notices, are not covered. The possibility of an economic stimulus, along with other incentives for increased moleculosis, is therefore reintroduced. For the first time after many years, so many positions are being proclaimed in the health system with on-the-spot notices and notices. It is necessary to set up patient protection offices in public hospitals by Article 85, for which we expect the provision to be specialised by a Minister's decision, since the economic crisis has affected most of the population, particularly vulnerable groups, creating additional obstacles and adversities to access public health services. I just want to make one final point. It reduces a large number of farmers throughout Greece the rules of Article 35 on the return of the bodies of the guarantee letters, without any charge, which have remained for years, almost a decade, in the decentralised administrations and concern the relocation of land workers from other countries. We are pleased to see the three SYRIZA Members who have taken this initiative for months. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1060	Thank you too, Mr Jamaklis. I should like to inform my fellow Members that we are going up to our colleague under heading 53. Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1061	Fortunately, Adonis has left, Mr President, because otherwise we would speak on personal grounds all night long! Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law "Measures to speed up the government's work" undoubtedly has a positive social framework, as urgent articles are introduced, under which the public health system is initially upgraded. About 2/3 of the articles regulate important aspects of the health system, giving a solution to major problems, such as, for example, the top problem of lack of health care for uninsured citizens of this place. Positive legislative intervention will lead to citizens being relieved. All those who lost their insurance capacity, using AMKA only without a health book, uninsured, will be able to address public health services. A similar provision will also be made for special categories of vulnerable sections of the population, which are located in the country without legal documents. We are therefore promoting a package of interventions and changes so that all people at the time of the need are adequately treated and with dignity in public hospitals, in public health structures. I would remind you that this provision is one of the points of the Thessaloniki Programme for the humanitarian crisis. I continue, in summary terms, since they have been heard throughout the day - this bill has been analysed in detail - the following. We have the facilities for recruitment and stimulus to cover positions in hospitals, health centres in fertile areas. There are obstacles which make it difficult for residents to show interest in covering positions in public hospitals, especially in the province. Sets the facilitation of the transfer process of doctors and staff within the ESS, we have arrangements for doctors and scientific staff, with a view to safer hospital coverage, restructured the services and disciplinary boards of ESS doctors for the rapid investigation and processing of corruption, money laundering, etc., a transparent surgical list is established for the timely, secure and non-trading service of citizens. In addition, a number of necessary interventions are carried out to resolve issues of a general and specific nature which arise during the operation of public programmes. The work rights of the beneficiaries are fully clarified. It is planned to design and draw up programmes of a public interest character by the General Secretariat for the Management of Community and Other Resources of the Ministry of Labour, co-financed by the NSRP. The aim is to directly halt unemployment by employing unemployed people directly in municipalities and regions or other public services, such as schools and hospitals. The parallel programme provides for the establishment and operation of community centres in each of the first degree local authorities. The aim is to support the first-degree ATT in the implementation of social protection policies and to develop a local benchmark for reception, service and interconnection of citizens, with all social and social solidarity programmes and services. The benefit of these centres is citizens residing in the area of operation of those structures and, as a matter of priority, the benefit of the programme for minimum guaranteed income, as well as individuals and families living in poverty and social exclusion, children experiencing exclusion situations, migrants, disabled persons and generally vulnerable groups. But let me, for two seconds, become a little unpleasant, because the challenge by colleagues in the opposition is a great one. Colleagues of counterpopulation, you have spoken today of lies. I wonder why the two ministers who are here aren't addressing you the reason to send you the bill. I'll tell you what account I'm talking about, because hypocrisy has actually reached the peak. When will you finally stand at the height of the circumstances? When will you finally understand that you led a country and a people into a huge deadlock? For the last ten years you have managed to abolish all concepts of law and even today, from this Step by lying. What is the great lie that all colleagues in the Opposition have said today? You also tabled laws in the Minutes of the House. But I'm going to testify something else. Mr President, I am committed to tabling this next week. You said the insurers had medical care. Yes, Mr. Samaras announced it at the Thessaloniki Exhibition in 2013, if I'm not mistaken. Well, aren't we ashamed? Truly, is there no sign of shame that uninsured people had medical care? I would like to inform you that with tens of millions of euros - which is why the competent ministers must send you the bill - the hospitals in the country are indebted to uninsured debts. Only in the two hospitals in Heraklion is EUR 10 million due to the debts of uninsured hospitals. You even had people sign a responsible statement to discharge. You even did it for young children. You know how that money was paid? With fundraisers! The advance payment was paid rather than the total amount. Can you imagine the next time? With nails and teeth, we keep the presidents of hospitals not to confirm them on local grounds. Tell me, what's going to happen tomorrow to be confirmed in the tax for these uninsured people to whom you provided medical treatment? So who are they lying to? Tell us. I challenge you. Mr President, I commit next week to presenting to Parliament's minutes, not only the responsible statements, but also proof of the payment of uninsured payments to public hospitals...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1062	Here's the responsible statement! Here it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1063	...let's see, finally, who even misleads the Greek people today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1064	Thank you. Mr. Gerasimos Yakoumatos is absent. Mr. Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1065	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which is currently being introduced for discussion also includes a wide range of measures, which are primarily social and humanitarian, and thus confirming the priority which the government has set for the immediate treatment of the humanitarian and social crisis to support and relieve a suffocating society, aimed at the weakest groups. The provisions which it contains shall continue to apply to the Government's consistent progress towards the parallel programme it has announced. It successfully attempts to do this through the introduction of measures aimed at strengthening existing structures of health and local self-government and with many legislative changes, improvements and actions of social intervention and solidarity. So, by ensuring that the weak social strata and vulnerable groups of the population are put in place by introducing a variety of provisions to ensure the free access of all, including our uninsured citizens, to public health structures, ensuring that they are fully nursing, diagnostic and medical coverage, to strengthen the staffing of the dramatically understaffed NSAs, through the provision of incentives to staff hospitals and health centres of unintentional areas and the launching of direct recruitment of medical and nursing staff, where this is an undeniable need. For example, I refer to just a few characteristic legislative interventions, which advocate the government's choice of strengthening public health and the organisational and operational reorganisation of the ESS, which ensures full and free access to about two and a half million uninsured, universally guaranteeing the social right to health. The basic philosophy of the new regulation is the free access to public health structures for all, only using AMKA and their complete nursing, diagnostic and pharmaceutical coverage. The recruitment of medical staff is facilitated and staffing incentives are given in order to cover positions in hospitals and health centres in fertile areas. Specific incentives shall be provided in the form of subsidies, in kind or in cash, from the regions and municipalities to the doctors in the countryside, with a view to covering the vacancy of the medical offices in their region. The obstacles which make it difficult for residents to show interest in covering positions in public hospitals, especially in the province, are removed. On the basis of this arrangement, the obligation to fulfil the countryside service is not a precondition for the start of the specialisation, but for the receipt of the title. This makes it easier to cover rural hospitals with doctors who have a hospital experience, regulates the on-call status of doctors and scientific staff, with the aim of ensuring safer daily coverage of hospitals and rationalising on-call programs. An adjustment is promoted for the transparent management of the Occupational List, for the timely, secure and non-transactionable service of citizens, i.e. without the well-known enclosure. This legislation may resolve the problem of the opacity and inequality in hospitals as regards the priority of patients in surgery. When establishing the surgery list, each patient ceases to be interchangeable between the patient and the treating physician concerned, it is immediately known to him and is determined on the basis of specific medical documentation, assessment of the severity of the patient’s disease and the urgency or non-surgery treatment. Personnel protection offices shall be established in public hospitals. These offices will operate in each hospital in the country and will be responsible, inter alia, for collecting and handling complaints of corruption phenomena in the health system. Finally, the hospital structure in Santorini is being rescued, with the establishment of the Thera Hospital of a public character, integrated into the ESS. The Opposition, of course, once again follows the barren campaign to seize the government, by exercising incomprehensible and disorientative criticism, even on such bills as this, which, in common, only improve regulations introduce into the area of public free health by laying the foundations for a significant, gradual, but very promising reform in this very neuro-algal sector of society, amid a deep crisis and a broadly important financial unity. It also calls on the Government to allegedly degrade the public health system and under-fund hospitals, when their funding, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, increased in October 2015 by EUR 150 million compared to the previous year. It is to be wondered that for many years the dramatic deterioration and dismantling of the country's public health system has been trying to lay on its shoulders only one year of governance of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, the increased 823 million euro social budget for 2016, tabled and voted by the government, is gradually going ahead. This draft law, in conjunction with the legislative acts adopted at the very earliest time, as well as the forthcoming draft law on evaluation in the public sector next week, are an important step in the ambitious reform effort that the government is attempting. The orchestrated opposition delirium doesn't touch us or throw us. The government has voted for a brave social budget and is now moving rapidly towards the gradual legislative process of the policy with a social dimension, which it has committed itself to implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1066	Thank you. It is Mr Thibeus' turn, but he is not in the Chamber. Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1067	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who defend the idea that the bill we are discussing today is the parallel programme of SYRIZA, probably still in the era of the Thessaloniki programme, when Mr Tsipras promised increases and the thirteenth pension, when Mr Tsipras went up on the tractors and promised everything to everyone. Now, things have changed. You are the ones who led the country back to deficits and recession. The country, ladies and gentlemen, of the government, had a primary surplus in 2014 and for the first time a marginal, but positive rate of growth. In the country in 2014, ladies and gentlemen of the government, there were no capital controls. Farmers, whose tractors Mr. Tsipras was up in 2014, were introduced to tax with 13%, because they must all contribute to this. You will, however, tax them 20% and then 26%. You're forcing them to pay huge insurance contributions, and you're also slandering them. Anyone who protests is far-right for you. Anybody who reacts to anything you legislate and cling to the Golden Dawn. We heard it here today in this Chamber by your ministers. Let me remind you that you, too, voted with Golden Dawn on a number of issues, such as the referendum, a referendum for which none of you speak anymore, as if you wish to delete it from the memory of the citizens. Unfortunately, however, citizens have a memory for you. Citizens have acquired a high level of self-awareness and pragmatism. You will see it, not in both measurements, but in society itself, those who are circulating in it. And those of you who don't understand it or want to understand it will see it in the elections whenever they happen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill that comes at doses and continuity. It's getting cut off on the bill. Forty-two articles were removed, and we lost the account of the amendments added by the ministers. In fact, these are regulations that have already entered into force by ministerial decisions, and I am referring to medical care to uninsured and vulnerable social groups. For micro-addresses and "mother" services, for Memorandum Limitations, which you are lending to present as your own interventions. We also had the paradox, while the debate was scheduled for Wednesday, postponed and postponed for Friday and Saturday, with the recommendation of the Government representative. Obviously, for the government, the House exists to serve the government's communication plans, and according to that logic, Parliament's institutions and the Conference of Presidents must ratify the government's decisions. The bill you brought to the vote is not aimed at improving the daily lives of the citizens. It is aimed at maintaining the left alibi of the government. Except that even a false alibi has to have a matching to reality. You brought this bill in mid-December. There have also been meetings and discussions in committees. You withdrew it because the troika asked you to do it. Why did he ask you? Because it wasn't costly. When we proceeded with two ministerial decisions in the medical coverage of all the uninsured, this was not in the air. It was fully costly. The money and public expenditure required came from the primary surplus and the social dividend. The social dividend was EUR 400 million, distributed to society as a whole and above all to those who really needed it. This is social policy, essentially, based on our own powers. Today you, too, come to present, as something new, this provision, which gives the right to insecure citizens to be treated in public hospitals and to have access to medical care. I would also remind you that all urgent incidents for illegal immigrants, for refugees, were dealt with by public hospitals and public health structures. If you were honest, gentlemen of the government, why did you not continue implementing the minimum guaranteed income measure? Did you think he had flaws? Let's improve it, not remove it. Let me remind you that establishing the minimum guaranteed income was a leading social conquest. It applies to all countries of Europe. We have established it, given it content and concrete targeting. The criteria for granting it were rational. You and then you voted against it. Learn, finally, to build on what is positive from the previous government. It's not bad. Not to mention the provision that is given, even if potentially, the power of self-government to finance public health structures. Have you allocated some resources to assign that responsibility? No, of course not. Then why do you do it? Quite simply, to transfer to self-government a responsibility that you, as a government, have to bear to them the burden and pressure of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, until last January you were safe to claim the monopoly on social sensitivity and of course to words. Social sensitivity is, however, considered to be the minimum guaranteed income, with a 30% reduction in the excise duty on heating oil and the expansion of the beneficiaries of the heating oil premium. What have you done for all this? Do you think you can still uphold the vote and the tolerance of the citizens with promises? What you need to understand is that citizens are fully aware of the reality, they know what happened, they have valued your "consistency" and they can compare. None of us say the Samara government touched the perfect one, nobody says it made no mistake. We made tough decisions, indeed. But we had results. Citizens can now compare to your own results. We have a real difference: we have decided to tell the citizens the truth. That's what we did and that's what we're going to do. Our programme, what we will be tabling to the citizens, when the time comes, will neither be a parallel nor a false copy. It will be true, it will be a national regeneration programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1068	Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1069	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation could be termed 'broom draft' by those who want to take it as a regular text of imperfections and malfunctions of public administration. For our part, however, there is strong opposition. It certainly also contains provisions and regulations. It is, however, alluded to positions and principles expressing our views on a rule of law and on the exercise of the administration to be reproached by the principles of equality and social justice, which are inverted by bureaucracy, cosmopolitanism and opportunism, which is acting and at the same time broadens basic legal principles and constitutional requirements, such as equality of citizens, by recognising and protecting citizens with disabilities and other vulnerable groups, by discriminatory supporting the weak, poor strata, anthem and refugee, at the same time, making sense to the practice of fundamental principles of individual rights, while at the same time equiping public administration with institutional rules and conditions, which contribute to the relief of the people's strata and social progress. I will bypass the individual elements and articles mentioned in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Education, and I shall refer to the regulations of the Ministry of Health, where our areas and particular social contributions in this area are enthusiastic. Article 33, the front and knob of this legislative grid. Uninsured and vulnerable social groups are entitled to hospital and medical care. This is a great section, which is a clear manifestation of social solidarity and of deep faith in the universal and absolute coverage of the good of health, for all people, who live in our country, who come to heal the weakness of a large portion of the peoples, poor and middle classes in the midst of a deep humanitarian crisis, in order to preserve the good of health. In fact, it should be taken into account that, even before the crisis, 21% of our fellow citizens could not be introduced into a state-owned health unit because of precisely economic weakness. It is known that the most specific categories clearly deleted in the above provision, such as pregnant women, children, mental patients, patients, etc. Since, however, there have been reservations from representatives of counter-population, I have to ask the following question: How long will we see people and those in need of protection, care and health services? Is this not a distinction, separation and degradation of human value, a value which for us and for every civilised man must be absolute and inextricable? What is lacking for the fugitive, the exiled, the stateless and the refugee, the lacking food and shelter? Wouldn't I want to degrade or discount our emotions and consciences and yours, but would you tolerate leaving out of the care of people suffering from infectious diseases? Or, in this case, with some selfishness, may we derogate from the rules you have in mind? No, ladies and gentlemen. All humans, nonetheless, and most of all the sufferers, need to ensure and protect the primary good of health. Another initiative, necessary for the internal functioning of hospitals, which are clearly reflected in the way in which health is provided, is envisaged in the case of an introduction to surgery. It's the operative list established by Article 58. What gave a grip to the courageous and wretched institution? I think it is well known to everyone: The world-class decency or, in order not to hide behind words, the 'black page' or the 'black Bible' of nursing practice. The evaporation that brought the relevant service first in the list of opacity, selective service, favorableness and rupture, illegal enrichment, known to all as ‘bags’. We are determined to hit it and eliminate it, by establishing it by means of a medical assessment of the severity of the disease and the possibility of a safe waiting time for the patient's health by qualified doctors. With these measures, as the necessary intervention of the fair, thorough, practicable and excellent decision of the Ministers for Health, we want to believe that the seal and the principle of effective operation will be laid down. However, it will also need to be supported by health providers, citizens, patients and existing nursing staff, who must believe in the system and serve it consistently. And so, the people will follow, when they trust it, when they see it consolidated in practice, because in the end, health provision is in their interest to be exercised free of discrimination, without distinction, and with the hierarchy and priority set by the relevant provision that I have mentioned. I must not fail to mention the Committee on the Protection of Public Health Protection, as well as the Committee on the Protection of Public Health Services, under which it is set up, with similar support, for all citizens, especially the people, action and operation. Another innovative element that empowers, simplifys and makes fairer, efficient and ultimately human health in the health sector, hopefully it will also be health ombudsmen, an additional link for the help of vulnerable population groups, vulnerable and experts, to remove barriers to access to public health services. These are the measures proposed today, ladies and gentlemen, at the National Representation and also at the Greek people. We are sure that they will benefit from the strong reception of our fellow citizens, because they are the result of the popular necessity and they are aspiring to establish themselves in the consciousness of the widest popular strata that we want and must serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1070	Thank you, too. Mr. Thraniotus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1071	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law entitled 'Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions', which seeks to remove some of the consequences of the crisis. The fact is that our country has been experiencing a deep crisis in recent years, the worst post-Migration crisis, the economic crisis, a humanitarian crisis and, above all, a crisis of values. It is not my intention to charge responsibilities. One might call for evidence and refer for a long time to the reasons that led us here. But it doesn't make any sense. They are also known to everyone, as are the guilty ones. As much as they try to purify themselves into the swimming pool of Siloam, it's a bit difficult. The results, however, are important and they cannot be questioned or ignored. The fundamental policies of the Memorandum have eroded unemployment at the heights and hit youth first. They overshadowed the future for young people and forced many scientists to flee the country. So our homeland loses the most productive and hopeful part of society, what can contribute to the reconstruction of the country, our most powerful comparative advantage, our young people. The consequences of the crisis are evident in many areas, particularly in the health services sector, resulting in serious consequences for health requirements, particularly uninsured people, but also in the functioning of the public health system. This bill comes to give solutions to time-consuming problems, such as access to public health services of all uninsured and vulnerable social groups of the population. It also sets as a priority the coverage of major gaps in the national health system, the improvement of working conditions for medical, nursing and administrative staff, with a view to improving the provision of health services to citizens. Certainly, they do not go far enough on what is proposed in this bill for a system that is capable of fully covering the needs of medical care. However, it is very important that gaps are filled in to scientific, nursing and administrative staff. After four years, recruitment is reintroduced, but incentives are also being given to fill vacant posts in areas where preference is not expressed, such as barren and inaccessible, islands and remote areas. This draft law stimulates these gaps. These are the things that are provided for in Articles 66 and 67. In recent years, we have seen the phenomenon in many areas of our country, especially those that are remote and detached from the large urban centres, not of interest in covering the few vacant posts that were being proclaimed in the already shrunk agencies of regional hospitals and health centres. In this case, we also met in Lassithi on several occasions to fill out the position of subsidiary, pathologist and cardiologist. The solution provided for in Article 66 is clear, by recognising and calculating the service in designated barren and problematic areas on the sevenfold for doctors in employment and in the fivefold for doctors in the countryside. Two applications may also be submitted at the same time in pathology and surgical, partial and complete, provided that one relates to hospitals of island, barren and problematic areas. At the end of Article 66, paragraph 6 allows municipalities to provide housing and subsistence to the agricultural and subsidiary doctor for the period of his or her term of office in the region concerned. It is a very important help, considering where doctors’ wages have collapsed in previous years. In the last paragraph of Article 67, paragraph 6 is repealed, Article 10 of L.4316/2014, which stated that graduates of medical schools wishing to apply for the commencement of the specialisation are required to have fulfilled the obligation of a rural service until the time of commencement of the specialisation. Moreover, waiting times for specialisation have been greatly reduced compared with previous years which have seen the phenomenon of waiting for up to five years. The consequence of this delay and economic policy in recent years has been the bleeding of qualified doctors abroad, thus stripping the system of qualified doctors. Now that the times have been excessively reduced, the doctor is given the opportunity to start a direct specialty by performing the countryside before obtaining a title. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me at this point to make a reference to the amendment on which the opposition, with the encouragement of Mr Patulis, has risen to tiles. What does this amendment say, which one can express reservations about wording, but does not change in substance? It says that self-government can help, if they so desire, to meet emergencies in the service units. You will allow me to mention an example of the Lassithi County. The Saint Nicholas Cultural Association has requested and received two vehicles of EKAV decommissioned, visited them and made them worthwhile for local services, under the supervision of the EKA. It has six volunteer drivers, staff from Samaritans, to train and accompany incidents that do not require special care. This allows the release of two normal ambulances of the EMCDDA to be made available to emergency situations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the other Greece. It is the one that comes to be added to Greece by social doctors, Greece that saves refugees, Greece of solidarity, volunteering and humanity. And that is an essential reason for making us more optimistic about the future. Because this Greece has nothing to do with the Greece of Mr. Patoulis, who, in order to serve purposes, contradicts medical ethics itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that this bill will give a solution and a breath on the chronic health problems and help fulfil the state's obligation for free, universal and public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1072	Thank you, too. Mr. Chogas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1073	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I begin my speech I can only reply to the designation by the President of the New Democracy that our programme was the 'Autumn' of SYRIZA. I would say, on the contrary, that it is SYRIZA's 'Autumn Sonata'. It is quite obvious that the opposition's attempt to conceive is being made. What's that try? The degradation of SYRIZA's commendable character through the degradation of the parallel program. Do you know why? For the parallel programme scares all those who have rejected it. It involves people who will eventually have to fear their wrath, because the lies that opposition says are obvious and are part of a broader design. But all this cannot be fatal for anyone. The bill under discussion: "Measures to speed up government work and other provisions", otherwise the SYRIZA's 'parallel program', expresses our left conscience. He puts our prerequisites in the game. It unfolds our own roadmap with designs and future actions, to support effectively the collapse of Greek society, which you, the flawless memory of coexistence, have brought into this situation. It's the premise of social transformation, with class consciousness. It is our defense to the austerity imposed, which you of the Anti-Population have also put back on the recession, which fortunately goes toward the end, the one that local and foreign interests have imposed and established in our country. The SYRIZA Government was forced to make difficult decisions, ideologically incomprehensible, contrary to the Left, social analdic, but compulsory, compatible with a grim reality. In these circumstances, the development of parallel action against those who broke the country and made it a protector of opaque interests and ultimately led it to the humanitarian crisis that it is facing today, was a one-way, ideological obligation, was our own debt to the winter Greek society and our fellow people. The SYRIZA Government, in its parallel programme, defined its own prerequisites. It has put in place the terms of the example of social solidarity, as defined by its own perspectives. In these circumstances of extreme austerity, budgetary suffocation, extortion of behaviour, climate of unnatural uncertainty and insecurity, SYRIZA coordinated, with a view to contributing to the deprivation of these phenomena, when the perpetrators of the impoverishment of the Greek society about other people culminated, when even the Office of the Parliament in September 2014 in a report characterised the policy pursued, warning that with two and a half million citizens being below the poverty line and an additional 3.8 million at risk of poverty, the change of the social protection model was sine qua non, that is, from the point of view of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK did not have the slightest planning to create a public pillar of social solidarity. The void of the absence of this policy package attempted to fill SYRIZA. And he achieved it as follows: The Thessaloniki Programme included tackling the humanitarian crisis as his first priority. It was not a simple record or a package of relief measures for the most vulnerable groups. He introduced a holistic approach to social policy and designed targeted benefits in kind: Housing, current, feeding. Thus, the fact that SYRIZA's first piece of legislation concerned up-to-date measures to alleviate the humanitarian crisis was a natural development of its choice policy. The SYRIZA Government's social solidarity route began with a hundred and forty - five thousand solidarity cards corresponding to three hundred and fifty thousand citizens, with a free current of eighty-eighty eighty-eighty households, corresponding to two hundred twelve thousand, with a rental subsidy of three hundred and five thousand households, corresponding to eighty-five thousand people. These are actions that continue with unsatisfactory intensity and consistent orientation in this direction and for 2016 with the regulations introduced and under this legislation. The spokesman of the New Democracy, with great pleasure, called the parallel project 'a parallel job'. If you adopt this, you have nothing but to pass on to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed, homeless, insecure and poor Greek citizens who have survived and will survive with the parallel programme, whose basic provisions seek to keep society up. However, even if these are not enough, ask the five hundred thousand of the benefitable citizens through the European Aid Fund with the planning of prefectures by mobilising local societies into fifty-seven social partnerships for food, cleaning, and services. Let us not forget to mention the hundred doses with about one million entries against about a thousand entries in the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA strategic plan concerns the national system of social solidarity, namely the practical implementation of the parallel programme to change the social model and to move from the opaque and inefficient institutional state to a provincial system of a public nature, at the same time democratic control. This legislation implements the outcome of a long process of mature principles and kinetic experience in the field of social solidarity. So today's bill is another station in the parallel programme, namely the SYRIZA roadmap for exiting the crisis at which the government has served for a year, with speed and consistency. The government's work to address the social problems that have given rise to unwise policies of the past, continues with this legislation and is the government's great bet for the simultaneous implementation and implementation of equivalent measures, in relation to socially harmful and painful consequences, which continue to arise from the prerequisites of the loan agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1074	Finish. Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1075	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Opposition before Christmas Days, ignoring the importance of its institutional role, has tried, with its iso-society mania, to block the parallel programme by attempting, in fact, to involve creditors, as we all remember, those who are members of the Committee on Social Affairs. But all he did was delay this for a month and a half. Given your time, I will confine myself to the important provisions of the Ministry of Health, which are the main body of the provisions of the legislation and which come to simplify existing procedures, support the public health service system and, ultimately, make the situation more operational, effective and efficient in the national health system. It is undeniable that the degree of civilisation of a society is identified and realised through the way it faces its sensitive social groups. Under this legislation, the Government intends in an effective way to balance the situation in the public administration and in particular in the health sector, with the successive measures and reductions that have been promoted. At the same time, it aims to strengthen the public health system in resources and human resources in order to respond to the increased demand caused by the social coverage of uninsured persons. The regulations of the Ministry of Health to be voted on include a number of changes, both for doctors and for hospitals. In principle, however, the parallel health programme of the Government provides for full and free access to two and a half million of our insecure fellow citizens, victims of the ineffective policies that led to the crisis, which the government had committed for a long time. This will finally take place the constitutional obligation of the Greek state to ensure universal and equal social rights for health. Besides, even today uninsured citizens, homeless and insolent, who don't have access to drugs or drugs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1076	Mr. Comrade, it'll take us in the morning. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1077	Mr President, I apologise. So, after much has already been said, we will vote for the parallel programme, because it is an obligation on society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1078	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-19-S1-commons.u1079	With the consent of the House at 1.47' the sitting is closed for Saturday, February 20, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, on the continuation of the debate and the adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Measures to speed up government work and other provisions", according to the agenda distributed.
