ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017’. Mr Christos Stakoras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the content of the budget reveals that the government continues to adopt unrealistic cases, it continues to spend valuable time, it continues to focus obsessedly on overtaxing the obvious economy, and it is awkward to regress on reforms. It does not want - nor can it - to modernise the adequacy system, to improve competitiveness, to promote the extroversion of the economy, which is in protracted low and strong turbulence. I am specific: First, today the economy is at a lower point and with weaker dynamic than the government received in January 2015. Two years lost, potential wealth evaporated. How much? According to the European Commission, EUR 21 billion. New measures were imposed. How much? According to the updated memorandum, EUR 9 billion. The available income is shrinking. How much? According to ELSTAT, by EUR 5.5 billion. Today, the government is running an arrow and, apart from the contents of the budget under discussion, to give back a small part of this permanent loss. After imposing the permanent reduction in main and ancillary pensions, the permanent abolition of social benefits, the permanent increase in insurance contributions, is now moving towards the granting of a single sub-multiple aid. All this, at the same time that it is depriving the real economy of resources as it has declared, at the same time as it imposes taxes, new taxes, four times the taxes in 2017, as well as an additional HNPH - and above all indirect taxes which particularly affect the weaker sections - and at the same time that it undertakes commitments to additional austerity measures for 2018, but also for the next several years that will affect all citizens. "To burn you, Yannis, to grind you oil." Secondly, the government's forecast for 2.7% growth in 2017, although we hope it will happen, is unrealistic. The government provides for a significant increase in private consumption. Where? How realistic is this when new taxes of EUR 2.6 billion are imposed in 2017? The government predicts a great increase in investment. How realistic is this, when the government continues overtaxing, is it continuing to increase the internal attitude of payments and is it proactive in implementing structural changes? I have said so and I repeat: the government has received the economy on the first floor, it has thrown it into the basement and today it celebrates trying to put it on the ground floor at least. Thirdly, the government's budgetary policy is guided by ideological obsession with tax austerity, which will not produce the expected results. The reports of the Memorandum of Understanding confirm this. In fact, in 2015, the tax revenues were the lowest in the last decade, despite the imposition of taxes by the current government. However, the primary surplus in 2015 was lower than in 2014, despite the imposition of new measures. The only year, the one and only year in which there was a stabilisation of tax revenue, was in 2014. We recall that that year the economy achieved a positive rate of economic growth and the government then went on to target reductions in tax rates. Fourth point: Despite the struggling effort of the government to overthrow the situation, time bombs exist on the foundations of the Greek economy, as is, for example, the increase in private debts to the public, which exceed 50% of GDP, increased this year by 10 billion euros. In this picture, can anyone celebrate overcoming the revenue targets? Fifthly, however, the government celebrates the latest Eurogroup decision. But where you hear many cherries, keep a small basket, our people say. That's right. According to the decision, which, I repeat, has been signed by the Minister of Finance, so the Minister of Finance has agreed on its contents, the second assessment has not been concluded, despite the fact that the Government is in the opposite position. As a result, the uncertainty is maintained, the repayment of the outstanding public debts is deferred, the integration into the quantitative relaxation programme, which should have taken place since March 2015, is being postponed. In addition, the Government has signed and accepts that there is a budget gap in 2018, which should be covered by additional austerity measures, while the Government has signed and accepts that budgetary targets will remain high for the coming years as well, after 2018. Indeed, it committed itself to achieving these objectives by implementing new measures and permanentising the cut. In other words, it committed itself to permanent comitology mechanisms in the country. Really, where did the so-called red lines go? As far as the debt is concerned, the immediate measures decided on come to cover a small part, only 12% of the burden borne by the current government's unresolved debt control. When? In 2060. Although moving in the right direction is little. They will have positive consequences over time, I repeat, because they are 12%. It is enough to compare the IMF reports in 2015 and 2016. They are not combined with a reduction in primary surpluses, but are accompanied by a heavy price for citizens, while the necessary medium - long-term measures are referred to for 2018, after the current programme has been completed. These interventions have nothing to do with the double restructuring of 2012, which led to a significant write-down of debt and an improvement of the debt profile, resulting in today, as your budget records, the interest costs are half of what was in 2011. In conclusion, the government once again put the cubit high and passed underneath. This is the painful result of its unreliability and inadequacy. We're no longer talking about deceit. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by stressing that the tax budget does not mean a rational mix of economic efficiency and social justice. While we all recognise that fiscal stability, although necessary, is not in itself capable of dynamic growth in the economy, the government has no plan to increase the quantity, to improve the quality of all production factors and to promote their technological equipment and modernise the country. The change in economic policy has become necessary, by means of structural change forward, by changing budgetary policy towards a gradual reduction in tax rates, and by adopting a strategic plan for productive reconstruction in the country aimed at a competitive, outward economy. However, these presupposes a political change to break down the catastrophic spiral, which leads increasingly deeper and deeper to the economic stagnation and social misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Beyond the Bureau, it is an intergroup request that the time should be respected, and that is what I would ask the ministers, because there are parliamentary obligations and the Members must leave to prevent their flights. So we have to finish before 21.30 p.m., so that the vote can take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u4	Where should we go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u5	We'll be here Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u6	I said about the ministers, too. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. It is a real impression to listen to Officerial Opposition MPs talking about over-taxation, the party MPs who had committed the country in 2014 in an agreement, which provided for EUR 20 billion more burden by 2018 than the agreement that our government has brought. It also gives rise to the impression that they are talking about unrealistic objectives. What objectives are unrealistic? The target of 3.5% in 2018. It was realistic to keep the surplus targets at 4.5% for many years, as they had signed - I repeat - in 2014! I have a feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that opposition and, above all, Responsibility, lives a year back. At the moment, it ends a year that has very specific economic results. The economy has returned to growth since the middle of time, and then in the last quarter it rose to 1.8% of GDP. Unemployment has fallen to 23.1%, exports have increased by 10%, investment in fixed capital by 12.6%, industrial output in October by 7%, tourism by 11%. Tonight we are discussing a budget that also has very specific features. It is a development budget and not just because it is foreseen - not from the Greek side, but from the institutions - that 2017 will be a very good year for the economy, but because, among other things, this budget provides for the full extension of the social income of solidarity with EUR 760 million, the increase of the public investment programme by EUR 250 million, the increased funding of EUR 400 million for strengthening health, social protection and education. That's the reality. Unfortunately, the Civic Opposition is politicized as if not all of this had happened and speaks selfishly of disasters and stagnations. What we're living now is a stall! What we've lived for the past five years, what was it? We are very close to hearing the extremes, which are necessary to support the foreign-minded account of Anti-Population, that our negotiation cost the Greek people EUR 100, 200, 300 billion - or I do not know how much - and the restructuring of the debt with the PSI saved him from about EUR 600 billion. Even that's what we heard! The truth, of course, is on the reverse. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a very good time for the Greek people to think calmly about what would have been the reality if the political change that took place in January 2015 and was sealed in September 2015. So let Greeks and Greek women wonder now where the economy is stabilizing. Would we have this Eurogroup decision in relation to the public debt arm if this political change had not been made? Obviously not. Because the official Greek position at that time was that the debt is sustainable and what is needed is only a sustainability certificate. It must be said, of course, that this result was not only the result of the tough negotiation in the closed rooms of technical scales. It was a result of a very, very methodically organized diplomacy, which the Greek Government developed at all levels. By the Prime Minister himself, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and other Ministers, at all levels outside the planning and political methodology of the troika, we claimed and managed to convince our partners. What about the pensions? Would there be a guarantee of national pensions, even for farmers, or would the zero deficit clause which the New Democracy fantasically reinstates? Let the world wonder if the one-third pension, paid on 22 December, would be paid and whether there was a prospect of a return to the incomes of the affected low-wage pensioners. Would there be a programme that succeeds in bringing the economy to growth? Obviously not because the great surpluses signed by the New Democracy did not come out, and that is not what we say, now you say so. He said so in time for your old programme, the one responsible for executing it, Mr Hardouvelis. That's what you're doing. You talk about an e-mail, which had no substantial value. It was an e-mail sent at some point, in case the debate begins, with the troika at that time. The substance of this position is, however, also the assumption that the success of the New Democracy has been built, that it has no basis at all, and I think it would be a good thing to abandon it. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words on issues relating to the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. In relation to digital policy, the country had no digital strategy for years, no care from the state. The result is that we are twenty-six out of eight in the incorporation of technologies, information and communication. There was not even a Secretariat of Digital Policy, and now the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information has been established. The Digital Policy Secretariat has been an obligation that the country had undertaken since 2014 and certainly did not. We are very low in the percentage of enterprises using electronic invoicing to promote their products and transactions, very low in employment, in information and communication technologies. That was a statistic that when I saw it, I personally was surprised. We are almost one-third of the average employment of skilled human labour in information and technology technologies. This is, of course, the result of the dramatic recession and the consequent fact that young trained people have been looking for their years, finding jobs abroad, because here, despite their high specialisation, this was not possible. Of course, we are also low in the development of high-speed networks. We immediately set up and submitted the new national digital strategy to the European Union, after consultation that has taken place. It was an obligation that, as I said, should have been completed. We are therefore making use of the new technologies to get to the point of providing integrated services to both citizens and businesses. The public sector can be made more effective. We support and encourage businesses to develop digital services, business services in business. We aim to restrain the repatriation of high-skilled human resources. We are strengthening the digital skills of the population. We are changing radically and modernising the way in which technology, information and communication projects are planned and procured, and we must - and it is very important that, because we have had many projects to be procured, started to be carried out during the implementation period and before they are completed, they are regarded as outdated - to introduce flexible forms of implementation of the projects. In telecommunications we have a very high target, because we believe that this sector can become the engine of new growth for Greece in the years to come. Unfortunately, there has also been inaction here which, as I said, led us to the bottom of the ranking in the European Union. Our goal is an ambitious, but all possible, to install fibre optics for all of Greece, so that telecommunications can lift the burden of the new digital economy. For us, ladies and gentlemen, telecommunications is not only a positive sign and it is a necessary precondition for re-launching growth as sustainable in the Greek economy. Telecommunications can also be a vehicle for implementing many social actions. We have already launched and implemented the first action, free satellite television in Thrace, but also three more very important actions, which will be launched and implemented in the next few years: free internet for first-year students, special social tariffs for special categories of people with disabilities and free internet in the border islands. The core of our conception is that the state must take all the measures so that the country can move quickly and coordinate in the new generation of information and communication technology, but without anyone remaining behind. It is a matter of democracy, it is a matter of equality, it is a matter of justice, it is at the heart of this government's perception of fair growth. Here, of course, on the opposite side of the neoliberal choices, it is the strong role that the public and the government have to play, but also the respective regulatory authorities. In relation to the media, you are all aware that the National Broadcasting Council has been set up. We are immediately starting a circle of contacts to support infrastructure, human resources and what the National Broadcasting Council needs, so that the licensing process can be implemented quickly. The state doesn't start from scratch. It has accumulated knowledge and experience and we must move on quickly. I shall close with this, ladies and gentlemen. We are in the last phase of the negotiation, and two are the open issues. These are two issues which appear to be the judgement of the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme or not, the work and the issue of the surpluses. New Democracy has an uneasy silence at work. PASOK does not mention it, because I sincerely wish it to be associated with the position expressed by the Socialist Party, which was very gladly put forward in favour of restoring collective negotiations in Greece. But the New Democracy is clear that it is concerned because, if this issue is won, it will appear in the eyes of each worker that the abolition of collective agreements in Greece happened not because it was a demand for lenders, but because it was at the core of the hard neoliberal programme of the New Democracy, in which it unrepentantly insists. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] One final word, if you may, Mr President, on the issue of surpluses. It says that the New Democracy will reduce the surpluses. Yes, sir. I want to make two remarks. Firstly, when you say that the surpluses should be below 3.5%, because they do not come out, we all imagine that the same applies to the 4,5% surpluses that New Democracy signed in 2014. In its position, therefore, to reduce surpluses, the first thing it does is fundamentally undermine the entire account that Greece was ready to take off in 2014 and suddenly our government came and shattered it all. Greece would not take off because the signature for surpluses that were not possible had fallen. Greece would not take off because it had no government that had any concern for the socially weak, because it did not have a government which did not understand the maximum social issue in Greece since the first two memoranda, which was the issue of inequalities. Greece would be back, which we avoided. Secondly, and I close - it is the following. Note: The New Democracy says that the lowest surpluses should not happen, they should not come because Greece is entitled to them, because this is the financially legitimate and reasonable one. Oh, no. They will come in exchange for depths - he says - reform. I think this is a very good opportunity for the New Democracy to explain to us what reforms it means. Because it is clear that it does not mean the reform of the public sector, which we and the New Democracy have also voted against. That's clear. Does he mean reform of insurance? Does the zero deficit clause, which we have escaped from the back of the Greek people and you wish to bring it back? So, what are these reforms? I would like to end by saying this: it is clear that the New Democracy disagrees with our last decision that a third pension should be granted to the low-pension workers and that we should exempt the islands that suffer from the refugee, from the burden of the high rate of VAT. I think that this truth should be very clear and that the Head of the New Democracy too should tell us what he would like us to do. I don't know, I really wonder if there's a need for some exceptional subsidy to the parties to pay off the New Democracy loan or to raise the taxes we've put in the canalarchs. I don't know, we're ready to hear ideas. However, if they disagree, they should, with the responsibility of the Police Officer, make a proposal here and explain to us whether what their Vice-President said yesterday on a radio show is also an official position of the New Democracy, which says: "We will do what Shoeble and so much." We're waiting to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Please, Mr Javarra, you have the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep the time for the same reason I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have succeeded with your speech in disputing even those who have, for thousands of years, been saying that no one can be a listener of his speech. You, indeed, succeeded in saying things that you address yourself and all those who are identified with you. Indeed, this may sound like a paradox, but it is very interesting to link it to what the chosen Professor of Philosophy of Law and one of the most remarkable MPs present in this Chamber, Mr Constantine Dousina, said yesterday. So it is very impressive to hear, at recent times in particular, the narrative you had until you started ruling this place on the lips of each of us, because in fact each of you is coming to Stepma and reads a prefabricated speech, whether it comes here and addresss to this House a reason that builds it at the time it is being given. He does nothing but tell how he passes through his soul, through his tongue, and through his mind this fascinating experience that as a pitfall, I would say. It is this relationship with power, power as an end in all its expressions and all its references. That is why you deserve congratulations! However, the Greek people regret and regrettably, because even the one which two days ago sent to the badly tested pensioners in the country as a thirteenth pension - and you also made the mistake of repeating it from this step before - is nothing but a very great deception, because you know very well that this is not a third pension and, above all, it is not about the promise that you have given the Greek people that you will regain, as a regular acceptance of every pensioner under EUR 850 - or EUR 1200, if I am not mistaken - the thirteenth pension. So it's a help. I heard another speaker yesterday telling this beautiful experience of providing the people has linked it to Christmas. Do you really believe in Christmas? That'll be very interesting. Good for you! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] This means that through power, even as an enduring experience, you have become better people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u10	Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u11	You too! And help you! But there is also something much more interesting, which I would like to dedicate to those of you who have the illusion that in this adventure who live to be left-wing people and people of power at the same time, they have the naivety to believe that the people stand out for a basic feature of them, for the moral advantage of the Left. Really, since when did you left-wing guys become such a fool? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It's very interesting what I'm going to say. Please listen to me, because what you will at least hear will be an opportunity to think a little bit about, because you say a lot of "poor" here at a time. In fact, most of you read it without even believing it, and that seems to be obvious in the way they are addressed to the House and, above all, in the way in which the words they read - which are foreign - are trying to connect to their souls, which, basically and deeply, must suffer. He is suffering, of course, because what you say "ethical" began to employ the Left since revolutionary Marxism collapsed. It's the books. I'm not saying that. Above all, what is also very important and one must once tell you is that in order for the Left to respond to what was called 'ethical', either in its canteen version, or in the version of a very worthy philosopher, Alen Bandiu - who is left and is not liberal - it has come to adopt the morality of human rights. Yesterday, I was expecting Mr Dousina to speak of this morality, but, unfortunately, what I heard from his mouth is to speak of the morality of self-human left-wing rights. He basically distinguished society among the left-wings who have morals and this morality, as he said, is linked to the incorporation of their lives and their souls and their language into a set of principles and values, like what the ministers serve, as he said, who are not identified with their chairs. Imagine hearing us, and working on it, and the performances you take every day in the way you exercise authority, trying to draw conclusions. That's the absolute schizophrenia. But it's okay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I believe that Mr Doussina, because he is a very serious intellectual - I have in fact been interested to read most of his books - must not forget that through this theory of moral advantage, what you achieve is to make a performance for yourself, which gives your mastership or your collectiveness a privilege or a gift. So you slowly get away from the idea of the meaning of history and incorporate in history the privilege of being moral people. These aren't things that match the Left. What, too, impresses, after all of this, is that many of you go up to the Step and say things they don’t believe. For example, what the Minister said earlier. But the worst thing is that there are people who go up to the Step and appear to believe things that don't match the Left. You need to make that clear. [[Applause from the Independent MEP, Mr Jason Lightla]] Finally, Mr President, the most serious thing is that yesterday Mr Doussina made another slip.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u12	Listen up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u13	I always hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u14	I address SYRIZA's colleagues, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u15	...and I hear the people I'm addressing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr Doussina's'smooth' is what we want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u17	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr. President, can I have another minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Javarra, I gave you the minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That, of course, for which Mr Dousinas yesterday I think he found the opportunity to speak to us, for truth, is that he found the opportunity to link the truth to the meaning that comes out if we divide the deprivation from oblivion. But the word 'truth' comes from the verb wrong, which means I'm hiding. So what he did yesterday was to deceive you once again - and he along with the ministers and the Prime Minister - by trying to show that what the New Democracy is showing it as the political decision it has and morality, to tell the truth regardless of the costs involved in the implementation of such a truth, that is for the first time in the political history of the ideas of postmultiple becomes a motto of party action, and that is what bothers you. When you get to a similar point, then the people can talk to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate concerns truths and lies and attempts to deceive, as mentioned by the previous speaker, questions are raised here. Is it true or lies that the previous PASOK-New Democracy conflict had agreed surpluses of 4.5% and indeed not for 2018, but for much earlier? Really! We have achieved the surpluses that you know and we are already fighting to reduce the surplus rate for 2018. Is that true or lying? Is what we have achieved in any case smaller than what New Democracy had achieved? I don't think you need to be a mathematical mind to realize that 3.5% is less than 4.5%. So that's the truth. Secondly, you tell us that we have abolished the CSCE. You have made it a flag for a year now and at a time when this allowance is granted, which is 4.7% more than was abolished, you come here to tell us that neither is that true. What's not true? That it's more than 4,7% of what was given today than what was abolished yesterday? I don't think that needs any particular philosophy and thought. I'll come to the last one. Has the debt been reduced and we are entering a debt reduction process with the short-term measures and the Eurogroup decision? There's no one to question it. What were you waiting for? You've been waiting for a debt viability certificate. The SYRIZA Government and the Cooperation Government are reducing the debt by 22% of GDP, and you were waiting for a viability certificate from Mr. Soible! That's the reality. Since that is the reality, let us not go further into truths and lies, because the list is long. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, I would like to say that one of the areas affected by the policy of austerity and poverty in recent years has been the area of justice and the penitentiary sector. This, of course, has been because for twenty or thirty years those who criticized us have followed a policy of destruction, bankruptcy and anti-grassroots measures. For twenty and thirty years each changed to power over each other with the same programme and practice, until they came to rule, so that we all understood what they meant and what they were doing and what they sought. So they come to criticise the government for the budget. What they wanted and what they did, I think everyone knows. It was to continue the regime of the "friends" of Mr. Christoforakos and SIEMENS to rule this place through the rotation in the prefecture of power. It is not only that, but the same centers are coming today - and I have heard the Chief of Staff Response today - to make proposals on justice matters as well. I ask both the New Democracy and the PASOK: is it all that they are present today, are they what they have put forward in the past when they were in the government? Since they've been uploaded so many times, why didn't they implement them? Who prevented them? Self-government governments had, together, joined together for three years until 2015. Who prevented them? None, ladies and gentlemen. What makes it seem, however, that the same political staff who teaches us today was what went through here with the last governments. What had the Chief of Staff Response done on all these matters when he was Minister of the last governments or the President of the PASOK when he was Deputy Minister of Mr Samaras? Not only do they want to teach us justice, but they also misinform public opinion. We are told that the prosperous public officials have returned to their positions and that the state-of-the-art file checks have stopped. Really? I at the Ministry of Culture and Sports, which was until the end of the day, know that since 2002 it has had financial control over sports federations. We re-established the control board to finally find out where the Greek people's money went for fourteen years, which no one controlled and nothing happened. That's our difference. We are implementing a control plan in all areas of public life while you have continued until the last hour to cover these situations. But they also talk about interventions in justice by those who came here with amendments and defended the infidelity of the bankers, who changed the Criminal Code for 15 days, to get out of here by those who had tried, because three times the amendment had come - they have forewarned those who have given confidential information to potential investors. They're teaching us lessons! The Government wishes, therefore, once again to point out that it will not only defend the indirect control of the constitutionality of the laws by the Greek courts, but also fully respect the decisions made on these matters, whether it agrees or disagrees. I would like to say something here that we must listen carefully to. The Government spokesman was convicted of an inappropriate attack following the publication of the result of the vote in the Council of State. By the way, we're still waiting for the decision. So, does the government not have the possibility of expressing an opinion? Because if we get to these points, then you understand very well what limitations we are talking about. As the judicial associations and parties have the right to judge what the Government's representative said, so much so the government has the opportunity and the right to express its opinion. But that is not an intervention. Intervention in justice is when by side and fraudulent means the influence of Greek judges and prosecutors is attempted. This was never done by the Greek Government from January 2015 until today. Let some people look elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the budget of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I would like to say that this budget is increased by 3 million, and it has even come to an end in reducing expenditure on justice. Not only has there been an end and a barrier, but we also have an increase. In fact, this increase will be channelled to the penitentiary institutions. Because the situation of prisoners needs to be improved even further, so that prisoners can have the result of both penalisation for society and for those people who are in prison because they have committed crimes and have been punished. It must also have a result for them, and the process that they have and it costs the Greek people. I was impressed, today, by ladies and gentlemen, by the panic in which the New Democracy is located. Neither little nor much, the Chief of Officerial Response in his speech to the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, at its annual assembly, said that nine and a half thousand prisoners have been fired in SYRIZA's day. These are outrageous things, because here it seems that people have no picture of the reality. We have received a situation of about 12 thousand prisoners, and today we are holding the figure at nine and a half thousand prisoners. So, what do they want to tell us? That they were eighteen or twenty thousand prisoners? How many were there? And this figure, with the grant given by the measures and programmes that we are implementing in prison, is a number that is manageable. On the question of staffing of the judiciary, I would like to mention the following. In the days of our Government, they have been appointed in 2015 to the Council of State and the Administrative Courts of eight judges and in 2016 eighteen. Also, sixty-fifths of court officers have been appointed in 2016 - again blocking this state of mission of the courts of the country. In addition, in 2015, ninety-three Judges, thirteen prosecutors, four Areopagites have been appointed in the Political and Criminal Courts. We have only increased the positions just last fortnight, with a provision that the New Democracy did not vote for, and we have increased by seven the position of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors at the Judiciary School. In addition, for 2017, the recruitment of three hundred forty-seven judges has been planned. This is the practical proof that the government is working firmly and permanently so that it can change the landscape it has received. However, I would like to say one last thing to the House today. I announced it a few hours ago at the annual General Assembly of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. Beyond the measures to speed up the adoption of judicial decisions, which have been launched and you know them - we have already announced them - the government commits that by the end of the summer holidays it will have completed the legislative initiatives relating to the establishment of the judiciary. This, ladies and gentlemen, because we firmly believe that the synergy of special scientists and trained people, as partners, will help in the work of judiciary and will carry a volume of work from the judges and prosecutors who do not have people and technical knowledge in many cases to respond to their partners. It is an institution that has been cancerd before the Greek Parliament for more than fifteen years, such as many other modernistic and degrading public life. However, this measure will also be implemented by the left-wing government, the Cooperation Government. I repeat that it is an actual proof that we are not sitting with our hands crossed against corruption and complexity. We are fighting it with specific legislative measures, which we support in any case, at any time in the conduct of government policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u24	Staff? What kind of personal, Mr. Dozena? What's the staff? Tell me what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Javarras has repeatedly referred to my face and I would like a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u26	He didn't say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u27	On the other hand, I would like to say that this is a staff that is not the usual confrontation. I have taken the floor to thank Mr Javarra, who is one of the few people in the New Democracy who reads and thinks. But I would like to say a word about moral and morality, the spirit of the Left. Greek and Greek cultures have a great wisdom. He uses the word "ethics" in relation to two concepts that in Latinised countries are moralite, moralitat (ethical, moral). For us, both are together. For us, then, ethos and in particular, left ethos are not just the general rules of either religious or candian form, but a basic character, an ethos and a style in which we collectively function in society. We have seen - I think - a very good example of this ethos yesterday when on the one hand the government announced that it gave this money to the low pensioners and the islands and on the other hand we had a famine, a series of statements from the opposition trying to be the largest Scrooge, to abolish Christmas for this world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u28	Please, we're evacuating from the staff, Mr. Dousina.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u29	Who's the biggest Scrooge we'll find out later today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Javarra, we're not having an interactive conversation. Please. What's your staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u32	It is a separate staff, as the previous colleague put it, and you have accepted it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u33	I didn't accept it. I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u34	Excuse me. You left him, he developed his views on a staff who said that it is different from what colleagues are taking the floor. So I am rightfully asking why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, but what do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u36	In any case, if you insist, I will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u37	I don't want you to talk because Mr. Dozenas will ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u38	So I acknowledge that for the first time Hegel made this distinction in the "Phenomonology of the Spirit", but did not do it for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Javarra and Mr. Doussina, you have escaped the spirit of the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u40	In particular, however, on the issues of morality - and I shall end - my colleague will allow me to give him a book, the 'ethical' of Alain Badiou, which says all the things you have said and even worse about SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u41	I invite him to a public debate and I am prepared to organise it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u42	You'll see about Christmas! Mr Aygeakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I will begin my suggestion of the government budget for 2017 without being tempted to speak about the 'left morale' which we heard in the morning too. The moral advantage of the Left along with the Left Government with the far right helmet ends, as is your advantage! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the excesses, the dogmatic extremities, the lies are fortunately avenged. Sadly, for all the Greeks who are the prey of your ideas. As far as the budget is concerned, however, we saw Mr Tsipras earlier in his speech in the middle - I would ask - the debate on the budget and in the middle of the negotiations on the completion of the evaluation panic and on an election bribery forgetting, in fact, that he was the one who cut off the EAS and imposed more and more taxes, forgetting the new reduction in pensions already agreed with the creditors and, finally, forgeting that he cut the other twelve pensions to give the thirteenth pension. Feared by the social outcry, he's trying to fool once again. Except no one now believes him. No one believes you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And it is strange that a Prime Minister does not realize that he has become the subject of open irony and often mocking for his childish behaviors, for his trips to Havana, for his childish faces at large meetings and, anyway, for his overall picture that neither his personal seriousness serves, much more serious bothers us, offends Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, after ruining the country's economy, after having broken down everything with effort and sacrifices the Greek people managed to build the years of crisis, after derailing the economy by charging the debt and creating millions of deficits, now brings us a budget that goes back years, a budget that breaks down the welfare state and state, a budget that increases taxation, burdens pensioners, strangles farmers, destroys the free professionals and the private economy, which you do not care about, abolishes a large number of social costs, unfortunately increases the public debts by creating major problems, especially in the provision of health services. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you may be satisfied, but the country is far behind 2014. In 2014 you decided to drop the previous "threesome" government, as you said at the time, the country had an operating banking system. Today it has a regime of capital controls, which were imposed after the heroic negotiation and referendum. You remember that, I imagine. In 2014 deposits to Greek banks were EUR 173 billion. Today it's only EUR 133 billion. In 2014, the country had a growth of 0.8% and the Commission's forecasts mentioned growth of 2.9% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016. Instead we had a recession minus 0.2% in 2015 and minus 0.3% in 2016. Today, really, what are you pursuing? To get the country back to growth, that is to say, where it was in 2014 and go out with the "papers" of quantitative relaxation - and I wish you could do it, the truth being called - test, of course, on the markets, i.e. where it was in 2014. But do you know what's going on, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen? You are the most fanatical fans of Mr Samaras and of our government, because you are seeking to get us back to where we had been three years ago and I do not even see you going through that. We now have new governmental celebrations in relation to short-term debt measures. These measures do not in any case lead to a nominal reduction in debt. We ask you to be serious and count your celebrations and, of course, the non papers you distribute. What we have to do is continue to be owed. This is simply an amendment to the IMF's debt service scenario by 2060. So simple, so clear! In return for this, the government committed itself to the Eurogroup to maintaining the primary surplus target, not 2% as it said, but 3.5% of GDP and even in the medium term. What does that mean for those watching us? It means almost three billion more each year. You sought to alleviate the debt without a memorandum and have received a memorandum without any substantial relief. As far as the budget forecasts are concerned, there are not just optimistic things, they are out of place and time. We state clearly: I wish the budget forecasts were successful. However, the forecasts are all linked to reform - I imagine you have escaped - and it is known that you have allergy to reforms. After all, you are constantly proclaiming that you do not believe in the programme, connect your prediction of growth of 2.7% to the provision of increasing private consumption and investment. You say that private consumption will increase by 1.8%, while loading people with such tax burdens. Of the EUR 9 billion measures that you have taken for the period 2015-2018, almost EUR 7.5 billion are tax and contribution increases. The 9.1% increase in investment from where will it come from, really? From your well-known pro-investment position, which we have seen recently with the D.C.F.D.? Even you yourself in the report, on page 18, write: 'For important risk factors, which can affect forecasts', as I remind you - are, for example, the non-response of red loans, poor implementation of reforms, limited absorption of European funds and a number of other conditions. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we inherited you with balanced budgets, which created a primary surplus, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the policy of proud negotiation and short-sighted and ideological policy, led us to the recession, to primary budgetary deficits, to the increase in public debt, to a third memorandum, and we very much fear that you will lead us to the fourth memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we have the total denial of your memorial rhetoric. We've been telling you all about what's happening today. You remember them. We've been kicking the alarm bells for you. And instead, we are unfortunately collecting deceptive and slandering answers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute more, Mr. President. Unfortunately, for everything we were accused of, you are applying it, but unfortunately, in the worst possible way and with a delay of two and three years. You are subjecting unconditionally to the requirements of the institutions, you have no orientation, no programming, no plan, and, at the same time, you have a great deal of courageously maintained a bipolar rhetoric. Your total presence as a government is that you are the most toxic one in the country. We are voting against the budget for all these reasons, but remember that two years ago things were very different and clearly much better. Even today Mr Tsipras can offer a positive service at home if he leaves immediately. Leave with you immediately and take the misery you brought to Greek citizens and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st General Lynnitson High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Janakopoulos, the Minister of State, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the first time I have had the opportunity to speak from this step. I am very pleased that Mr Javarras, trying to respond to a real philosopher, has probably recognised, without wanting, the supremacy of the Left over the Right, both theoretically and politically. This supremacy is self-proof, moreover, if anyone would like to hear the prior speech, the speech of Mr. Aygeakis, and if he listened to the vulgar ad hominem attacks unleashed by Mr. Aygeakis to the Prime Minister, reproducing from this here the Step, the Step of the House, the well-known libels of the darkest side of the internet. In any case, after Mr Auggenakis was excited, hearing himself speak, as Derida, Mr Javarra, would have said, we can all leave what he said in oblivion regardless of her etymology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u46	That's what Heideger used to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting on the budget always gives us the opportunity for a debate on the whole matter, on the economy, on society, on the appropriate priorities for government policy, but also on the competitive political plans, on their report and on their comparison. It is not only about the parliamentary reconfirmation - confirmation of correlations, data, but above all about the citizens who listen and compare. Two plans have actually been put forward in this debate: that of the current government and that of the Officerial Response. These projects are really competitive. They reflect different political origins, different political ethos, different priorities and ultimately, and above all reflect different social representations. They reflect the needs of two different conflicting worlds and will continue to conflict. On the one hand the needs of the world of work, the unemployed, all those who have been severely affected by the economic crisis and its management during the disastrous five-year 2010-2014, i.e. the social majority. On the other hand, they reflect the needs of the bankrupt political system and the economic oligarchy. All these days of the debate, but also before it, the dividing lines have become clearer than ever, at least parliamentary. Because the plan and definition of this government, despite the well-known budgetary constraints and the difficulties caused by the committee, for the first time in decades has made the reversal of a disastrous social majority course as a priority. Because you know very well that in an economy, which has been subject to an unprecedented winding-up process for eight years, the moment has come for recovery. The real question, the big social issue at the heart of political conflict, is who will benefit from this recovery. That is why it is crucial that this government should remain, in order to develop redistributive features, for workers to benefit from the new wealth rather than the oligarchy. And it is precisely at this point where the dividing lines are as clear as possible. They are engraved when the Civic Opposition, with a lot of arrogance and contempt for the world of work, calls the free collective bargaining "ideoleptic obsession of the Left", while, in their view, it is not ideologically persuasive to attach to a project that wants Greece a special economic zone, with a well-regulated labour market, without labour rights, without any guarantee of protection. In the years of the destructive five-year period, exactly this project has been implemented. What New Democracy and PASOK tried to do was to strengthen and speed up the spontaneous movement of the capitalist economy into a crisis. They have carried out a project aimed at the rapid liquidation of all non-competitive enterprises and, of course, the creation of resources for the more intensive exploitation of work. The aim was to restore the competitiveness of the Greek economy, by reducing the share of wages in total GDP, by creating a new capital accumulation scheme, an uneven, without limits, without any rules. It is no coincidence that parttime work in the years of PASOK and New Democracy has become a status. From about 38% in 2010, in a two-year period, part-time work was escalated to 59% at the end of the governance of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos. Our aim is not only to limit this growing trend and course, but its overall reversal. That is why the outcome of the battle for collective bargaining is crucial. We know we'll have the New Democracy across the street. The President himself has said so. But we know that it is also necessary to restore collective bargaining, not for the sake of the Left, but for the sake of the survival of the workers themselves. The exception you have imposed on the Greek labour market must be terminated and we will do everything we can to finish. At the same time, however, this budget also highlights another priority that angers you, angers the New Democracy, angers the PASOK: the support of the social state. For the first time in the years of the crisis, the social budget has increased appropriations. Details were reported by the relevant ministers, by the Minister of Health, by the Minister of Education, by the Deputy Minister of Research, by the Minister of Labour. I would like to make it clear: in addition to 300 million for health and education support, 760 million for the implementation of the Social Solidarity Fund throughout the country, 100 million for the settlement of housing loans to very poor debtors, who cannot serve their loans, and 250 million for increasing public investment and financing research and repatriation programmes for young researchers. Is that enough? One would ask. The answer is, of course, 'no'. However, it is what we can do with the financial constraints imposed on us by the July - August 2015 agreement. What the citizens have to ask, however, is what would have happened if the negotiations that New Democracy so much likes to take, but also PASOK, hadn't preceded. Why is the 2015 negotiation so disturbing? Because you have simply never negotiated, because you have shown your own voluntary subjection to creditors' wishes. What would happen, we have to ask ourselves, if today, for 2016, but also for 2017, was the agreement that was signed in 2012 with celebrations? What would the corresponding budgetary constraints be? Primary surpluses of 4.5%! And now the New Democracy and the PASOK are bothered by 0.5% and 1.75%. You who are today showing up against 3.5% for 2018 must tell us how many years 4.5% would be. No one claims that the targets are low, but the only ones you are not entitled to talk about this are you who committed the country to 4.5% by 2031. So today, you who are talking about an austerity and overtaxation budget, what would you say to the Greek people, if you had to vote on a budget aimed at a surplus of EUR 8 billion, as you signed? And don't repeat the growth rate of 3.5%. Even a child knows that all of this was written on paper to get the debt sustainability study to beg later for sustainability certificates. You have fallen out of all your objectives and all your predictions throughout the programmes. And you'd fall out again, because you know very well, as much as you do now that you forget it, that surpluses of 4.5% and growth of 3.7% don't go together, they're mutual. So don't continue the fantasy of success story. And don't blackmail - some of you with infancy - an impossible and comic-tragic historical justice, which would cause a question, if it didn't just cause the anger. Stop celebrating for yourself now recorded in collective memory as a criminal PSI, because no business censorship, no perverted algorithm can erase or justify the pillaging of the insurance funds, the destruction of the micro-groups, the disappearance of hospital reserves, the mortgage of the Greek banks. All these accounts do is underestimate the political debate and turn it into a paradox monologue. Ladies and gentlemen, you could say a lot more, but time is a one-way one, and unfortunately, if you try to say it all together, it becomes noise. So let me close with a comment on the Prime Minister's earlier announcements. Many have been raped to be election and the answer - although clichés - is at least obvious: they judge the odds themselves. These announcements were neither a pre-electionist nor a gift. It was the minimum sign of support, but also an act of duty to those people who lift the burden of multiple crises, not only of the economic crisis, but also of the refugee one. And it is important to highlight the difference between this announcement and the no corresponding move initiated by Mr. Samaras' appointed election campaign in 2014, because then no surplus has been shared, as New Democracy falsely claims. On the contrary, the political option of derailing the programme at the time was made in the face of the specified political defeat, because the cost of EUR 450 million to remind you that it was done with insect note, was included in the 2014 budget and led to its failure to catch the target of 1.5% of the primary surplus. Let me also remind you that the account wrote 0.4% for 2015, leaving a budget gap of EUR 2 billion. But who was interested? The question was to drugize the way for the SYRIZA Government to disappear the cash reserves and to set up the setting for the 'left parenthesis'. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, it did not pass on to you, and it will not pass you today, because no non-existent resources are distributed today, but over-performance of revenues and the target for 2016 is not jeopardised. As much as the New Democracy wants derailment, to be able to justify its design for the fourth Memorandum, for a hard austerity program, placing it on SYRIZA, will not be justified. The second evaluation will be closed without legislative measures and with the restoration of collective bargaining. The great effort to reverse a course that has taken place over the last few decades will continue. The difficulties are known. The obstacles are real and social tolerances are limited. We don't fly to the clouds. We're not celebrating. We don't triumph. With consistency, straightforwardness and honesty we look the Greek people in the eyes and tell him that we will do our best. In the end, we will be judged not only by intentions, but also by the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u50	To what is the staff, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, it appears from the Minutes of this House that during yesterday's speech Mrs Fotou gave me a designation of fraudsters, to whom I have not referred. And I would like to ask the Members who are looking forward to explaining exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u52	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, as rapporteur for the Democratic Integration I have analysed Tables 123 and 124 of the draft budget report, including budgetary adjustment measures, and I have said that the cuts are 1.8 billion and the 3 billion-dollars. That makes us 4.8 billion. Against this, the government says that it will share 20% in social policy. I said that this is a fast-tracking that aims to deceive the citizens from whom the long-handed government has removed incomes and that this is how Mrs Fotio's question is answered rhetorically - which reproduces a satirical show as a slogan - 'we are fraudulents'. Mrs. Fotou had asked, and I answered rhetoric. And if Mrs Fotou - and I am finishing with this - have I referred her to what Mr Tsipras said when she spoke to the Yannina, when she described Mr Samaras' communication on the social dividend as political fraud. That is all, Mr President, and I thank you for the opportunity to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. The Minister of Interior, Mr. Skourletis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding in the step by a new Minister, our Government representative, who has, in a thorough manner, presented many of the features of the budget that we are debating today, so it makes it easier for me not to repeat a few things. The budget we have before us, which in a few hours' time will be the law of the state, comes after two quarters of a positive course of the economy. Based on the estimates of the same budget, but mainly factors outside the country, 2017 will be the first year, after many years, that Greece will be on a development path. Of course, the bet is that this growth track is stabilised, that this achievement of numbers and sizes is sustainable. There are all the conditions for doing so. The question is this: are there any forces in Europe today and outside Europe who want to block this path? Are there forces annoyed with government policy, which does not indulge in a policy of recycling austerity, which does not adopt the logic of the memorials, but is trying at all times to create the conditions of dismissal from them? I answer directly. Yes, there are. The dialogue currently taking place in the context of the completion of the second evaluation confirms such an assessment. The views of the International Monetary Fund and Mr Symble are those which really are an obstacle, not Greece not to keep its promises on the basis of the 2015 agreement, but are opinions that broaden this agreement at once. They are asking questions why they are intended not only to be consistent with the budgetary objectives to which we have committed ourselves, but to establish a Memorandum status today in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the International Monetary Fund, which came to Europe through Greece, did not come to leave either the country or Europe. He's the penis of the most extreme neoliberal views. And that is why, at the moment, there is a peculiar alliance, despite the seeming disagreement on the Greek debt management between Mr Soyble and the International Monetary Fund. These are the views that want a new Europe of German-centered, a Europe of lasting austerity, a Europe of less democratic, but overlooking that this is the road that is taking today's Europe, bringing together its cohesion, it is outside its traditions and strengthening the extreme right. These are the views that will test the European path and cohesion in the coming years. Of course, the targeting of these forces is well known and their attitude is revealing. The question is the domestic forces what they say about it. What does the New Democracy say, what does the PASOK say about these given targets on the part of these forces? Your attitude, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, is revealing. You are in favour of working with the International Monetary Fund. You do not feel the need to make any self-criticism about the commitments of your governments for 4.5% of primary surpluses. Now you've changed it, but this is the convenience that the opposition gives you. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] But your work is still paying for it. Your bankruptcy, social and economic, we are managing right now. You do not feel the need to say 'yes, we are wrong'. On the contrary, you are communicating ideologically, politically and programmaticly with Mr Shoeble and the International Monetary Fund. These people know them. You are not addressing ammonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister announced a number of measures yesterday. These are an effective confirmation of the social sensitivity of the government, its intention whenever it achieves its objectives, first and foremost to address those most in need. It is a sample of writing that will be repeated at the end of 2017, if we are given the opportunity. It is a social sensitivity orientation, it is a different sign of writing than those who ultimately seek to become the Memorandum of Understanding in our country. You heard from Mr. Janakopoulos that you tried to have fun with this measure and compared it to your 2014 policy. In fact, I have heard a Member from the New Democracy. He obviously did not understand and said 'the budget that we are discussing has already been overturned, because the Prime Minister announced measures'. I would remind you that they relate to sizes of the year closed, of 2016, and they are not expenditures for 2017, as you did. Obviously your MP, if I'm not mistaken, was Mr. Giulekas, taking lessons from your own practice, when in 2014 you wrote the so-called social dividend, resulting from the so-called surplus, as the expense of the current year, blowing the target for primary surplus. Why? Why were you following the way of the great fleeing and escape, seeing that SYRIZA is coming to power. You did this in all fields, in all ministries. They are the ones that remain indelibly in the consciousness of the world and evaluate you every time he hears you speak. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not willing to play this role that you are proposing to us. I have heard from the Vice-President of your party - not another official, but from the Vice-President - who is always trying to communicate in the foam, Mr Georgiadis, saying: 'But how have they dared and made this distribution out of over-performance of the goals when they hadn't consulted the lenders?' And I ask you: is there a matter of degrees of freedom for you that the democratically elected government must have? Isn't that a matter? How do you finally see the role of the Greek Government? Look, if you want to turn the democratically elected government of Greece into an agency or branch of Mr. Siomple and the International Monetary Fund, we are giving it your role. We are not willing to do that. Last week, ladies and gentlemen, I was in the CEDEFOP conference, and there I had the opportunity to hear the Chief of Officerial Response, addressing with a clear awkward tone and a way toward elected mayors, talking about deficiencies in the field of local government. Of course, life is playing games. Who's talking about staff shortages in self-government? The one who connected his name to the municipal police, school guards, technical high school teachers and all those who one summer saw losing their job through television. The one who was identified with availability and redundancies. This is your proposal for the public, at a time of great social and humanitarian crisis that the Greek State should be in the face of those who are affected, and of course were affected by your own policies, on your day. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Voridis’ shadow Minister in his speech in the previous days asking why 214 million of the funds withheld to the local government are not registered for 2017. And I answer: Because it was known in advance from a 2009 decision that we arrived at the last eighth instalment of this agreement. Consequently, it was something we knew. So this is not something that was known. In particular, I would say that you cannot make such a criticism. Because during the days of your governments and your co-government, local government lost over 50% of its resources. We have said that, of course, there is an issue of increasing resources for local government. And we have called on a truly honest dialogue from the next until now, in early 2017, to see how 2017 will be the starting point for a gradual increase in resources towards local self-government. However, this increase cannot be translated into economic aid alone. We need to see what we need to change, based on the course of application of the 'CLEAR'. And today it is mature to go to a new reform of the institutional framework of self-government, which will clarify relations with the central state with the other levels of selfgovernment, a reform that has the element of the development dimension, a reform that will encourage local communities to become involved in the governance of local municipalities. And this can be done through the introduction of the mere analogous, that is, through what you are advocating. And I ask: If locality, as defined within a municipality, and at the same time, knowing about the very specific problems that local residents themselves know, is the real territory, so that those who want to be genuinely engaged in expressing themselves through a genuine democratic electoral system, if the area of local government is not for the implementation of a more democratic representation of people, what other place is there? Why, then, do you hate it? Do you know why? Because for you local government is an image of the central political scene. But that is what drives people out of participation in local problems today. It drives young people away. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole of the summer has been a systematic effort, a median misinformation operation around a matter that I have been dealing with for months, that of the CISA. Alongside this, a whole story has been created on the issue of privatisation and investment. So here today we are given the opportunity to restore certain things and to learn, above all, the world. This competition was completed in 2013 and you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, had made it. Previously, in order to satisfy the potential Austrian buyers - which is, of course, a natural monopoly - there is no competitive market for the network operator, it is by itself someone - illegally incorporated state and European aid in breach of European law. Did you do it? You did it! However, while you were aware that 'SOCAR', because it is a natural gas producer, is not at the same time granted the right to manage and operate natural gas networks - a basis of Union law - yet you have proceeded with the tender. Since then, the competition and its results have been categorised. We came to correct what you had deliberately done for the benefit of the Azeri company, namely to take a legislative initiative prohibiting increases of 68% for Greek companies and for Greek households. What do you say, under the circumstances, does the Greek industries using natural gas bear 68% more at the end of the use of natural gas? They can handle it? Is this how jobs or investments are protected for which you are being cut? What interests, then, are they linking you with the Azeri ‘SOCAR’? Look at each other and ask yourself, because obviously no one can claim that this policy serves investment, employment in Greece and Greek businesses. If we had done so from the outset, we would have done so differently - we have shown this to another model of management of public networks, to the IPTO - because at the moment the view that takes place in Europe, the view that is being strengthened, is that, where there are networks, these should be controlled by the public. In this way - something the European Investment Bank has said to us - when there is the public by 50% plus 1%, low funding is guaranteed. So all the other things you say, that is, because the TECF has lost investment and jobs, it is completely false as you say in dozens of other cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties are many and many. We weren't the ones who tried to speak with one language of beauty. You will see that what the Prime Minister did the other day is not a pre-election move, because it is not in our plans to go for elections. There's no need for the election. The economy can't stand the elections. That's what you confess where and where your own members, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Just your rhetorical opposition makes you say that. Of course, you are calling for elections to cover the substance and the mark of your proposals, which are those of the IMF and Mr. Shoeble. That is what you are trying to cover, that is, you have nothing new to present to Greek society today, nothing different from what happened in the years that you were in governance and led to the current deadlocks. We will continue on the same path as this determination that characterises the people who come from the Left, giving every day small and large battles to defend the greatest part of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, while it would be easy for the parliamentary spokesperson to play his part in the debate on the budget to be difficult. It makes it difficult, because most of the ministers who recommend the budget and the funds for their Ministry, allocate 90% of the time to comment on the government's previous real or non-reals 2012-2014 and only one tenth of the tenth to suggest what is the main subject of the discussion, namely the allocation of funds and the explanation of the priorities they have in the field of their Ministry. You will have noticed, first of all, that the Chief of Officer's Opposition, Mr. Mitsotakis, although absent, has his honour. There is no Minister who will not comment on his point of view. Of course, you will tell me that it is the pressure of the polls, that the fifteen or more units of difference are too many, that it is necessary. But, in any case, it is necessary - and I would like to refer in particular to the Minister of Justice, because I think he is interested in hearing it - when a comment is made on the Chief of Anti-Population, it would be good to see a certain perception that he probably knows what he says. Previously, the Minister of Justice - justified, otherwise, because he is new to the Ministry - commented voluntarily on the report by the President of the New Democracy this morning to the Association of Judges and Prosecutors on the dismissal of nine thousand detainees. In fact, he did sums. He said: 'How do we have nine thousand and nine thousand left, we had eighteen thousand?' The Minister and the Government considered that this was how the argument of the President of the New Democracy was undermined. Minister, I have a reply from the Ministry to which you are head, and you are, of course, right. The number isn't nine thousand. They are nine thousand two hundred forty-nine fired, seven thousand sixty-four with Law.4322/2015 and another thousand five hundred seventy-five with Law 4411/2016. I'm putting it in the Minutes for your information. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would simply ask the other ministers to consider that, in any case, contrary to the government, opposition is usually cautious and is doing its job properly. Now we're going to all the other interesting things we've heard. We were told in the form of a challenge here, a challenge - a response, in the comment and the Head of New Democracy and many fellow Members, that 3.5% of the primary surplus for a long period is too high and cannot be tolerated. We were therefore told as a catalyst to destroy us. 3.5% is more than 4.5%? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. 3.5% is more than 4.5%, because 4.5% stood on growth and also 4.5% concerned a year in 2018. The 3.5% concern over the decade and beyond of the programme. So, as strange as it sounds, it sounds weird until the second grade. After the second grade, when one can read the numbers beyond one, that is, it can combine beyond two elements, it sounds understandable. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, your 3.5% is much bigger than our 4.5% a year. To be informed. Deceiving Greek society does not help anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u58	Do you know the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u59	Also, to be clear about what we are talking about, what has happened all these years here? Because we were presented as if Greece in 2014 with the co-operation government was before the lips of the abyss and suddenly revolted, dismantled that government's yoke, your popular government came, the people's cooperation SYRIZA - ANEL and everything is going well, with difficulties, with battles, against evils. Bad guys are changing roles. They're the same, but, when it suits you in your word, they're the bad guys, when they don't suit you, they're good. Whatever you want. In any case, however, you did everything. Ladies and gentlemen, should we go to the top of the list before we go to the top? GDP this year, in 2016, is 20 billion less than it would have been if the cooperation government had continued. I will present to you the statistics of the European Commission. They are the same ones that you call for, they are the same source that invokes growth in time. You have cost us - not all - only GDP 20 billion. This is the second one for the Minutes. I'll give it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the unquestionable. Deposits have decreased by EUR 40 billion - which is not disputed -, EUR 133 billion now and EUR 173 billion in December 2014. Red loans have gone up to 110 billion euros. It was less than 70 million euros. It was 39.9% then, over 45% is now. Do we doubt that the two systemic banks of the four in a moment of economic crisis have been lacking administration for about six months? Has the State reached its dues to the private sector of EUR 6.2 billion, when it owed only EUR 3.8 billion in 2014? In other words, you have falsified the private sector with about EUR 3 billion to call it popular. Is the absorption of the ESRB 2.33% in sector and 2.53% in regional only when there is a need for investment in the market? Do we have a disinvestment? Is the investment in 2015 less than EUR 261 million? You will tell me: "In 2014 what did you do?" I'll answer you. We had 1,26 billion euros positive. In 2015, we turn to disinvestment. The only number that has a meaning and one must look at it is what Mr Pappas said earlier. He said: "Yes, it is well what you say, but we are back to development." What does Mr. Pappas invoke? It is claimed that GDP in the third quarter of 2016 rose by 1.8%. It's right, it's true. Where's the lie? Do you know what it's based on? It's based on quarters. The quarters - perhaps this is technical and we do not all know that - are compared to the same quarter of last year. The same quarter of the previous year, 2015, that is, was one of the worst quarters in Greek economic history at any time. Do you know why? Because they were the Capital Controls. Suddenly, the country paralyzed, mistreated a banking system. So the government now comes and bases the recovery on the increase in that quarter, the quarter that was absolutely nothing, nothing was said. I'm filing the table in the Minutes, compared to knowing what numbers we're told in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of your economic success, I think we have responded well. We are now going to the subject of the redistribution scenario, because Mr Janakopoulos - whom I hope will be a success - is a new Minister, an ironhead, to be good - told us that growth is a given one. I wish, Minister. I'm afraid she's just wanted. But it's in your sense. How do we redistribute Mr. Janakopoulos? First of all, who's the enemy? It's entrepreneurship. Bad people who want the profit. No one should win in this country. To go to Bulgaria to win, to go to Cyprus to win. Greece doesn't need business. We only care about redistribution. The creation of wealth isn't our concern, we've got it broken, it'll be here automatically. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read you something from a politician in your area. He's not Greek. I am clandestinely saying: 'French needs its operations, from all its operations. For they are its enterprises, which, through innovation, at the risk of their capital, at the risk of their shareholders, by mobilising their employees, meet the needs of their customers, create the value, give birth to the wealth that benefits us all." He continues in French: 'Et moi, j' aime l' enterprise'. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the candidate of France, Mr Manuel Vals. You've got something against business, obviously. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But now we're going to redistribution. You, ladies and gentlemen, who are supposed to be lying down to the poor, tell me, are you imposing taxes of EUR 2.5 to EUR 2.6 billion - is 1,1 billion direct taxes and the rest of the indirect taxes - you are changing the general principle of Central Left that indirect taxes are unfair? You're changing that. Secondly, the indirect taxes you impose are EUR 437 million of VAT. Who's it hurting? Does it hurt the rich or harm the poor? The EUR 266 million tax on beer, coffee and cigarettes, in essence, ladies and gentlemen, are harming who? You want to tell us? Beanits drink in Greece, don't the poor drink? Also, do you remember the wine you had taxed, along with the tsipouro, in your previous version? The mobile phone, the TV, who's this all about? Are they about the rich and the super-rich? I'm asking you, to know who you're taxing. In any case, however, it is obvious that you are looking against everything, rich and poor, poor and poor. Anyone who breathes in this country must be taxed to death. That's your perception of things. But if you're kind, can you tell me anything about unemployment? For you have been bored here with a view to reducing unemployment. In fact, unemployment is about 23%. Always the economic sizes have analyses that need to be "exploited". You need to read a little more. Have you ever seen where long-term unemployment has become in Greece? Only 8.6% of those who were unemployed in the first quarter found work in Greece in the second quarter. It is the worst number in the European Union. The worst! We're twenty-eight! Long-term unemployment, which is a bomb on the foundations of this country, breaks it. And long-term unemployment is growing, it is not falling! That's the truth. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are some other things here which should be answered to the end. We followed two speeches. One was the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, who told us in his speech - he will have the floor later - that an assessment of one year has been agreed - the difference, which will be covered, is only 20 million euros - and that is the bad version, as you said, Minister, less than 200 million for next year. So far, I have to tell you - I did not like almost 200 million - that I left with some peace. But the next day your colleague, Mr. Juliarakis, was here. So Mr. Juliarakis told us something else, which you know. He told us that the International Monetary Fund is asking for 4.5 billion measures for 2019. I must tell you that what, which is the most important position of any minister here, is something that needs to be explained. Yes, please and immediately from you, so we can answer it. Because whatever's there, we're telling you quite clearly. We told you - and I tell you again - that we want the evaluation to be done in the best possible way. That's the country's interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in two minutes. However, if we need 4.5 billion measures to close the IMF evaluation, then I very much fear that things are almost the same as drama. Please for your explanations. I will take one more minute of my time to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this: apart from economics, budgets, forecasts, disagreements, there are wider issues, outside the budget, at least at second reading, which are not going well. First of all, I am referring to migration. The management you do in immigration is tragic, and this is why extortion, as far as I understand it, is bound by the Turkish President and the Turkish Government. The increase in inputs yesterday cannot be random. On the one hand, I fear that the Minister for Migration Policy no longer just does his job well, but it does not feel that the country is not doing well and on the other hand is facing a major problem, for which you should explain to us whether you have anything more to do. Because what you do is not enough. In external relations, too, the situation is not at all good. Everyone - everyone! - they stand up against our country, whether they are powerful or powerless or have differences or not. They consider it time for them to account for Greece or, in any case, to record claims against Greece. And that's where we have to be serious. I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u60	Who's everybody?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u61	Our neighbors! Don't you know that our neighbors have raised claims against the country? Do I tell you? Because if I tell you this, Mr. Comrade, then it's a little dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u62	There's two of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u63	Oh, being two is satisfying you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u64	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u65	Oh, okay. If I may, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I want to understand something. Because before that, Mr Skourletis told him that 90%, Minister, was against the New Democracy. But, in general terms, when you referred to the broader policies, you said that these policies strengthen the extreme right. So, to ask you: Does the visit to Kastelorizo strengthen or does not strengthen the extreme right? Does the party of your Members alone beside the Members of the Golden Dawn strengthen or does it not strengthen the extreme right? Would you, ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, but are you very proud of that? Well, let me know! So, this thing is what you want for the place? Our common position vis-à-vis anyone who raises a claim against Greece, will you answer it? With the Golden Dawn MPs? I am afraid, of course, that many of you feel much worse than us have seen you. Apart from that, I come to forty years, because it often sounds like it. "You forty years" and again "forty years" and give it "forty years" and "all forty years" and "forty years" and "forty years"! Ladies and gentlemen, I would agree to discuss this argument, if there were no basic parameters that differentiate it, that you first do not govern yourself, you rule in a coalition with a party whose leader was a New Democracy MEP for the longest of the years you have been accusing the New Democracy. As if that were not enough, however, the largest part of your members - not of the parliament, although it is enough, but of your wider members - or if you want a huge number, come from PASOK and I have to say not of the best part of PASOK. Take care, then, and make up your mind. Forty years if you want to convict them in total, well done, but delete tomorrow morning from SYRIZA any executive was present at PASOK and, besides, dismantle the coalition with the Independent Greeks and finish this story. Or else stop the 40-year-old story. You can't have both sides of the coin with you. I conclude by saying that things are not good at all. I don't think Mr. Juliarakis escaped him and talked about 4.5 billion. He'll give us an answer, of course, Mr. Chakalotos, and I hope so. But, anyway, ladies and gentlemen, you have cost Greek society too much, you have expensively cost the country and the country. It's obvious - I always tell you and I tell you without wanting to insult you or provoke you - that you are coming out. How long you will remain in power - if it is a few weeks, a few months, a short time - that is not important. What is important, and will be important to you in the future, is not to cause more damage to the place. So you can do that by voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and two educational attendants from the 9th Kalamaria High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u68	There's a reference to Mr. Kontonis. Obviously, he may need an answer from Mr. Contonis. The arguments are interesting - the Bureau does not disagree - and they are vigilant about the debate. But for you, Mr. Chakalote, what exactly was said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u69	If he wanted a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u70	The Minister's right. I have addressed the floor and it is serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u71	Okay, then. Mr. Contonis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. The honourable spokesman of the New Democracy made a statement earlier, including in the Minutes the reply from the Ministry of Justice, about the citizens who were imprisoned and released. I would like to say that the answer reads as follows: 'We note for the first time a reduction in the population of the prisoners of five hundred people at the Korydallos Reservation Shop, on the one hand, following the application of the provisions of Law4322, which brought a significant displacement to the penitentiary, with a decrease in the average population of detention stores of 18.3%, a reduction of the average of 12 000 forty-seven to nine thousand forty-eighty forty'. That's what I told you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u73	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u74	What I'm saying, Mr. Treasury. And don't forge from the Step of the House any decisions and answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u75	Heavy talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u76	So don't tell me what I'm saying. I'm answering. Not only that, but you are reading releases in the table with the transitional provisions for adults, which, in any case, were valid and at the height of six thousand fifty-three and fifty-three, while releases under the law that the government had passed were thirty-three. I would like to tell you, therefore, that you sum up even those who were to be released under normal conditions in this number. What did you want to keep them in prison? So you see, this is probably a misunderstanding, and I am at your disposal at all times and at all times to explain to you or read this table wrongly. In any case, however, the document of the Ministry of Justice tells you that we had 12 thousand forty-seven prisoners and we reached nine thousand eight hundred forty - what I told you today. We were never able to dismiss this size you mentioned, which was also mentioned by the Chief of Staff. If you want, understand. If you don't want me to tell you what? I can further analyse this table, which you read. I can tell you again that you sum up prisoners who were released, who would have been released in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u77	Minister, it's understandable. Thank you very much. Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u78	It's enough for me, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never put a colleague in this Chamber in a difficult position and have also tried in my position for the Minister of Justice to be stylish. I just had to do it because it was referred to the President of Officerial Representation, and that is my parliamentary duty. I repeat, clearly, without wanting to comment on what he said about forgery, etc., which do not honor him, that the Minister's answer says: With Law No.4322/2015 the releases were seven thousand six hundred seventy-four. Under Law 4411/2016 the releases were a thousand five hundred seventy five. That's the document. There is no question of explanation, Minister, about reading. Please don't insist. There's no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u79	I insist, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u80	Well, you might insist on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u81	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u82	In this case, however, the subject is a lesson in knowledge rather than in knowledge of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u83	Well, Mr. Chakaloto...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u84	If I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u85	But, Mr. Contonis, this has been clarified. What else are you going to say? You'll say something and he'll tell you something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u86	I just need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u88	I'm addressing you, Mr. Teddy. I know you're a man of good faith.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u89	It's the document, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u90	Send me another answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u91	No, no. Watch out. I can tell you again that the amendment that had been voted on by Parliament refers to the entire article of this law, all of it. For this category of special prisoners, who have been released, your document says so in the table clearly. It's a hundred thirty three.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u92	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u93	The others would have been fired in any case, whether the disability law had been passed or not. How else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u94	Good, Minister, the Chiefs have been warned to be on time to speak. Please respect the predetermined procedure. The way we go, the conversation may be interesting, but we're going out of time. Mr. Chakalato, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u95	Yes, to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u96	Just for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u97	I think the easiest way to explain what you asked is by starting with why we voted for the cutter in May. Why? Because there is a difference in the macroeconomic basis on which we are also the return of measures between us and the European institutions and the International Monetary Fund. In other words, because of different estimates, the IMF says, where we are, with the measures we have taken, in 2018, we will reach 1.5 % primary surplus, while we and Europeans say that we will reach 3.5 % surplus. That is why the Europeans said that we do not want a cut and that, with these measures taken by the Greeks, we believe that they will reach 3.5%. The IMF, however, said that I do not believe it and I want other measures. So, when I say now that there is a little more difference with the IMF, I mean that they think they need not 200, but 300 million euros to reach 1.5%. The IMF has never changed its position. For the period after 2018, i.e. 2019 and 2020, he tells you that with these measures and as Greece is going to reach 1.5%. The fight for the cutter - whether we should take other measures, whether we should legislate, whether there is another mechanism - is because there is this great disagreement between the IMF and our European institutions and our Greek Government, about these things. So Mr. Juliarakis was talking about how you go from 1.5% to 3.5%, while I said that the IMF, to close in 2018, which he thinks will reach 1.5%, calls for 300 million euros, while the European institutions of EUR 200 million. I think I explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u98	Yes, sir. And then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u99	Same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that we are fighting for nothing and I wonder whether there is respect for the world that is suffering. Because here the New Democracy, where I attend discussions, says that it will now make everything perfect. But the New Democracy is not a new party. Two years ago he had authority. Why didn't he do it then? I don't think it's the New Democracy. It's the old New Democracy, it's the same, they just changed the head. Is Mr. Mitsotakis smarter than Mr. Samaras? I don't think so. So, should we rely on that, that Mr. Mitsotakis is smarter, while Mr. Samaras was a fool? With the same material, with the same attitude, they promise they'll save everything, that they'll solve it all. Anyway, that's a matter of world intelligence. Days ago, speaking at a television station, I said that it is worth giving all of us EUR 200 from our pension and our wages. I've said it quite spontaneously, because I see that every day the Turks are threatening. What do we do? The President of the Republic comes out and just answers that we do not give anything, we do not grant anything. But where's that thing going? They threaten to send us the flags with a courier and we get the president to answer? The president's offspring are being consumed. The president must have respect both for himself and the nation. If he comes out to answer, it means he gets into the crazy game. Because that is where we have paranoid people who do not respect international conventions, who respect nothing and who every day what they remember rejoice. So the channels started to find me and say that Leventis wants to reduce the world's pensions, while the positions of the Centro Association are well known, that I would ask for this for over EUR 1,500. Furthermore, I call for the three hundred and thirty thousand triple pensions to merge into one and that it is nothing more than EUR 1,500. I call for a million and fifty thousand double pensions to be merged into one and for nothing to be more than EUR 1,500, and I call for the eighty thousand pensions of the rich to be abolished. He's a witness, Mr. Katrugalos, who, when he visited me, I asked him for this, but he gave me a strange answer. He said the President of the Republic is not in agreement. When I asked him "why don't you cut off from the wealthy pensions, rented or deposit interest, dividends of companies or other sources over 3,000 euros a month?" he told me that he had discussed it with the President of the Republic and that it was unconstitutional. I think it's time we did brave things for homeland. However, I have not seen any wings in this House say that we need to equip the country. Is the country equipped? I have made sure that I am informed and I am told that the F-35s of a new generation, a fifth generation, have to order them if we want balance in the Aegean Sea. Unless we want to walk Turks and us to get the President out to answer, so at some point we'll end up in a hot episode, you have no doubt. You love people a lot. More than me you love the world and let the country look! That's how I feel. So I made a letter to the President of the Republic and asked him to come together, to invite the Chiefs of the three Arms to tell us the exact picture of the country. The President of the Republic called us and said that the Prime Minister, on the basis of the new constitution, recommends a Board of Heads. I sent the same letter immediately to Mr Tsipras. It's been seven days. Mr. Tsipras had other jobs, he was in Cuba, he had more serious jobs, we had to bury Castle! Does anyone in this Chamber have any interest in the country's defence? We said: from those who take over 1,500 euros. I'm giving the explanation. In addition, this Chamber should also make a concession. Three wages per year the MPs will make available for the country's defence. Three wages, did you hear that? We'll make it a formal proposal to the first bill. Three payrolls. I want to see the degree of patriotism of each. For the defence of the country to make three wages available to the MPs. So what do you want? Because outside they say: 'Give it to you.' Immediately the comments started. They were coming out on a channel, and I'm being haunted that I want to cut pensions. The Centro Association is facing an information racism, in other words they are not saying our entire communication, they say what they want, they cut off a series and then unfavourable comments begin. I don't know what the Press Minister, Mr. Pappas, does, how he understands. They've got ERT every afternoon talking to each other. Some journalists speak to each other, another is PASOK cracked, another of the New Democracy, another of SYRIZA. These people speak to each other and the parliamentary party does not see his announcement published, they cut off a word that does not make sense. The channels broadcast what I'm asking to cut 200 euros from all over the world. That's what they broadcast! When will this racism be tolerated, cannot a parliamentary party speak to the people? I will also tell you something about pensions, because the institutions have come and said something else, which seems to have not been followed by some of the majority either. My position is to protect the pensions of EUR 1,500 at all costs. The institutions said 1,200 euros mixed to be the maximum pension. That's where we'll end up. I warn you that we are going for Bulgarian salaries and pensions, unless we take measures. I want this to be written in the Minutes, the tape to be kept. If there is steam in the House, we will become Bulgaria, because in the meantime there is no investment. Do you see anything coming? They are making friendly efforts, it seems, by the relevant finance ministers. Do they see any investments in front of them? You know, when in a country we try to put VAT on the islands, put taxes on mobile phones, coffee, pay-TV, put taxes everywhere, and by this way we believe that the country's economic problem will be solved, then we are fools. There's got to be growth, new blood in the economy. Is there any chance that he will go in the way we go, with a hundred and fifty three Members, and with Mr. Kammenos telling His Majesty Hieronym "what time you tell me I'm throwing the government?" Is an investor coming here? In any case, a government that has not succeeded in bringing an investor to the third year? I wish. I wish you'd be miraculous! I think that a parliamentary party, the Central Association, which is based on common sense and says things simply, such as saving everything we can in this demolished country, will not let it communicate with the world, people learn their views. This is the responsibility of the press minister to do it, in my opinion. It is not possible for ERT, let us say, from a six-series statement to take only one order and that is this communication from the Centroon Union. He's got to transmit it all. It broadcasts gossip, broadcasts other things and does not transmit the official announcement of the parties. These remind other times, not times, democratised, dominated by a democratic perception. You gave 640.620 million - I did not follow the numbers - for the so-called thirteenth pension. Finally, it is not a third pension because it does not refer to everyone, but it refers to those who take up to 800 euros. I'm not judging that. I deplore the fact that you have not come to an agreement. Greece must not be dissatisfied. Why do we choose conflict roads with Europe and do we not choose streets of understanding? If Mr Tsipras said, 'I have agreed and the existing surplus is agreed that everyone would be given the poor', we would all say 'bravo'. The foreigners expressed their surprise. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't you care? Are you choosing a conflict road with Europe? I want to know: What is simpler than consulting a government with foreigners on this matter? Shouldn't you? You know, if you're going to agree on so many other things. That's not what I said you shouldn't do, I repeat. Do it. But get in touch. You give Brussels a picture of the conflict. I tell you this officially that you are giving it and that you are preparing for conflict. Remember your old self, your memorial self, the drachma itself. That is what you are preparing, that is to say go to a situation where Europe is confronted, since Europe is not giving us it. You said you'd get a debt haircut and I had here, from this room, warned Tsipra that he wouldn't get anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u102	Why, didn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u103	Yes, you did! Don't tell you what you got! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Is that right? Did you? You must be ashamed of yourself because you meant a debt cut. That's what you meant and leave the rest of it now. All of you who went out to the channels meant debt cuts. You didn't mean prolongations and relaxations and stuff like that. Let's explain. So nothing you didn't get. The Prime Minister himself came out and threatened for elections. All right, New Democracy has its own opinion on elections. But did the Prime Minister himself not threaten elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u104	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u105	You don't? Then you don't know Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the President is asking the oral questions. He doesn't ask you to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u107	Mr Tsipras' debate has been translated as a pretext for elections, if Europe does not consent, as you say. That's why I'm saying that you're coming back to the conflict and you're choosing a road of conflict, and you're dangerous. Because Greece at the moment wants a government to consult with Europe and not a government to run into conflict with Europe. If you have this in mind, at the heart of your mind, please leave the quickest, because I say that any Prime Minister who takes Greece out of the euro will go to jail. I'd said it before. Fortunately, Tsipras saved himself. I said it long before he went to sign it all in June 2015 and you said "exceed". But did you see what was nice? While he was tearing up memoirs while he was digging "Souths" against the North, did you see how he got unearthed in common? Or do you not like the word? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What do you think Tsipras did on June night? A deal? Did he make a deal? Anyway. I would like to say a few words about Cyprus, because Anastasiades appears to want to make a deal and says that their difference was that, while the Turks accepted fifty thousand, he wants sixty-seven thousand, the Greek Cypriot side to return to the Occupied Territories. I warned Anastasiades, if the settlers and the occupation troops of Cyprus do not leave, not to sign, because it will be betrayal. I warned him, and I have no sin! From that point on, let's do whatever you want. And Karamanlis once, with the Agreement of Zurich and London, put the Turks as a guarantor, and then the Turks took off. And then came the dictatorship, the junta, the tragedy of Cyprus and so forth. I would also like to refer to the Skopje issue. I spoke yesterday at a NATO conference and NATO did what it would protect the beaches in the Aegean from refugees, that it was doing patrols and so on. I said, then, when Turkey arrived in Cyprus in 1974, what did NATO do? Neutrality! Now, if Turkey attacks an island, are you convinced that NATO will go to protect us? Why do you think I want the plane order? Because in the Aegean there is the balance of terror. There will be no NATO, no Merkel and no European to fight next to us. I have said this before in the Chamber, but I deserve to say once again that an ambassador told me that Karamanlis, Tsipras, Simitis, Mitsotakis have agreed on 'Nova Macedonia'. You told me, Mr. Leventis, do you disagree? I replied: “They have agreed. They asked society?' Does the people agree that the word 'Macedonia' should be given? All of you here, do you agree? If you agree, good for you! You should all get a prize.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u108	What do you think? Tell us your opinion!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u109	The ambassador has anything to do with the planes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u110	All right! Leave who the ambassador was. You are the best ambassadors of giving the name! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken today to the prosecutors and judges, who have a court of law, on the basis of the Constitution and are paid and their remuneration is determined, and I said to them: "You are the only order you determine your fee. This is not to your credit, because other people are and have stomachs, both workers and the unemployed and the ports and the military." But they don't have a mercenary to do whatever they want. Just the judges. I honor the judges, but it's not nice in a constitution of a social order to define that wage. I also told them something else, because George Papandreou, the Old Democrat, had once spoken of "state of judges". When justice makes decisions which have a financial effect, i.e. appeals to a sector which has cut its pension since 2009 and is asking for cuts back and judges that they are right to demand it and that 500 million should be returned from where to return? Judges should not make decisions with financial and economic results because they do not know the state's financial situation. They don't have that right and create a division in society. Judges must look at the legality and constitutionality of any administrative decision, because otherwise we are going to conflicts of power. As the government must respect judicial decisions, so they must not enter the fields of executive power, ladies and gentlemen. In Syros there is a shipyard, the "Youth", which is slowing down. The government went and gave a tank of the Navy to get $4 million. These workers are due to nineteen wages. With the 4.5 million that the government gave, they'll get one or a half wages. What about these people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u111	All the wages will be taken away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u112	I think it's the Greek government's duty to assign the warship work there. It's a chance. Why assign them to private shipyards? It's a debt, it's a historic company. The country is deindustrialised if this ship is closed. I would draw a little attention to the government, because they are late. They're cutting off the power. There is a EUR 37 million scandal in '9.84'. The people who participate there are PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy, who, by apologizing, said their mayor to spend them. We see costs in a cuffet buffet, flowers, whatever you want. There, why don't you talk? You're saying you're chasing corruption and struggling. How are you chasing her? He ranks in your ranks as a man who declared a mere member of the board of directors. So, I'm sorry, the simple board member didn't know what's going on there? You're a member of the Board of Directors and you're signing to spend the City of Athens money? Isn't that money? This is where I see you very calmly. So, how much was it supposed to be, 37 billion dollars to get involved? I wonder, gentlemen, why don't you talk? I see the Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u113	The mayor has a responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u114	Everyone's responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u115	The mayor has a responsibility? Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u116	It does. But listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u117	He's the one with the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u118	Say you're a mayor and you appoint a board of directors. Who's spending the money, the mayor or the board of directors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u119	Yeah, who's giving it up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u120	The board has no responsibility? I'm sorry, this is where you're going. The board has no responsibility? Is that what you're telling us? The mayor has a responsibility, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u121	He's a mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u122	That's why I said New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u123	Does it have anything to do with SYRIZA's "9,84" board?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, you are not having a dialogue now, to know if the board of directors is at Syriza. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u125	I think that among the accused he is a Member of your Parliament. If I'm wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u126	If you found anything, tell us. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Comrade, what do you want now? Should he inform you of the composition of the board of directors? But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u128	I might be wrong. I ask the ministers. There are ministers here who deal with corruption. But I don't denounce anything, replicating news, which was published all over the press. I don't think you can hear it from me, ladies and gentlemen. For God's sake! We have the poll companies. I told you last time I was in America and in a poll... Did I lie? So, there's no Member of your '9,84' board at the time money was being spent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u129	The board has nothing to do with SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u130	Go back to me, Satan! When an organisation is run, is it not run by the board? Who's he running from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u131	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u132	From the neighborhood donkey?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u133	It has nothing to do with SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u134	Please, gentlemen! We've put up with a lot of things, gentlemen! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Well done, if you're backing it all up! They did the same in PASOK and New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u135	But it has nothing to do with SYRIZA, sir! We're not in a relationship! What's his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u136	Now, what kind of appetite is it you have, Mr. Colleague? What's suddenly got into you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u137	So, all the press reports are all false and you're the saints?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u138	We have nothing to do with this, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u139	Isn't there a Member who participated in the board?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u140	We have nothing to do with this, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u141	We heard that, Mr. Colleague, we heard you had nothing to do with it. Don't insist!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u142	You have nothing to do with it. If you don't have an affair, I'm sorry. But if you have a relationship, as I think, and you are trying to cover it up, you are not doing well. People are watching. I think they've written in the press who the defendants are. Isn't that right? And that the case-file will come here for immunity, so it's written. I might be wrong. I don't know, I might be wrong. We'll see. In the polls, then, in America, a poll had 5.5% in front of Tsipras and another 12.5% in front of Mitsotakis. And a senator laughed and said, "What's going on?" I have asked for an independent authority to be set up so that every polling company can submit all the information to be approved - if possible on the same day - and then announced. Here has become the "whoever wants, writes what he wants" on the front page. You're not making any move. Looks like chaos is serving. Now it may not serve you, but you are not only thinking about today. You know, many times the Opposition, when it engraves a scandal that harms it, smacks it because it says to you: "I'll come back sometime, why should I lose the guns with which I feed spoon the world?" These weapons have been useful for decades in both PASOK and New Democracy, making the game of bipartisanism. If we do not create an objective polling authority, then we will have one day to lead one another and the other will also laugh at the world with us. Mr. Mitsotakis, who speaks and today when I heard him at the Areo Ice, said that he will give one, the other, he will all. I think that is inaccurate. I believe that it is time for the allied governments and should not go out as mediators or candidates, some to announce that they will govern. He's a nerve. Telling a people that they will governments is a maximum of courage, in my humble opinion. That's what I wanted to change, voting for the simple analogue, and they started writing that I was going with SYRIZA, while Tsipras himself knew from the first day that I was not sacrificing a course forty years to go with him and no one, nor with God himself. Forty years I have fought the bipartite system and will not change now. Whatever the people say. I leave my luck to the people and it's enough for me. I, you know, have always had personal contact with the simple voter. I'm the man I'm talking to with the superintendent, talking to the simple man. And many say to me, Why are you sitting on the street with them? But it's my chapter. It's my power. That's why I'm not afraid if they're leaving MPs. I'm not afraid because one of them takes me, five will give the people. I'm not afraid. Let everyone know. I have a personal relationship with society. Don't forget that, you and all polling companies and everybody. Don't forget. So Mr. Mitsotakis says he comes as a mediator and will be a better mediator than Tsipras. He'll be a better mediator. I will strive to prove that the era of mediaism is over and we have to return to a page. And if the country went bankrupt by self-powered governments, it went bankrupt. It didn't go bankrupt by the co-operation and alliance governments. He went bankrupt by everyone who ruled and who, on the altar of his stay, made ruffles, made scandals to remain in power. And if I blame Mrs. Gennamas, who I otherwise like, is because if Mitsotakis makes a triumph of triumph, he'll owe it to her. PASOK is a party that always had the simple analogue in its puppies and should not have done that. If he has 50 seats in his pocket, Mr. Mitsotakis asking for an election, he owes it to Mrs. Gennamas. This people will punish it. And I don't say that with hate. Mrs. Gennamata thinks I'm the one who's saying it to hunt her down, punish her. I appreciate her and her father was the only one from PASOK with whom I had a conversation. In the year 2016, however, he goes and gives fifty seats to a Mitsotakis, who knows who he is, that he betrayed George Papandreou, that he is the chef of apostasy. He goes and gives him these fifty seats. What people will forgive such a crime? What society will forgive this crime? It's a big crime and we'll see, we'll see it seen in front of us on election day, and if Mr. Mitsotakis knew he didn't have the bonus of the fifty seats, he'd take his five chairs and cooperate now to become a universal government. And the universal, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not asking her for a whim. You all feel that this is what is needed and that will be the final solution. I'll tell you why I'm asking for the universal. Because where I talk to the outside world, they tell me that an inalienable prerequisite for investment is to become a great government. The disgusting thing about polling companies is this: until the Mitsotakis Chief of New Democracy comes out, they put the question about universality. From the day Mitsotakis came out, they stopped calling it in polls. They do not ask whether the people want a large government. They stopped putting it and surely Mr. Mitsotakis has put his hand in no way as a question of this. Because he knows well and focuses on the fact that his return to power goes through the enhanced and through what happened in this Chamber three months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u144	Anyway, you should take care of this. I asked Mr Hatzinikolaou at a meeting of ours, to take a poll and ask how many people want universality, because he said that 70% of the people want universality. Once Mr Mitsotakis Chief of the New Republic ceased to be a question in the polls. On the issue of polling, if SYRIZA leaves and you have not corrected it and delivered it to the New Democracy, so that everyone can do what they want with the polls, you will have done the maximum of the crimes you of SYRIZA, i.e. if you hand over the legislation as it stands today, which one can say "three points ahead of SYRIZA" and the other say "five points ahead of New Democracy". Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to deal with this Chamber anymore. Obviously, in the circumstances that exist, our party, the Centro Association, will not vote for the budget, because it considers it to be anti-grassy, paper-making and considers that it does not have any development content. I believe that, because the solution to the country's problem is through development, no matter how much taxes we put, whatever social classes, and if we put them, if we cut the VAT out of three islands and put it on five other free professionals, this is a road to the cliff. I think we'll have elections soon. Why do I believe it? Why can a government keep, taxes and wages and pensions? How much? Tell me. Four years? But do you know what Greece will be like in four years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u146	And one last. I'm the only one, I imagine, in the soul-speaking room. On December 21, I'm going to speak here at the Constitution, at a hotel...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u147	Are you calling us, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u148	I don't think so. You, from one ear to the other, come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u149	The President of the Group of Independent Greeks Panos Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the budget and it is indeed a very special day today. Since 1993 I have been in this Chamber discussing budgets, it is the first time that opposition has been absent. Three members of the opposition during the debate on the state budget are in the Chamber. It is now clear that in this budget debate the Civic Opposition prefers to be absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u151	The Ceremony!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u152	Yeah, it's you from PASOK. You're right. And Mr. Amyras from the river. I understand that if I was opposition to your position, I'd rather be absent. Because in the budget debate this year, as usual, a comparison must be made with last year's budget debate, on what the Opposition said about what is going to happen this year, about what has been achieved by the government's work and about what will come next year to the budget that the government has submitted and the objectives we have set out. I will ask today, in the first part of my speech, for the Greek people who are very anxiously following this debate - regardless of whether the opposition ignores this debate - to consider what the budget would be if it were not the current government of Alexis Tsipras, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, and whether the Greek people had chosen to be the government, New Democracy, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Let's see, in other words, what would have been announced about the Greek people and the economy of the country in 2017. It all starts with an interview that the Vice-President of the New Democracy gave a few days ago at the radio station "SKAI" and journalist Mars Poutsalte, when he said that we would receive 100% of what Germany's Minister of Finance, Mr. Volfgang Shoeble, and the lenders. And not just that, but more. So, what are these and the more? Let's put them up a little and see what they mean for the life of the average Greek citizen? Let us see, then, what would it mean to the Greek people for 2017, if their political choice was not that government, but another government? If, then, a government was a New Democracy and PASOK government - because together they are in everything - they would vote for measures in this year's budget of more than EUR 8.8 billion, based on 4.5% of GDP surplus, for which they had committed for three years, in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That's what Mr. Samaras had signed with Mr. Venizelo. Additional pensions would have been nullified. It'd be zero! Pensioners would see at the ATM a reduction in their income of more than 50%. These were the pre-nomination of Officerial Response and PASOK in the previous government, based on what was committed to the lenders in 2017. Pensioners would not enjoy the privilege of a minimum guaranteed pension. And of course, this budget would have been blown up in the air. In other words, retired people who have been protected today, with all the efforts made by the government here to protect the minimum guaranteed pension, would have lost their pension as a whole. Unemployment, on the basis of the budgets and the signatures they had entered, would have remained stable at 26% or even increased even further, since Mr Mitsotakis was doing his word and fired 15 000 employees. Has anyone really thought of what would happen if Alexis Tsipras hadn't been to the government and if this government had not fought, as he fought, for the residence of the workers in their positions and had the view that we were sacking civil servants to satisfy the programme they had signed? They had spoken of the red loans. I want to say that if they were to follow Mr Wolfgang Soible's view, as the Vice-President of the New Democracy said, that it would apply or apply if, the non-born, popular mandate was given, it means that, as in December 2014, 80 billion euros of red loans were delivered to us, while 22 billion euros of red loans were received from the government of Costas Karamanlis, there would be a complete destruction of the market and banks, which would like new capitalisation in 2017, just what is happening today in Italy. Greece would have turned into a villa of orgasms, with Mr. Fuchtel being here, and the coral guarding of the first residence. This is where the government protected the first residence. They would have sold out nights, as usual, the red loans. "Yes to everything", this is the promise made by the Vice-President of the Civilian opposition officer on radio a few hours before the state budget begins. Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u153	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u154	What am I saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u155	Date of birth: (a) 1968, (b) 1968, (c) 1968, (d) 1968. Now it's just not the notaries. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Bourra, may I ask you something? Did you hear your party Vice President's interview?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u157	Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u158	He said he'd follow all the suggestions that Germany's Minister for Finance, Mr. Shoeble, yes or no? Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u159	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u160	That's exactly what he said. Unless there are Members of the New Democracy who do not agree with the official line of the New Democracy. However, they must express this in their current vote in the state budget. If you agree, it means that all that I describe to you, would happen or even happen if you come to power, after of course in 2019 when the elections are to take place. So let's see the past, what happened to the PSI. You've spent 140 billion euros on bonds. The truth is it's EUR 106 billion. At the same time, for this criminal PSI you borrowed 30 billion euros in order to "pay" those who participate, 5.5 billion euros for interest and 48 billion euros for the recapitalisation of the banks, after you ran away from the universities, hospitals, the equity funds, that is to say, since you effectively ran the wealth of the Greek people. It is certain that the current budget, if it were to be discussed with the political data you are announcing, would be very different today and would have the entire Greek people as victims. I now hear voices that react to the government's decision to share part of this surplus that the Greek people paid for with their blood. I ask you directly: do you object to the stay of VAT at the same level on our islands that accepted all these migratory flows? I think you're opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u161	You raised it. Now he's just suspended. It's not abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u162	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u163	You raised it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u164	Did we raise it? Let me remind you that you signed it. And not only did you sign it, but then, when the talks were taking place, you said that there is absolutely no obligation for the country to maintain the islands of less than two thousand inhabitants. You said it was a loss to these islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u165	You brought the immigrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u166	Do you object to giving this tenth third pension to pensioners under 850 euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u167	Is that a pension? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u168	Cut it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u169	If there's a surplus...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u170	Do you agree or disagree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u171	Minister, you speak, you do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, you are much younger in this House to tell me whether or not I have a dialogue. The House is the sacred place of democracy dialogue. I'm addressing the Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u173	A dialog, but not that way. Here comes the Prime Minister, they follow executives...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u174	Can you agree on the substance, Mr Bourras? Be serious. You're not with Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u175	You get serious. You're the one who's out of seriousness. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u176	Would you like me to stop, Mr. President? I ask questions whose answer the Greek people give it themselves. So the answer, ladies and gentlemen, is that, essentially, what the government has managed by means of its policy to share with the poorest is what annoys the Civic Opposition and the whole Opposition. This is a simple reason, because the Civilian Responsibility and Opposition have as their policy the implementation of not of the policy formulated by themselves, but of politics - as the Vice-President of the Civilian Responsibility Officer has confessed - which the lenders draw up. 'We will do', he says,'more to prove that the reforms have taken place'. With the victims of who? With victims of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Ministry of National Defence, which has the political responsibility, I would like to tell you that in recent years, although the budget has been reduced, as you have agreed, much more has been done than has been the case in the past. The number of hospitals in the military hospitals reached three hundred and fifty thousand civilians, either military or non-military. The number of besiegers in the military clubs from four thousand sixty-seven in the year 2012, four thousand seventy-eight in 2013, reached eighty-seven hundred and seventy-two. The Armed Forces have offered the community as a whole. I'm not talking about making cuts available in return. I'm talking about the airspace. From the year 2013 to fourteen hours of flight, with ninety-two hours in 2014, with a hundred forty-eight in 2015, we arrived at the Armed Forces offering to airplanes with a permanent helicopter located in Syros two hundred and fifty-five hours. We have managed to deal with incidents that have so far ended deadly for the Aegean islands. The disposal of airborne means in the firefighting only from the army for twelve hours and ten minutes in 2012 with Sinooks reached three hundred sixty-eight hours. It was the first year we didn't mourn victims. The availability of weapon systems with a hard reduction in the budget, reached the tanks from 88% to 94%, in helicopters from 49% to 40%, in guns from 82%, in anti-aircraft guns from 68% in 2014 to 90%, in engineer machines from 86% to 70%, in unmanned aircraft from 51% to 57%. We have succeeded with the budget and the economies, which I will explain exactly where they were done, to make homes for staff, for officers, for officers and for VDUs, from thirteen houses that took place in 2014 in ninety-nine until today, we will spend one percent by the end of time and time in two hundred homes for the officials of the Armed Forces. For 2017, hundreds of forty-seven apartments have been provided and there is positive evidence to ensure additional credit from the Public Investment Programme, but also to divest easy but not operationally necessary military equipment, which is to cover by the end of the four-year period 100% of the staff needs of the Armed Forces staff. We have moved to abolish the ruptures in the soldiers, so that we have doubled the readiness in all units of the border, in Evros and in the islands and, of course, with benefits to the soldiers. Only the coverage of prisons online, on the Internet from 0% in 2012, 2013 and 2014 has reached 50% in 2016 and in 2017 at 100%. The staff of all units exceed 60%. We had the opportunity with the savings made in the budget of the Ministry of Defence to finally give the number of days off the ground from two months in 2014, from one month in 2013 to eight months in 2015 and in 2016 to have exceeded six months. We moved on to an increase in inter-climate exercises, which reached six in 2016 from one exercise in 2012 to another in 2012. Of course, military personnel's regular relocations were completed in early June, while by 2014 they went beyond August 15th. A characteristic example of the removal of the arms and the operation of the Armed Forces on the basis of the decisions of the military leadership is that the number of alleged actions submitted by the officials - the low percentage of the appeals is judged on the basis of fair treatment of the officials - in 2016 is 2.89%. In the year 2012, we had 35.51% of appeals. In 2013, we had twenty-five. In 2014, we had thirty ones. Objections are not accepted because they are not filed, because there is a fair system in the Armed Forces. We have built the MOM by legislation. We made substantial progress in the social provision by the Armed Forces and Engineer in two hundred and twenty-five projects in 2016, from twenty-seven projects in 2013. Of course, the appropriations available for the defence organisation remain at the same level. Ladies and gentlemen, the reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for 2009-2016 is more than 52% and at absolute prices in 3.4 euros, making, among other things, the Ministry of National Defence the protagonist in the cuts. With regard to the 2017 budget, which has been tabled for vote, however, pay credits increase by 4%, compared to those of last year, by adjusting the insurance contributions in favour of the ECA and by implementing the v. Date of birth: 4387/2016. The relevant appropriations for operating expenditure show a 4% reduction, resulting from planned and fully costed actions by the General Staff and not as a result of an unrealistic cut. The appropriations for armaments show a 20% or 123m euros reduction, but are increased by 17.5m euros, compared with the ceilings for appropriations set in the medium-term budget strategy. On this point, it is crucial to note that the overall reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence does not exceed 2%, compared with 2016, always taking into account the cuts that had been made in the previous years in the order of 50%. Following cooperation between the financial services of the Ministry of National Defence with the respective services of the Ministry of Finance, the draft State Budget of 2017 was submitted to the Greek Parliament, on which the ceilings for appropriations relating to the budget of the Ministry of National Defence of 2017 are increased by approximately EUR 80 million, compared with those submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Finance and on remuneration credits. In spite of the limited appropriations and cuts in the previous years, payment of the days provided for in e.g. 293 days outside the registered office was effected in 2016, the frontier allowance. In view of this expenditure, it has been addressed within the limits for the budget of the relevant General Staff in order to continue for the following year. For 2013 and 2014, not even EUR 1 had been paid. In the field of armaments, and in a timely manner we have seen the problem of cutting credits for the following year, with the close cooperation of the Ministry of National Defence, DGCAY, with the services of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, the necessary supplies of weapon systems, particularly follow-ups on support, i.e. maintenance. It is worth noting that in previous years the absorption of the relevant appropriations ranged to 22% in 2011 and 59% in 2014. In 2015 and 2016 they reached more than 95%. I say this because basically with savings made at the Ministry of National Defence, we have not only served the needs of the officials, but also equipped our national defence with the necessary projects. We have made legislation, such as the divestment of the material, the operational but not necessary. Munitions which are not used, sold. And the proceeds of these armaments systems are given for the benefit of our personnel and for the replacement of our ammunition. We proceed to use the property of the Ministry of National Defence's funds. Those that have been sitting unexploited for 20 years have been EUR 34 billion. These properties of the Ministry of National Defence are given for farming for a hundred years, resulting in revenues in 2017 with the lowest calculations around EUR 300 million per year! I hope that after three or four years, we will reach the 500 and 600 million, which account for 1/3 substantially of the costs of the Ministry of National Defence. On the refugee issue, the participation of the Armed Forces was essential. Both for participation in NATO's operation, SNMG2, as well as for the assistance for hot spots and open hosting structures, the Ministry of National Defence charged the state budget with the costs of refugee flows, given that it was requested and received funding from the European Union alone. From the European Union's essistant funds we received EUR 88.8 million and also from the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund and from the Internal Border Security Fund. Although there was a possibility of demanding funding from the Treasury's reserves, we did not get a single euro! All the money came out of European Union subsidies and Greece came out of a white person on the issue of immigration and refugee. The absorption of European funds in the management of migration and refugee flows financed by the European Union is expected to reach the highest absorption rate to date. As regards insurance and active pension, it is noted that legislative improvements concerning the age limits and pension conditions applicable to the provisions of Law 3865/2010 and improved by the categories of military at No 4407/2016 were proposed. A transitional period was given for the military orders of provisions 4387/2016 up to 30-6-2016 covering retired cases and self-retirement. The joint actions were implemented to dismantle the share funds of the Ministry of Labour and, at the same time, amended the method of calculating the one-off military with Article 35 of Law No.4387/2016 which abolished the clause of the value-for-money applicable to the 2014 Act. And that was not arbitrary, but by reintroducing the relevant provisions of the special accounts until 31/12/2014. This proposal was based on studies and assurances from the administrations of the funds that it is sustainable, ensuring equal rights for future generations. And that was fully accepted by everyone. In addition, we have taken coordinated action for the defence industry. We have already entered into international agreements that will give our defence industry life to public, state and private. They signed companies with Egypt, Indonesia, India, with third countries and the policy of opening up defence agreements beyond NATO and the European Union, with countries of the Middle East, North Africa and regions outside NATO. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We have made progress in strengthening our defence industry, and in fact these agreements bring investments to closed factories such as the one in ELVO. We proceeded to research and technology by exploiting all our potential, including the soldiers. And as I have said, it will be a powerful power multiplier in the country. We are also making a constant effort to absorb and exploit the relevant funds. A special group has been set up at the Ministry of National Defence, which is now in a position with the managing authority to draw up programmes at around 85%, the highest percentage that has been achieved so far! Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are living at a time when political confrontation is very acute. However, I would like to ask all colleagues and colleagues on the issue of the Ministry of National Defence to return to a time when the Greek Parliament during the budget debate voted unanimously in favour of the budget in the field of National Defence. National defence is not the object of controversy, it is the object of a national policy. I assure you all, both the government and the ruling parties, but also the opposition, that the will of the Ministry of National Defence is that this policy should be taken together. We accepted almost all the amendments tabled by the opposition during the debate on the bills. That is the line that we will follow in the future. It is time, then, for all of us together to send a message from the Greek Parliament and today in the debate on the state budget that we may have political conflicts of acute importance, but national defence is a place of understanding for all of us. I see in the last few days there has been a harsh criticism, a criticism that has to do with the visit that we have planned and have all agreed to in the Committee on Foreign and Security in the House for the meeting in Kastelorizo. I would like to clarify two things because there should be no such misunderstandings about the defence issue. I contacted the Chief of Officerial Response and asked him for this visit to participate in the Civic Response. In his honour, the President of the New Democracy told me that if it is not an official meeting he would consider the participation of Members of the New Democracy. That is why this mission was organised, announced and actually carried out. I was very sorry to hear from the New Democracy Department, Mr Kumoutsako, last day that the Civic Opposition will not take part. This was announced to me at the feast of St. Barbara, that is, on the previous day of the mission. The reason was that the National Foreign Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not meet. I explained that this has nothing to do with the State Department. The Ministry of National Defence, whenever requested by the Civic Response and whenever requested, will make full information to all members of the Greek Parliament. So we led to this mission that could not be cancelled, because it was a mission, which, if cancelled, would have other national consequences and, of course, with an artificial political offside, some have chosen to put in front of the participants rather than the mission. I would like to assure you - and you, Mr President of the Vice-President - that there is no intention of the Ministry of National Defence to make sidelines or manifestations of impression. We have every political will to have a national line in national defence. We will do so with all our powers and, if you like, at a bad time when we did not coexist on this mission, we can correct it with future action. As far as the communications I have on the side of the counter-population are concerned, I would like to remind you that these communications, which have been made and the answers to Turkey, are not communications that have to do with foreign policy. It is about Turkey's provocation. When sixteen Greek islands are questioned, when Members of the ruling party of Turkey come out and say that they will download the Greek flags from the Greek islands, when the Prime Minister of Turkey speaks about the abolition of the Treaty of Lausanne, is there not to be an answer? Should there not be an answer, which should be clear? And I address the PASOK colleagues. What would Andreas Papandreou do if it were Turkey's provocative attitude?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u177	He was a prime minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u178	I would remind you that before he said this famous "Put the Hora" and Gerasimos Arsenis and the late Yiannis Charalambopoulou had made such moves. There was then a visit to Kastelorizo by the Committee on National Defence, which took the lead in PASOK itself. So leave the field of National Defence and I'm honestly speaking, Mr. Loverdos. I think we can find other places where we can be confronted. I want to tell you the sincere will of the Department of National Defence to have a national line. This is what all of you can contribute to. Let's leave the national defense outside. As far as other opposition parties coming out and making statements are concerned, the best they could do is come to answer the courts, when we sue them, because their organs report the same things they say themselves, and they do not go away, running from the courts and repeat such statements. However, we declare that the tradition of Mr. Yannis Papantoniou, whom you served, is not going to follow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Kavalas General School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, dear friends. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, the provocativeness of some people requires some answers. To be honest, I was expecting Mr Kammenos today to bathe and say nothing about this trip to Kastelorizo and to Ros, not to mention anything about the Golden Eating with the ANELs and the MPs of SYRIZA - a page that we should forget. So instead of making sure that the House understands that it has regretted this move, it insists on enthusiasm for the excursion - I repeat - and for the photographs that were taken in Kastelorizo with golden MPs, with MPs from SYRIZA and ANELs. Even SYRIZA officials' comments didn't make him understand his big mistake. We therefore say that there is room for a national line, for a patriotic line. Our proposal is one: there should be a National Security Council, as it exists in almost all normal countries. And there, at the initiative of the Prime Minister, of course, the Heads of the Parties, the former Prime Ministers, the Foreign and Defence Ministers, the leadership of the army, the leadership of the Security Services to discuss national issues. We have proposed it, there is a large part of the counter-population that accepts it, and I think that at the moment we have these risks in national matters, the government majority should leave the line that it erroneously set up in the previous period and go to a patriotic line, such as the National Security Council. But let me go to what is planned to discuss, the budget. To start with the infinite Christmas fairy tale of the government majority. The economy's going well, money's running over and retired people can get in line to start collecting it. Of course, after the holidays, we'll get them back. I think, gentlemen of the government, that you should escape the notion that politicians are something like Santa Claus. The site needs a plan and priorities. And I ask: on what criteria do you share this money? If your criterion is pain and poverty, money is also owed to the private sector's unemployed, to the private sector's ruined, to the long-term unemployed, who have absolutely no social protection and will make Christmas without a single euro in the house, to those who do not come back to look, gentlemen of the Couple. But where are the taxes money going? It is an eternal question in this country. We read your budget and find that the money doesn't go to the unemployed, the money doesn't go to the poor. Greece has the highest unemployment in Europe, but it gives the fewest for the unemployed and employment support. We have the highest number of people in Europe living or moving to the limits of poverty, which is 36%. We introduced last - pilots - the minimum guaranteed income in 2014. The first Tsipra government has abolished it. We're last on health expenditure. The situation in hospitals is hopeless, but we continue to spend the least money on the Eurozone for health. Money does not go to family support, support for young couples, support for families, support for multiple families. In 2008 we had a hundred and eighteen thousand births and in 2014 only ninety-two thousand births, that is, we are the oldest society, the last in births in the European Union. At the same time, we are in the past for family support expenditure. Money doesn't go to the new generation either. Money's going mostly - and we know it - to the client's state. That's how it was, that's how it's done. Expenditure on general services in Greece is more than twice as high as Europe's average. You have doubled the secretariats in the Ministries, and now we have a hundred fifty-one secretaries, general, special, sectoral and substitutes. One hundred and fifty! The report of the State General Accounting Office accompanying the bill - the one with the cutter - and we had to make another seventy five secretaries did not cost. But by doing a simple mathematical act, a multiplier, with the secretary's salary of around EUR 4,000 grossly, it appears that we will only have an additional cost for the persons who will enter the secretaries EUR 3.5 million per year. You also built a Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki. Why not Heraklion? Why not Kalamata? The chief will pay 2,500 euros a month, plus four other posters, plus twenty three policemen who will leave Thessaloniki and go to keep an empty office, plus 1,000 euros, that is. It is what they are saying 'bean beans come up'. The Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace what will it do? By the way, I sought the Ministry's action on the official website. The last development initiative of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace was in 2007. Of course we have the recruitments of post-mortem employees who break one record after another. Only the fugitives of the Great Maximus cost 2,000,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, if state waste is reduced by 3%, i.e. if 49% of expenditure fell to 46%, no tax increase would be necessary. Since 2009, however, taxes have been growing, although the economy is in recession and the citizens have no money to pay. We're champions in corporate taxes too. Greece is the only OECD country that increased the corporate tax rates in 2015. We have high costs of insurance contributions, bureaucracy and, of course, expensive money and scarce money from the banks. In the years of the crisis VAT came from 18% to 24% and is the largest VAT in the Eurozone. Of course, we are taxing, and in what is moving, so that we are the first in the Eurozone and in the indirect taxes. I hope it records the realms. The first assessment account is an increase in taxes and contributions and a reduction of only 400 million. Only in 2016, SYRIZA increased the state's spending by 1.7% and now sends the account to the private sector. According to your budget, the state will collect or try to collect plus 2.6 billion more taxes in 2017. Watch out. You set up a hundred and twenty new structures according to the last twenty-four laws. In eighty-six of these hundred twenty structures you do not even predict an exact number of personnel, obviously so that the government can hire it to do so. In other words, you are creating conditions for new deficits by gauging the client state. Last example revealed. The company "KITIRIKES INVESTMENTS S.A.", KICYP as most of them know it, hired two hundred and twenty employees in the middle of a crisis to add them to the three hundred, that is, an increase of staff of about 66%. But be careful. In 2016, the CBC launched only two competitions, which is why it may also need to double the number of employees. We are lucky that he did not have three contests, because then we should have three times as many staff. Only fifty-five of the hundred eighteen laws, which you have passed, are accompanied by a cost assessment by the General Accounting Office of the State. In most cases, however, the General Accounting Office of the State is only sufficient to establish that there is a cost, but that cannot be calculated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a challenge for science that the government's budget is, because you are looking forward to increasing tax revenue by EUR 2.6 billion, as we have said, and at the same time you predict that the economy will grow by 2.7%, that is, increasing taxation and you think growth will continue undisturbed. And that is really worthy of scientific study. What should we do in our assessment and I think in the assessment of a large part of productive, creative Greece? We should reduce taxes in this budget, even symbolically, so as to mark the turn of the state in favour of entrepreneurship, in favour of investment. We should strengthen the citizens who are victims of the crisis, the heroes, in particular, of the private sector, who have been treated in recent years as children of a lower god. And as the third priority of this budget it should have been to strengthen investment costs. The development law, however, provides for only 430 million for the entire five-year period, money that reaches is not enough for a major investment. And I do not know whether you have noticed this, but with the new law, Law No.4412, a law which re-establishes the award of works and supplies of goods and property by the public, a law prepared for a year, a law passed in August, today, four months later, nothing has been done, no work has been done and the results are that we will no longer be in danger of losing the sums from the current NSRP. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said so many times in the House and we are constantly saying that we need to reduce the party client state. We must make life difficult - and I think that we will all agree here - on tax-government and tax-government, to block fraud. Today in Greek society there is a war between those who pay and those who do not pay. There are some - the suckler cows - who pay taxes, loans, contributions and some who escape, do not pay their loans or require more and more favourable provisions. And that regardless of their family property. I'll explain what I mean next. If there are no clear rules at the same time as patriotism, I think we have no future as a country. This also concerns some businesses, especially those based on public benefits, namely the party state and corruption, and some other businesses, who have embraced the doctrine: 'Profit outside and our debts and your own debts'! If this perception does not change, I fear that soon the country will become a "invested" country, because no foreigner goes to a state where local investors are leaving. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to establish - and we will be tabling a specific proposal next time - a unique individual public beneficiary code. Even today, many public wages - wages, allowances, allowances - come from different channels, and control is prevented. At the same time, there must be a family payroll conference, so that we do not have individual poor people, who receive allowances or have alleviations, while they have a rich family next to them. I mention the red loans attributes. Fraud technology has expanded so much that members of wealthy families appear as individual borrowers in order to obtain beneficial provisions. To establish a family code, which will allow, in addition to all others - to go to some timely events - when someone gets caught destroying public property, the account to go to his family - is a legislation in England, Cameron, 2012 - because I think hooliganism on the ground, in the neighborhoods and universities has to end. Those who destroy - and I don't know if you see the evidence from time to time given by the police - are children many times in the north and south suburbs rather than in the west. They are eaten by boredom at home and something must be done in the city or in the countryside or in the neighborhoods. So they should know that they will be called to pay the bill. I do not really understand why in Greece of the crisis, in Greece of the fall, the burnt trolleye pays for the wardrobe, the seller, those who work, that is, in the private sector, and not the family of the one who burned it. But we were talking about the budget. I'll go back to the big picture. We must abolish - and we propose this - the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the secret funds of the Ministry of National Defence and, of course, the Parliament's budget to go to the Ministry of Finance, as is the case with all the ministries. And self-government should be done - and that would be a bold change - in budgetary terms, having its taxes, having and controlling its expenditure. The problem of the country, ladies and gentlemen, is the great disinvestment today. This has devastated the country. Approximately +10% of GDP, which we had real new investments in the past, today we have gone to -7% of GDP. If we do not come back to a time of investment, then all the rest that we are discussing will have no effect. The problem for investors is obviously taxation and insurance contributions. But, I think an additional element that prevents investment and is easy to deal with is the great convenience with which we change the rules of the game in Greece. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] With a night's amendment, which no one can understand, everything can change. Also, with a ministerial decision that no one noticed, the terms of the game may change. It is therefore very important that we enter a stability regime if we want to have investments. Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence says that black work in this country is constantly growing and for the first time this summer part-time workers have exceeded the number of full-time workers. The government's budget provides for tax revenues from companies reduced by 7%, although tax rates are increasing. What does that mean? It is a assumption that companies will continue to close, they will continue to reduce their profits, they will continue to be loss-making. The Greek economy is in the respirator and I think that with the communication delays of the negotiations you have not guaranteed the constant supply of oxygen from the Greek economy. The Parliamentary Budget Office says about budget expenditure: 'The expenditure, as a percentage of GDP, is to be classified as the highest in the Eurozone. Only in Finland and France the percentage is higher.’ So let me ask again the question, which is the big question, which should be answered not only by Parliament, but by the country and by the citizens: will we continue to maintain bodies - ghosts, counterproductive WTOs, armies of poster and consultants, office rents, when the public property is devastated or reduced? That's the dilemma. Third way, there is no road, it has not been invented. A country's budget, ladies and gentlemen, must be balanced between its debts yesterday, its needs today and tomorrow's perspective. We need to change priorities. We will say this once again that we need to reduce state waste, hit corruption and tax evasion, and also give money for tomorrow and not for the party and client state, not for the party armies and the guilds. Unfortunately, as shown by the works of this government, I do not see many people willing in this Chamber for this great turn. We will, however, insist, because I think we can change everything without tearing down the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much to the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis. Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group and Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you've got a big prick! Neither stops anything from you nor saves anything, neither Castro nor Panagios Tomb nor "take it, give it" with the Americans, Obama and Netanyahu, the Israelis recently. You're out now, and the South, the South's leaders, Rencie, Olad. They don't save you the night proclamations, to give some crumbs of the "blooded" surpluses our people have created with your policy, unless you consider that you will be rescued by the trips with the ANELs and the Chrysayites - all together - in Kastelorizo. There are no more words to express the disgrace of this policy. We said here, from this Step and sometimes that you became better than your teachers in deceiving the Greek people, but we never imagined that within less than two years you would get a degree! Ladies and gentlemen, both the statement of this year's budget and the government's policy in previous years, as well as the recent agreement at Eurogroup, leave no room for fraudulents to open up a way to alleviate and recover the losses of our people in the near future. The government is resolutely promoting new blows to the income and rights of the people in order to regain the profits of capital. And the Civic Opposition calls, in essence, for it to step up in the same anti-population direction. This harsh reality will ultimately not be able to hide it from any propaganda efforts by the government, the system, however inventive it may be. We also call on the workers, the workers and the people not to compromise with this path which leads them to permanent insecurity, hard exploitation, impoverishment, not to compromise with their hunger wages, with the permanent unemployment of young people, with the humiliation of pensioners, with the odyssey of self-employed professionals, to climb up and organise their counter-response, to demand that they live with dignity, to demand that their needs be met and not just to survive. Of course, the government will continue its efforts to show the black white to cover up the escalation of the attack on the people. In this area it is really uneasy. As long as it was opposition, we heard about the dungeon that the markets are going to hit and dance at their pace. Then they presented that Utopian plan of philosophical change within the European Union, which would very much promote with the social democratic governments of Rencie in Italy, Holland in France, with the support of the United States. Now that their political friends in the European Union are forced after each other to resign after they have killed their own peoples, the Prime Minister continues his story of the coming fair development. It calls on us to accept as we have lost, to make new temporary sacrifices and to expect future benefits from the return of the profits of the monopolistic groups and from the renegotiation of the conditions for repayment of the State debt. There's no bigger lie. The recovery of capital gains requires an increase in the degree of exploitation, to expand and to increase the loss of workers, to increase the gap between productivity and wage levels. That is why, despite their differences, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the ruling class in our country, the BSE, the government, the other urban parties, are creating a single block, in the final analysis, in order to pass these anti-grassroots restructuring measures and the measures that actually bring about rights. That is why the real opponent of our people is not only the quartet of lenders, but also the civil order of the country, which both the SYRIZA Government and the Civic Opposition are serving. That is why there is no waiting or tolerance to the specific policy of the Tsipras-Kammeni Government. The attack on capital will naturally not stop with the possible temporary, anaemic exit from this phase of the capitalist crisis. The aggression of capital will continue, urban staff increasingly put people in the sight, as the international capitalist economy is on a slowdown course and no imperialist center can today function as the steam engine for increasing its growth rate. The many funds that cannot be invested at a satisfactory rate of profit are their great headache. The difficulty of a controlled depreciation of this overcompensated capital tortures the political system in the various capitalist states. It is not a simple and easy case, for example, to bankrupt states and international banking groups. Without this depreciation, however, the destruction of overcompensated capital, there are no conditions for even a stable growth in the medium term. This cannot be done easily, spontaneously through the operation of simply the capitalist market. The competition of individual funds, of different states, of different imperialist alliances does not allow a commonly accepted solution to be found. That's why we see them fight like dogs and even worse. So these contradictions are exacerbating between the various imperialist centres and increasing the risk of generalised war conflicts, which we have repeatedly said as a party here from this House and publicly in other cases. We are particularly concerned about developments in our neighbourhood, with the plans, with the competitions of the strong to strengthen and bring closer to the risk of even a more general military ignition. The government has heavy responsibilities because it encroaches on our country even more deeply on dangerous bourgeoisie, in the designs of NATO, the United States of America, the European Union, which is responsible for the wars and for the uprooted, refugees and the reunification of borders, but also the undermining of the provocativeness, the aggression of Turkey, which has come to state that it does not recognise the Greekity, says, eighteen Aegean islands, to challenge the international treaty of Lausanne, to speak openly about "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus", at the same time as it is pushing rapidly and forcefully pushing a new divisional plan for the Cyprus problem, which radically alters the substance of the problem as a problem of invasion and occupation. Ladies and gentlemen, under the burden of these contradictions, the deadlocks of the farm system, which all other parties are defending with nails and teeth, also strengthens urban nationalism, which promotes protectionism in the economy, the review of international agreements, both in the United States of America and in France, in Italy, in other European countries. It is not polite, it is antisystemic, but it is politicians who are trying to shield capital in their own country, in the tough international competition, which is exacerbated anyway. They serve, like liberal cosmopolitan politicians, the same god, the power of capital, but in a different way. The people must not be caught in the conflict between these two streams, which only concerns the interest of the camp of the monopolistic groups. The policy of today's social-democratic and liberal governments is not only stirring up, but in fact it is helping to strengthen nationalist, fascist current across Europe. In any case, monopolistic groups will never call on the workers to return their losses once they have recovered their profits. They will continue to require new sacrifices to enhance their competitiveness. The government's statements on the need to put an end to the austerity, he says, do not concern any substantial relief for workers, but concern directly and indirectly the State strengthening of the profitability of capital. Even if excessive requirements for annual primary surpluses are reduced, from 3.5% to 2%, the anti-grass attack will continue, with the speeding up of the programmes which consolidate the employment status of the jungle, with no rights for employees and other self-employed persons. Also, if there is eventually a small recovery, from 2017 onwards, the return to the pre-crisis level of the Greek economy requires more than 10 years of continuous growth at a rate of more than 2%, i.e. an extremely unlikely possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the predictions for the coming years and see what the harsh reality teaches. Who has been strengthened and who has been hard hit all these years? Let us see how the radical, supposedly, proclamations of SYRIZA were translated into life, which would lead to a philosophical capitalism. What have you been doing these two years, Mr. Tsipras? You have consistently implemented all the objectives set out in the Memorandums on budgetary consolidation, in the context of the Eurozone's general strategic options for the need for budgetary discipline. Follow a line that is not only an option of the "quartet", but also of the country's domestic urban order, since the achievement of budgetary surpluses guarantees the ability of the urban state to finance this capitalist development. This funding also serves your infamous spending cut-off, which leaves to the unavoidable the costs of financing construction groups through the Public Investment Programme and other costs, for purchases by the groups and, at the same time, provides for a permanent check-up of wages, pensions, expenses, whenever the state budget needs money. You claim without any sign of shame that your tax system becomes more fair. You are saying this at the time when you have even reduced the tax-free limit to EUR 8,600 and tax even the one who receives EUR 700 a month. With the returning increases in VAT and other indirect taxes, you suck the blood of the people, charging more than 1,000 euros a year for every people’s family. You will stay in history, Mr. Tsipras, along with Mr. Katrugalo as the true municipalities of the insurance system. Not only did you accept all the reinsurance reforms of the previous governments, but you did and did what they did not dare, what the previous ones could not. You brought the full return function and unleash any redistributive character left in the insurance system. Your counter-reformation, the law - "loud" will not be forgotten. Your changes have been understood by all the pensioners who have seen their pensions fall continuously. We recognize, however, that you and your ministers, when you were mocking pensioners, telling them that pensions are not being reduced, playing with words between main and supplementary pensions. Your reform is drastically reducing the pensions of all those who have not yet come to pension, while the gradual abolition of individual disparity will also be faced by today's pensioners with great losses. Retired people, of course, know that very well, which is why they are protesting. You, however, did not hesitate to send your praetorians to hit even their fathers, showing what the focus in practice is "the first time left". Of course, retired people are not going to give you any forgiveness, any proclamations of election, propaganda or anything else you're doing. The tricks of deceiving have learned them all out and out! Ladies and gentlemen, insurance and taxation are literally drowning the self-employed. They're pushing them into unemployment. Taking into account VAT, income tax, insurance contributions and its fixed assets, a self-employed person should make an annual turnover of nearly EUR 60,000 to keep him in the pocket of EUR 1,000 a month, without gifts. The same objective is served by your property tax policy. You have blood on the people's families with HISPIA and at the same time, big businesses pay crumbs for the properties. Your goal is to promote mass property change, to give large groups the homes and land of popular families for a piece of bread. And you promote this in a thousand or two ways. You tax the people's roof and you take it out to the hammer for example, homes of people who cannot pay the huge debts to which your system forced them. You proceeded with the sale of the red loans to those funds that were only a few months ago called'markethews'. The most clear example that reveals your real character is privatisation. Before the elections, you accused Mr. Samaras of selling the country. You raised fire reasons, characterizing the water as a social good and as a crime the investment projects in the Greek. It was your government that proceeded, however, as your new Minister for Finance said a few days ago, from the HSY step - if we understood his spasm well - the biggest privatisation program in the world. That's exactly how he said, the biggest privatisation program that is being done worldwide, in Greece by your Government! You proceeded with the separation of PPC from IPTO, which is a Community direction and demand from other private groups in this sector, to ensure relatively equal conditions for competition and to establish the electricity auctions, allowing monopolistic groups active in the liberated energy to buy cheap from PPC and sell expensive. And you have the courage to show this as a resistance to privatization policy. You are essentially implementing the line that is being promoted throughout the European Union, in order to promote liberalisation and in full alignment of the functioning of state-owned enterprises, with a view to greater profitability, without excluding any direct privatisation of them. You call on the ambitious new investors to rent for ninety-eight years from the state, investing much less capital. You're not protecting any public interest. With what you do, you only protect the pockets and profits of monopolistic groups. You claim that all this is to gain debt relief, that it is a place-to-place sacrifice. Your claim is unstable. The measures taken by you and all the previous ones are paving the way for the profitability of large capital. That's why they're taken everywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, you are attempting to show debt reduction as a nationwide target. But what, really, will the employee, the young man, the student, the poor farmer, the self-employed professional craftsman, even if the debt is reduced? Will wages, pensions, income, social benefits increase? For all of these, the reduction in debt means an unstoppable continuation of the same policy. It means new measures, cutters and restrictions. It means a life of misery for those who wait and as long as they wait for you to solve the problems. The only winners are your friends who praise you, the big shareholders, the industrialists, the bankers, the shipowners, the big traders, who will see the hottest money for their investments. Even more deceptive is the claim that the worst has passed and better days are coming. The State Budget for 2017 is a tool for new bleeding the people for the benefit of capital. The financial interventions for 2017 of EUR 4.101 million for fiscal consolidation are revealing who will pay, who will bleed for these primary surpluses. Of these, about 3m euros will come from tax revenue increases, so that natural persons pay 14.5% more taxes than in 2016. But also indirect taxes, taxes on consumers, which are particularly burdensome of people's incomes, will increase by 5.3% compared with 2016. And in order not to have any doubt about who pays the broken-up crisis, tax revenues from businesses will be reduced by 7% compared to 2016. But the bill doesn't stop here. People's strata will pay a few million euros more in compensation to the municipalities, in order to further reduce funding to them, a funding that, in essence, if we exclude payroll and transfer costs, reaches 400 million euros to cover their operating needs, the costs of three hundred and twenty-five municipalities and the thirteen regions of the country. But we've got to keep going. In order to increase social security contributions, as well as the Katrugalou Act, workers will pay EUR 928 million more and at the same time reduce pensions by EUR 717 million, with the EUR 375 million related to new reductions in supplementary pensions, while low pensioners will be the major victims for another year, since the gradual abolition of the EKT in 2017 will take even greater proportions by removing EUR 586 million. The government is using maintenance of some state health budget funds - welfare at last year's levels to convince that this is supposed to lead to a reversal of the bad situation. This consolidation of the funds, when the needs are growing sharply, when the state of operation of public hospitals is already explosive, essentially marks the consolidation of the current unacceptable and dangerous regime of enormous shortages in personnel, equipment, medicines, consumables, the incorporation of the work of health workers, doctors, nurses and others. The Government, taking the baton out of the above, speeds up the pace of the implementation of the measures so that public hospitals are fully adapted to the commercialisation of their services and to the rules of business activity. Ladies and gentlemen, his capital and government are preparing a nightmare agenda for the next day. They show as a one-way the constant slap of the people and ask workers to put their backs on, accept their execution. We are addressing all private and public employees, the self-employed, the unemployed, the retired. All of us can bring our own agenda to the fore, our demand that our modern needs be met. We can and must organise the racing response, change the correlations in every sector, in every place of work, in every neighborhood, in every city and village. Things would be much worse if there were no resistance, the reaction of pioneering, class forces fighting with the KIC in the front line all these years. The way to satisfy our needs can only be opened if we aim properly. Today, it is not enough to resist only the new reactionary changes that the government is preparing. The counter-attack means that we demand decisively that we pay the big capital to make up for the major popular losses. The counterattack means escalating the struggles to overthrow government policy, preparing for decisive conflicts. At this critical juncture each employee, every worker, every self-employed, professionalist, merchant, every bio-populist farmer, who chooses this street, the race to the ruling class, can make a difference. Every successful strike, every step in the reconstructing of the labour movement is a blow to the heart of these measures of this system, it is a step to break the climate of in vain philosophical solution from aspiring liars, supposedly saviors and from the bazaars between representatives and Greek and German and French and American capital. All the developments mentioned above lead to a basic conclusion: a radical change of course is needed in order to increase and properly direct domestic agricultural and industrial production to meet people's needs, in order to exploit rich domestic energy sources for the benefit of society as a whole. In order to get out of the current swamp of the construction crisis, in the shipbuilding industry, we need to break the capitalist profit, i.e. the continuous redemption of workers as a starting point for the development of the Greek economy. The working class must take the keys to power, to the economy, so that there can be scientific, central planning of the economy, production, based on popular needs. Of course, this difficult effort is not a single-acting work. The outcome of this great struggle is judged on the battles we are fighting today and on the even tougher ones that we will need to give tomorrow. However, there is no other easy way for the people to be redeemed from their suffering. The KEI's vote in this anti-grass budget is a large and narrow "no", a "no" that should sound like a warning bell, not just in this Chamber but be heard as a bell across Greece, signalling an awakening of the folk, the labor movement in an alliance of all the social forces of overthrow, with great struggles of lasting duration. Only then can there be hope, there can be a way out for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuba. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Kavalas (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On this occasion, I would like to say that, because there are many people who have seen us, when we say 'explained themselves in the report of the Chamber 'VENIZELOS' every time, it is a different report. For a few days now, an excellent report has been launched with very important documentaries that have also come from Russia for Kapodistria, which were not even in our historical knowledge, which we will have to find the opportunity for the next few months to visit. I say this publicly, because - we know that - they are made by the Foundation of such visits, etc. I would ask Mrs Fotini Genomemata, President of the Democratic Group - DIMAR, to come to Step and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I hope that he will hear us from his office, according to his usual practice he is not in the Chamber - we are tired of hearing you talk about supposedly cruel negotiations. Return every time to Greece, to the House, like Sinvah the Sea, and tell us supposedly battles and achievements for the hope he comes, for today that is better than yesterday, for the smile he returns. Really, who? You dressed a left rebel in Fidel's eulogy, and the lenders became strong. But once you've returned, your protagonists have become again. How many more roles are you going to play, Mr. Tsipras? So listen. Hurry up, because in addition to the time it's running out, the costumes are over, the variation costumes in your co-pilot's bench and he can't watch you. But all this delusion becomes outrageous when we come here to discuss all the things you bring us as a 2017 budget. And I say'san', because this is not a budget. Finally, it's a defeat statement. It's a bitter two-year-old diary. You're celebrating, too. Did the growth air blow and we didn't feel it? Didn't you cut the debt and we didn't get it? Has the country been filled or has this plan been abandoned? You tore the memorials, and didn't "AUGY" write it down for everyone to find out? None of this happened. Unfortunately, absolutely nothing! So what's with the triumphs? What's the big Eurogroup celebration for? It's a two-stage failure. You took the worst for the country that the International Monetary Fund was asking for and the worst for the country that Europeans asked for. You have taken a restructuring that will yield to the Greeks after twenty-four years and a target for primary surpluses of 3.5% which is quite simply impossible to achieve. You've chained the country, Prime Minister. That's the truth and leave the festivities! But, of course, the International Monetary Fund also finds a fig sheet so that Mr Shoeble returns to the programme and the Europeans are nourished not only until the German elections which had been in their minds, but for several years. You served them well! In fact, thanks to your very successful negotiation, we have two memorandums at our doorstep, the "III Plus" Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund and, since they all win - and the budget confirms - that the country will be late to come out on the markets, there is also the "Memorandum IV" that comes for after 2018. The only question left unanswered by this time is who will sign it. Our home country once again pays dearly the fact that there is no national consensus and national strategy. What was built with reforms in the crisis, whatever shape of hope went to open with many difficulties and great sacrifices, all became smoke, because SYRIZA had to change Europe! And at the heart of the Greek people, the middle class facing equality, poverty, with constant measures, with recession, taxes and unemployment. The families who are watching us on TV today, I'm sure they would expect from all of us, together, to give them a real hope. Instead, in the same spectators' work: Creative ambiguity, bridge program, game theory, threats to election and disposable benefits. We will not keep the same miserable attitude that Mr Tsipras held in previous years - I would remind you that dividends have been paid in 2014 - because we fully understand that our fellow citizens, whom this measure is concerned, have an absolute need even for that money, even for once. However, do not lead us on top, Prime Minister, and you are talking about a tenth pension, because you are listening well: the thirteenth pension is a permanent measure, it is not a cut-off and it is not a one-off one. And, much more, to talk about the thirteenth pension, you should have given them the twelfth, but you've also taken it. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The Greeks paid for these measures very much. You took 7.2 billion euros from the Greek pocket with your memorandum in the two years. Low pensioners paid for losing the ESS. They paid indirect taxes. They paid an increase in health pension contributions. But there is another very big issue here. The surplus of EUR 1.1 billion, which is above the target, is not due to growth but to the over-taxation of Greek citizens. Every euro that comes into public funds is a price of hard sacrifices and comes from all these people in Greece, who, in persuasiveness, are trying to keep their businesses open. These citizens have unjustifiedly paid an extra 1.1 billion euros. And you're returning to some of these 617 million euros. And the unemployed, the disabled and other vulnerable categories of the population are left outside. That's a great success, Mr. Tsipras! Congratulations! Colpo grosso! Only you should know that now the Greek people know you very well. You've all been figured out. You can't fool anyone anymore. And whatever you declare, you are finished in the consciousness of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I come now to the raw reality. Come and talk about everything. Let us start with national issues. The truth is that the Greek Government simply cannot stand up against the Turkish challenges. The Turkish President must know that Greece will not retreat before its other threats. With wisdom, yes, and sobering, we must defend our dignity and our rights, but the Greek Government must finally understand that its role is not just to issue communications. We therefore call on the Government once again to stop this long attitude and to call for the European Union's mutual assistance clause to be activated in order to protect Greek interests and also to put our European partners before their responsibilities. Let me say one more thing. We must stand alongside the Republic of Cyprus and the decisive phase in which it has entered, in the talks that are taking place to resolve the Cyprus problem, on the basis of always the principle: Nicosia decides and Greece supports it. With a view to a fair and sustainable solution based on UN decisions and principles and on the European acquis. Point two, and particularly critical, is the refugee. There the government has truly lifted its hands up. The European Union and Turkey agreement seems to be an observer, as if it is a third executive, without the right of opinion and vote. You have an obligation to claim that European partners implement their commitments to the country. The government creates and maintains risks for both refugees and local communities. The islands of the eastern Aegean - and also the Dodecanese - are actually on the front line of this whole case, despite the fact that they have shown incredible solidarity all this time. In fact, they've crossed the limits of their capabilities. And at least, at least at the last hour, you heard us because some people said that we raised VAT on the islands. But what other lie are we finally gonna hear? We are the ones who established it, we have protected it within the crisis, we have told you not to accept it. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You suggested it. I went to Chios and suggested that there should be a suspension as a compensatory measure for what is currently going on in our islands. Our Members have tabled a question on this at the end of November. And finally, even now you've heard us. It's not too late, it's never too late. We all remember, Prime Minister, that the Greek request, as emerged from the meeting of the political leaders, was that the Dublin Regulation should be revised, even in transitional terms. Instead, you are now celebrating why we will be returned from March 2017 to all refugees passing by Greece. This is not a good news. It is news that is concerned and frightened by the dimensions of the refugee - immigration all this time. Third point: the government has abandoned not only its election commitments to cut down on disgraceful and burdensome debt but also on Mr Tsipras' grandeurs for the debt summit. Let me remind him that, as a Memorandum of Understanding now, on 30-7-2015, he stressed that the only way to make the debt viable is to get tired by 30% and give a 20-year grace period. So the government completely abandoned not only its own commitments and declarations, but also the opportunity offered by the 2012 Eurogroup decision for a credible and sustainable debt reduction to 110% of GDP in 2022. Of course, it has also given European bankers 6 billion of the profits of Greek bonds. You have accepted in a few words that Mr Siomple should continue his unacceptable tactics and create the conditions for leading the Greek people and the economy of Greece to new adventures. That's what you did, Mr. Tsipras. And now everyone understands what PASOK achieved in previous years, the great and important write-down for the country of government debt that took place in February 2012. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] An effort started in 2011 and led to a nominal net debt reduction in February 2012 by EUR 106 billion, i.e. around 52% of GDP. That's what we did, and you went through it. Fourth truth: this second assessment is still without a plan and without substantial intervention from the government, which once again proves weak and incapable of negotiating. The government is now saying that they will not accept any new measures, it says, after 2018. But you have already accepted them by the Eurogroup decision. It's obvious. And we are talking about many billions of meters until at least 2020. They've accepted the newly reinforced and permanent cutter now. After the permanent comitology, after the concession of the public wealth to the lenders for a century, the newly reinforced and permanent cutter comes. And their agony all know who it is? To blur the waters and not to capture exactly the measures that will be taken so that once again they can deceive Greek citizens. Because we are talking about permanent tough measures, such as pension reductions, tax reductions and an increase in indirect taxes. I also ask the government directly and I call on the Prime Minister to answer whether, as we know, he intends to agree, in the context of the second assessment, to increase the level of collective redundancies and to restore employers' compensation in a direct or indirect way, to the total abolition of the CSCE, to a large reduction in the heating allowance, to abolish or to limit the tax exemption for medical expenses, to abolish or to limit the child benefit of about eight hundred thousands of third families, to reduce the student allowance for the children of poor families and to abolish the special tax regime for our seafarers. We're waiting for answers, gentlemen of the government. Point 5: The truth is that in the real economy the situation is getting worse every day. Citizens' debts are almost EUR 95 billion. The market is, in fact, plagued by padlocks. 26% of Athens' stores downloaded rolls. Private consumption decreased by EUR 5,5 billion. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] What, then, and what investments is the government talking about with this unbearable tax? And what motive will one come to invest his money when he sees what happens with customer relations, with interventions in justice, undermining reforms, with banning contributions to the insurance for all honest taxpayers? Even if they gave us brave measures on the debt, the inability of the government and its inability to trigger growth constantly acts as a banner to get the country out of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, in these circumstances, the 2017 budget comes for discussion, the budget that is, unfortunately, the final act of attack on the middle class and anyone who still produces in this place. Firstly, the new taxes in 2017 amount to EUR 2,45 billion and the main are indirect taxes charged by Greek households, especially the less privileged. It is characteristic that the relationship between direct and indirect taxation is getting worse all the time. In short, taxation becomes more socially unfair. Secondly, the social spending cuts reach 1.83 billion euros. Of these, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 1.6 billion concerns social security, including private sector pensions, public sector, widow's pensions and increases in the contributions of farmers and free traders. I wonder, in fact, what will happen with farmers, free professionals and scientists, who will be faced with exterminating increases in contributions, especially those who declare their incomes? Basically, the government comes with its arrangements to create a strong incentive to tax evasion and tax evasion with a visible risk of blowing the insurance funds into the air. Thirdly, the government takes from the poor to give the even poorest. It's abolishing the ESS. He's putting on new taxes. It abolishes tax exemptions from sensitive social groups to give two years' delay to the guaranteed social income, which we told them from the outset they had to do. It was a policy that we started with Vassilis Kegeroglou at the Ministry and, unfortunately, for two years now they have been whistling indifferently. But what they are doing now is not social policy, it is the redistribution of poverty. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Point 4. Public aggregated investments remain at the same level as in 2016. Fifth point. Health grants are drastically reduced. In the EEA, the decrease is about 38% compared with 2016. For public hospitals the increase is zero and the situation dramatically for Greek patients. We have returned to times before 1981 and the major reforms of PASOK. Anyone who has no money in this place to deal with their health problems dies. Unfortunately, this is another great tough truth, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL. In conclusion, the 2017 budget is the footprint of SYRIZA's conservative and fiscal policy - ANEL. It is a brake and another barrier to development and exit from the crisis. The Democratic Alliance is voting against this budget with a deep sense of responsibility towards Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, our attitude towards this government is quite clear. They will find us dynamically across both Parliament and society. But with the hand of the heart I would like to address the citizens who are watching us and I know that at the moment they are living with stress, fear and insecurity. There is another way, the way of national understanding, the way of the national line to get out of the memoranda and the crisis, the path of development accelerators and not the permanent cutter, with bold overthrows in the state, taxation, red loans, markets and justice. They are bold changes that can create jobs, because they will bring investors. A development shock needs the country and it needs it immediately, through new relationships, state, society and the market, complementary and not competitive. There is the path of audacity in education and health, unemployment policies, pensions, the logic of social justice. There is the path of social solidarity, which ensures guaranteed social income, the EASA, but also the dimension of disability in all policies. This is the way the Democratic Partnership guarantees, with new integrated proposals, with an autonomous and distinct policy. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] One more thing. Regardless of the commitments again made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, there is scope for another strong government, a government of national understanding with a large majority of all pro-European forces, which can achieve three important goals for the country. Firstly, to put the issue of the write-down and restructuring of the public debt at the debate table in good time and efficiently again. Secondly, to ensure a high level of development quickly, not only through the large investment we need to attract and the privatisations that must go ahead, but also through the activation of all the creative and productive forces of this place, through a productive reconstruction plan and a national, development and social agreement that will ensure fair distribution of the benefits of development. Thirdly, a strong government that can guarantee that the necessary progressive reforms will have a broad social consensus. They will be embraced by Greek citizens because they will feel that they are changes in favour of the citizen and not against them. So it's going to create real exit conditions from the deadlocks we've driven today. Ladies and gentlemen, this SYRIZA Government - ANEL has closed its cycle. The sooner they leave the better for the place. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But the solution for Greece is not a right-wing government, it is not the right-wing rectification. Look at their attitude to work, for example. No voice, no hearing! They neither express disagreement nor commit to the future. They talk about reforms, but they do not commit that these will be progressive reforms that will have the agreement, the consent of society. They are critical, but they never propose anything about insurance, unemployment, health. Of course they do not have a single word about the disastrous responsibilities of the New Democracy Government from 2004 to 2009, when both the debt and the deficit were launched. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This cannot be the way to the future for Greek women and Greeks. Conservative turn, right-wing rectification is a turn - back to tough, anti-grassy, clientele, materialistic and anti-productive, ultimately policies. SYRIZA and New Democracy have refused and refused national understanding, and they are both trying to impose a duplicate on them, because that is what serves them. Nothing has understood, from what's been happening in the last six years in this place. Ladies and gentlemen, the change of government and policy change are a condition of survival for our country today. But this requires a change in the political connections in society and the House with the decisive reinforcement of the forces of the Democratic Incorporation for National Cooperation and a large majority government, which will finally be able to effectively improve this very heavy agreement, which, with the back of the wall, was closed by the SYRIZA - ANEL government a year ago, so that we can finally leave the memorials and the crisis behind and, in fact, the words of self-confidence, pride, dignity, trust in this place again. We owe it to the Greek people for the sacrifices he has done all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. Now the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliakos, has the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the budget, a very important political debate, which from the previous speakers has also been targeted on other issues. I'll do it myself. I will begin with the relatively recent visit of our Prime Minister to Cuba to commemorate Fidel Castro's memory and he was, unfortunately, the only Prime Minister of Europe who went to Cuba to honour a leader of a communist state. But otherwise you say, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and all the left-wing, defenders of democracy. So let's see what kind of democracy Fidel Castro had. The exile Cubans are more than 20%, over two million of the eleven million. In 1994, seven thousand Cubans were bombed on board the ships they were on and died trying to escape Cuba. From fifteen to seventeen thousand Cuban political opponents of the regime have been executed on Castro's day. But the head of a supposed democratic government went to honor this leader. I am very sorry that the party which deals on the right - deals on the right - is not right - did not raise a political issue about this visit. In fact, the Cuban case had also dealt with the Greek public opinion in 1986, when a political prisoner of Cuba's ferocious Marxist regime, Armando Valantares, who had rotted for twenty-two years tormenting the prisons of the communist regime, had been swept away and was brutally corrupted by the proponents of Fidel Castro's Marxist dictatorship. Indeed, on the occasion of a book published at the time, an interview was published at the "ECONOMIC TAXYDROM" and this interview caused a storm of insults and a post published by the newspaper "THE PONTIKI" that he was a paid agent of the CIA. Then "THE POSTIKI" was professed by this Cuban intellectual. Counsellor for the defence of the newspaper "TO PONTIKI" was a leader of the renewing Left, which allegedly defends democracy and represented by SYRIZA. So silence from New Democracy too, tolerance to the Left. It does not miss an opportunity, the leader of the opposition officer's party to say that he respects the left-wing struggles. But then why does he ask for the votes on the right? I haven't noticed. Tolerance fully because we live forty-two years of ideological and political rule of the Left, and the only ones left, and finally there is a voice of opposition against Marxist tyranny, we, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We have a particular sensitivity to the issues of Greek history and the way in which SYRIZA was brutal, in the name of nationalism, trying to distort them. So, following this line, and the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, saying the memorial words to Fidel Castle, said: "Freedom or death was the slogan of the Greek Revolution in 1821. Patria the muerte was the slogan of the Cuban revolution of 1959." Neither little nor much, that is, the President of SYRIZA overlooked the 1959 Cuban uprising, which was an uprising against an anti-popular regime, with the national revolution of 1821. But Mr. Tsipras answers Moria's old man, Theodoros Kolokotronis - and it is important that these words be heard here against the perverts of Greek history - who said: "Our revolution is not like any of what is happening today in Europe. Europe's revolutions against its administrations are a civil war. Our war was the fairest. He was a nation with a nation." In Cuba it was not a nation with a nation. They were Cubans against Cubans. It is a pretext that it is a permanent objective of the left-wing ethnicists to distort our national history. But because you are as you say - and I believe - left, it will be good, to read you a quote from the work of Yiannis Kordatos, the history of the Left, who specifically mentions the Greek Revolution of 1821, in response to the parallelity of the Cuban uprising and overthrow of the 1959 Batist: "The Greek Revolution of 1821 is a great station. The national liberation struggle of our ancestors on the one hand showed the vitality of our race and on the other hand the undisturbedness of the Ottoman Empire." But national liberation struggle. But there, where, really, you should seek excuses and do your known dogmatic conversations, to find an answer to the question that Kordatos says is in the following passage from his book "Agricultural Question", which is in volume 21 of the "History of the Greek Nation" of Cordatos, where he writes attributes: "We must not see the Greek Revolution as a political and social movement and with today's ideological criteria to interpret certain events in 1821. The rebellious Greece of 1821 was not Russia of 1917. In the name of leftism, there must be no falsification of history." This is addressed to all of you SYRIZA’s companions. In the name of leftism, do not distort Greek history. In 1821 it was a revolution of the Greeks and not a social revolution! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We are talking today about the budget. At the same time, we have a WALL STREET report, which strikes the danger of the uncontrolled situation in our country about so-called refugees. Some are indeed refugees, some are irregular immigrants. I don't understand what you mean by irregularity. That they didn't put the seal right or that they didn't have any paper stamps? They're illegal immigrants, they're illegal immigrants! Thirteen thousand, then, of those recorded in Immigrant Host Areas, are missing! You don't know where they are. This is not possible in a civilized state. It seems that Greece has become Far West, with natives, with Indians, with cowboys. Wild West you've made Greece! Thirteen thousand people are missing an entire city! While all this is happening, the European Commission has tabled a proposal to reinstate the Dublin II Treaty, according to which, as we know, those crossing Greece's borders since March 2017 and later in Europe should be returned to Greece. This situation is reminiscent of what is happening in Australia, where the Australians have found an island about three thousand kilometres away from Australia, the Isle of Muara, if I remember its name well, where they promote illegal immigrants there. At the same time, Europeans shortly after Erdogan's threat that it will launch three million refugees and illegal immigrants to Europe, what have they done? They memorized and energized the Dublin II Treaty, with the agreement, gentlemen of the New Democracy, your executive - he was Vice-President of your party - of Dimitris Avramopoulos. Why in March and not January 2017? But from March the weather opens and the ships will begin to come. Are you ready to deal with this jungle? I think not! The only ones who are truly resisting this situation are the golden people, who say in every way that Greece belongs to the Greeks and not to those who come without the responsibility of Greece! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] At the same time as this great national issue, we have the Erdogan declarations on the claim of the Greek islands and on the revision of the Treaty of Lausanne. Let it be said in this Chamber, perhaps for the first time - only in the Middle War - that Greece did not win by the Treaty of Lausanne. He lost more than he lost from the military side. Both General Pangalos and our head of the Hatzyriakos War Fleet insisted that Imbros, Tenedos and East Thrace should be claimed. In ignorance of the Greek Government, Eleftherios Venizelos - and that is why he is accountable to Greek history - proceeded with the signing of this treaty, which the Turks have violated. In Imbros and Tenedo there were only Greek populations and few Turks. Today few Greeks and over ten thousand Turks live. It is, in fact, a downfall for a proud country, to regard as a national achievement, that it will once again work in a kindergarten in Imbros with three children. There we have become, where Hellenism was blossoming, there today, completely dominated by Turkey. The visit of the Members of the Golden Dawn to Kastelorizo was indignant and wrathful. I should inform you that the Golden Dawn MPs had gone to Kastelorizo in May 2016. They didn't go on the occasion of this visit. In the name of national unity we would go with anyone in Kastelorizo, because Kastelorizo that Erdogan says is Turkish, is Greece, much more Greece than Athens, Thessaloniki, the big cities. In the Aegean is the heart of Greece, where the three brave officers of our Navy, Yalopsos, Karathanasis and Vlahakos gave their lives. There the Golden Dawn MPs were found and an unacceptable, enthusiastic and slandering announcement came out of the group of so-called "53+" of the SYRIZA Government's party for the visit to Kastelorizo, which mentions characteristics, that "the government's visit with the neonazis of the Golden Dawn on the remote islands is rinsing out a subject party with criminal activity". Are you serious? Did you make a court decision, SYRIZA's comrades? Did the presumption of innocence apply only to the killers in November 17th? There's a trial. Why do you not respect any decision of justice that will arise? The announcement continues: “The sensation with them in a show so easy and patriotous logic is part of how politics is produced”. It wasn't the Golden Dawn MPs' visit to Kastelorizo. Maybe it's a show for you and why wouldn't it be? The head of the "53+" group as far as I know, the Minister of Finance has been born in the Netherlands and has grown up in England. Has he served in the Greek Army? I personally, in the honored uniform of the Greek officer, have served at the Castle of Mytilini and have seen the lights in Aivali, which was a Greek city.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u187	I've served twenty - four months in armoured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u188	If he had served, as you say, dear sir, he would have served a quarter, with a special scandalous law that they had done as...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u189	I've served twenty - four months in armoured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u190	What did you say, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u191	Twenty-four months in armoured!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u192	Well done! You've served twenty-four months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Michalokoo, go ahead, please. We don't now have a competition for who's served the most.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u194	Yes, sir. Do you know anything about the rights department of SYRIZA, which is in favour of the negligent militants and deserters? Have you heard anything? Any announcements about the Spartacus network connected to your movement, have you ever heard of it? We wore the honored uniform of the Greek soldier and officer and served both at Mytilini and at the Greek-Bulgarian border and everywhere. Your President, if you want us to fatten, he has declared that he served by a plug in the Pentagon, taking an interim postponement. So don't talk about patriotism. Let's not monopolize patriotism. patriotism belongs to everyone. Indeed for this visit to Kastelorizo, the Turkish newspaper 'YENI SAFAK', which reflects Erdogan's views, published an article entitled 'Dangerous Show of the Greeks' - agrees with '53+' - and strongly criticises Greece and blames Golden Dawn as an extreme fascist party. The attitude of the New Democracy, which is characterized as a mature party, avoids taking fascist positions against Turkey, but also Potami and PASOK. I would like to say to colleagues in these parties that, when the Turks congratulate you, you are condone by the Greek people and history! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Finally, in this critical situation that the Turkish threat is raw and given that we have a casus belli that the Turkish National Assembly has voted for, which says that if Greece exercises its legitimate right to extend its territorial waters to twelve miles, this is a casus belli, that is, a cause of war. So now that Erdogan is threatening to war, he is threatening to demand the Greek islands, and we and the Greek Parliament unanimously vote for her own casus bellilli, that if she lets these millions of refugees and illegal immigrants pass to Greece, this is a casus belli? Two hundred forty on Thursday, two hundred sixty-six on Friday, three hundred thirty today. Erdogan's caravans are starting to come! Stop it! It's your national debt. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Finally, the whole House should have an opinion on national issues. Unfortunately, however, it does not have how to have, when many of the government's MPs have no objections, to be called Skopje Macedonia, plucking up Greek history with its repressive policy. Many of them were fans of Enver Hoxha, who had enslaved the northern continent, who still remains enslaved. Since it is a hot matter of the Cyprus issue, to say that for us the position of Archbishop of Cyprus is right, who said that in order to find such a solution, such as the one that Anastasiades cooks, it is better not to find a solution. Rescue will come from Europe New Democracy told us and then PASOK agreed, the SYRIZA prestigious situation in the area of the so-called centre-left, and that, with our accession to the European Union, Turkish risk ceases. The late professor Panagiotis Kondylis, from the left, responds to these issues. He writes: "While Greece has oriented soul and body in Europe to ensure from the Turkish risk, their European orientation will change into a de facto instrument for transforming it into a Turkish satellite. The Turkish influence will be exercised on Greece not directly but mitigated through the US and European pipelines and it is not excluded that the Greek side will once begin to view the retreats towards Turkey as a self-evident and self-evident place for its Europeanisation. The 'cultural' people will have overcome nationalist atabisms and will not start wars for things as antiquated to our refined world as our sovereign rights are.' We do not accept this refined world of yours. We're not civilized. In the name of national price if we need war with Turkey, to ensure our national freedom and sovereignty! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] You are looking for prostates and when on 14 August 2015 there was the debate on the agreement, which would be signed, which was the new memorandum, you fully agreed, gentlemen of the New Democracy, saying that without the euro Greece is being destroyed. At this point I will read you about the patrons, protectors who have been in Greece for two hundred years. You left who have always been in the contour against the protectors, now you are praying to enjoy their favor. It's no accident. It is, in fact, humiliating. A few days before visiting Cuba, your Prime Minister, to honor Fidel Castro, had welcomed to Greece the Barack Obama of capitalist America. From Barack Obama to Fidel Castle a memorial road was through the Levi Institute. Well, that's who you are. So says Andreas Calvos, whom you would call fanatical: “Better, better dispersed the Greeks to run the world with extended hands of bread seekers than to keep us. The hand where you offer a sign to a foreign nation drowned and drowned the people again and even." We have been stricken by the protection of all these last decades, so you have made Greece into the present situation. I come to the budget in a budget which, in the time of national defence, is sad. The Memorandum, gentlemen, was paid dearly by the Greeks. Already for the period 2009-2016, the national defense has suffered cuts in total reductions of more than 52 % of the EUR 3,5 billion. It is outrageous that the vast majority of the Greeks who are suffering have to see an amount of EUR 14 million from the Public Investment Programme for national defence and EUR 25 million for Mr. Musala's Ministry for refugees and illegal immigrants. It really should be, if we had a national government, today in the budget for there to be a registration, an important registration, and that is no other than a mortgage loan. The Germans had paid three instalments and then - historian Hagen Flisser said so - they had enrolment in 1945 for the loan. On the subject, I quote from an article by the current President of the Republic, Mr. Pavlopoulou in your newspaper, "AGEI", which says: "The current claims of the German Minister of Finance, Mr. Soibelle, regarding Greece's demands are manifestly and provocatively wrong. Not only is there no question of limitations or prior regulation, as you claim, but the above-mentioned Greek requirements are fully legally active.’ So we're telling you Nazis to ask for the mortgage loan. You, in the end, are subordinate to Merkel's policy, you are not asking for the mortgage loan, and you are accountable to the Greek people who are suffering. The amount of this loan under the SPIEGEL is about as much as debt. Expenditure cuts on each side and among all the other one supply of 300 euros to each low pensioner. Do you think that with 300 euros you will also buy their vote? You're very far off! In addition, we have a dramatic increase in indirect taxes, namely oil, gas, cigarettes. They are taxes unfair, which the whole people will pay. Your budget is a memorandum and we will therefore vote against it. Apart from a memorandum, however, it does not stand in mind, because once the Greeks have unpaid debts to the public of EUR 91 billion, you ask them to give EUR 46 billion. Golden Dawn will vote against your budget. Golden Dawn raises the flag of the national opposition against the memorials and the national issues for which no one is interested. Golden Dawn will consistently fight to get our homeland back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and three teachers attending from the 9th Kalamaria High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before I summon the Vice-President, Mr Giannis Drasakis, I would like to make an important announcement to you, in my opinion, concerning Parliament and I am sure it will receive your approval and will be tabled in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, since the rational implementation of the Parliament's budget, which we had the figures for the financial year 2016, there is a clear possibility of a significantly improved budget of EUR 5 million, thus creating room for funding other social priorities. This amount could be used directly to tackle, for example, the refugee crisis and investigated by the relevant Greek Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u196	The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Yiannis Drasakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, we must say and remind the outgoing representatives of the Golden Dawn that the biggest crimes against this country and country were committed in the name of our country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The biggest crimes against the Greek nation were committed in the name of the nation and the betrayal of Cyprus was still in the name of the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you represent the patriocardial cave. This is your ideology, which is one of the most industrious ideologies that exist in our country. As the German nation was destroyed by German fascism, as the Italian nation was affected by Italian fascism, so this country is in danger, not from the left, but from the patriots, as you are. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek state's budget for 2017 is being discussed in an international and European environment of growing uncertainty. The outbreaks of instability and tension are growing and many are close to us. The result of the referendum in Italy, the elections in the United States of America, the vote in favour of Brexit in Britain and a number of other events show the need for radical changes, which if not done, people and Europe in particular are led to systemic deadlocks. They are wrong for those who render developments to the demagogues. Right-wing populism, like xenophobia and racism, is not the cause but is the distorting result of deeper social causes and have delusional effects for those who, especially in Europe, persist in the same policy and persist in the doctrine of 'business as usal', closing eyes to the pain of increasing inequality and insecurity caused by the absence of hope and prospect. These are delusional, because the developments we are experiencing show that, despite the wide differences between countries, a common element emerges. This common element is that neoliberalism, both in its wildly brushy form and in its softest version, has long lost its original power. He can no longer promise anything but inequality and insecurity. That is why the gap of confidence towards the dominant elite is widening everywhere. This is not only the case in the peripheral countries of capitalism, as we know, but it is now in the ultra-developed centres of capitalism. From London to Rome, then, and from Europe to the United States, the distance between the sovereigns and the sovereigns, between the peoples and the elites, between the poor and the rich, between work and capital is widened. These developments require reflection, reflection and redefinition of priorities. In this case they call for a balance of priorities, such as those for us, for example, the consistent implementation of the agreement, from which funding of the country depends, until we get out of the market and the simultaneous strengthening of the cohesion of society, on the other hand. Because societies also have limits, and if the boundaries of societies are violated, monsters and monsters are created. That is what the Prime Minister's announcements are about. They have nothing to do with elections or election plans. They are an essential aspect of the government's strategy of exiting the crisis with society upright and of a way of implementing the agreement with creditors who, despite the budgetary constraints that exist, want and try to serve our policy at the same time as social justice and cohesion. This is just a distinct difference from previous governments, this is a substantial difference from the New Democracy. The measures announced by the Prime Minister are not in breach of any agreement, as some New Democracy officials have been raped to say. On the contrary, they make use of the room that the sacrifices of the people themselves create. What our government does, is every euro that can be saved, go to those who need it, and that is the new one that we want to introduce into the country's policy. The suspension of the increase in VAT on the islands that are at the forefront of the refugee crisis, the exceptional financial support for the low-retirement workers but also other measures that are already in force, such as access by uninsured people to the public health system, the application of the social income of solidarity and others, are measures that not only help the social groups in the weakest position but are measures that help the entire society, because they contribute to social cohesion and help to the recovery of the economy. It is part of our policy and the positive plan that we have promised the Greek people about exiting the crisis. Critical station of this project, a critical stage along the way to the completion of the programme, so that there can be opportunities to borrow from the markets, is precisely the phase we are going through. From the outcome of the negotiations, from the brief closure of the second assessment, which can also be done as the relevant ministers have assured, and from the sequence of measures to follow, our rapid integration into the bond market programme of the European Central Bank and others will depend on whether and how quickly we will come out of a clearing, which will not, of course, be the final end of the crisis, but will allow us, in terms of political autonomy, to design our action within the European and global institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u198	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Go on, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u199	This project, despite the continuing and constantly destructive disaster of the New Democracy, is moving towards the final phase of its implementation. The successful completion of our project precisely cancels every debate on a fourth memorandum to a number of centres, both inside and outside of our country, who believe that this country cannot be governed without memoranda, without troikas and without enforcement. Four factors, I think, inter alia, make the implementation of this project absolutely possible. The first is the implementation of the agreement itself, which has largely been completed and the possibility of completing the second assessment if the European framework on labour matters is respected. Secondly, there are developments in the real economy. The vicious circle of recession is broken and those who are still talking about recession will simply be disguised. The third factor is the announcement of short-term debt measures, which, although they are only part of the overall regulation, are important, because they provide strong protection against the risk of increasing interest rates, at a time when we think it is very likely that this increase will occur. The comparison made by some with the PSI, i.e. the previous debt restructuring, is unstable and misleading because what was left of the PSI and the second Memorandum, was not a reduction in the debt, as is shown by the figures, but the bank bankruptcy, the depletion of the reserves of the insurance funds, the depth of the recession and the increase in unemployment. The fourth supporting factor is that in conditions of growing uncertainty and instability, our country's geopolitical role is being strengthened and our policy, precisely, is trying to further strengthen our country's international position and role. So the country has a clear plan. This project is on implementation and integration trajectory. The New Democracy disasters once again will be disproved. But the basic prerequisite for the successful completion of our project is time. It's not enough to go out on the market once. It is not enough to complete the second assessment at one time. It's not enough to get into the quantum relaxation program once. All this has to be done on time, and yet all the procedures in the first months of 2017 must be completed, so that we can test ourselves on the markets before the end of the first half of 2017, so that the mistakes made in 2014 are not repeated. I must remind you here, because I heard a lot about 2014, that what happened at the time was that a plan was set up in the first place in an electoral logic. The issue facing the government at the time was how to avoid defeat in the European elections and when defeat came, how to recover from that defeat. That was Mr Samara's so-called success story. That's why an event was organized, like a bond issue in April 2014. The bond was indeed sold at high interest rates. The following, however, was not able to be sold in the summer of 2014 as the favourable situation in the meantime had changed. All subsequent publications planned and the crisis - which had never left - came back further. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, it is the crisis you are vain trying to load on to us, hiding that the deterioration of the situation has already begun. The opposition accuses the current government of allegedly committing the country to great surpluses. This is another lie. The truth is that the current government is trying to relieve the country of the unavoidable surpluses which had been committed by the former ones. Based on the second Memorandum, the basic scenario predicted a 4% surplus for the period 2016-2020 and 4% for the period 2021-2030. Do you now see a lot of 0.5% of 2016, 1.7% of 2017 and 3.8% of the ceiling, the ceiling, for the discussions that are taking place? At the same time, of course, the International Monetary Fund proposes 1.5%, provided that there is a corresponding debt relief. The paradox - and we must say it here - with the attitude of the International Monetary Fund is that if creditors do not now agree to a sufficient debt relief, then the International Monetary Fund asks us for additional measures of EUR 4 to EUR 4.5 billion, as if Greece were responsible, because creditors do not reduce the debt, as we are asking. In any case, however, the government has made it clear in all directions that it does not discuss measures, since they are outside the agreement and outside the mandate given to us by the Greek people. Any delays and contradictions characterise the negotiation at this stage are not due to the delays of the Greek side or to the other obstacles that we make. It is solely due to divergent and contradictory pursuits by some of the lenders. Some countries, for example, Europeans certainly want the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme but do not accept the conditions set by the International Monetary Fund in order to participate. The International Fund, again, considers a precondition as I said about the success of the Greek programme, not the more austerity as it says, but the more debt relief. But when this second demand for more debt relief does not take place, it comes to what it says it does not want, i.e. it comes to measures that lead to more austerity. In other words, it attempts to respond with another irrationalism. Unfortunately, however, the two irrationalisms do not lead to a reasonable version. The way out, however, also exists for promotional solutions, if the debate is shifted from the surpluses to the conditions for achieving them, particularly in growth rates and in the distribution of surpluses. All the figures mentioned are large degrees of arbitrariness. Even the 2% or 1.5% surplus is arbitrary, because this cannot be achieved either if we have anaemic recovery or the economy is in recession. Conversely, higher surpluses may prove possible if the economy achieves higher recovery rates. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] I will need your tolerance for at least two minutes, Mr President. So let us discuss how much growth we can achieve and how to strengthen it and see on this basis what surpluses we can achieve. This, in my view, is the first basis for finding a way out of the contradictions that arise at this juncture. The commitment to achieve a certain level of surplus is meaningful only if it is accompanied by specific policies ensuring an appropriate level of economic growth. The second basis for a forward-looking solution and a way out is that, as the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, has proposed, part of the surplus that we will be able to achieve, in order to finance targeted and socially fair tax exemptions, to finance outward, investment and support the social state. If, i.e. part of the surplus returns to society and the economy, this will help create further conditions for the development process to continue. Otherwise it'll be interrupted. So the government has a plan. Its positive completion is absolutely possible. This plan meets the needs of not only our country but also of Europe. This plan is supported by economic progress, which after a long and deep recession has the precondition of entering a developmental orbit. The 2017 budget serves precisely this plan. It ensures that the necessary budgetary surpluses are achieved without new measures being taken. It also ensures the transition from the recession to recovery and employment and, despite budgetary constraints, strengthens the social state and investment. I urge you to vote in favour of him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much Mr. Drasakis. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago in the debate on the 2015 budget, from that point of view Mr Tsipras urgently asked for the government to leave. With the Golden Dawn partnership and the help of the then, but also today of its paradoxes, he dragged the country into elections and along with them on a great adventure. The time has come, then, two years later, to do, Mr. Tsipras, an account of your government service. The country's backwardness in these two years has no precedent. Since post-mortem, no elected government has caused so much damage at home in such a short time. SYRIZA and the ANELs threw everything to everyone, dividing and poisoning the Greek society, and stifling an extreme wave of demagogicism, which almost blew the country off into the air. They undermined by slander and mud any attempt to bring the country back to 2012-2014. They took an economy in growth and returned it to the recession. They canceled a series of important reforms in critical areas, such as education and public administration, only to satisfy their party clientele. And today you are celebrating, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the possibility of returning to the level of financial indicators - if everything goes well - sometime in 2017, where we were in 2014. But this is probably the optimistic scenario. Why did it go well these two years, to hope that it will go well now? The reality, however, is irreversible and the numbers do not lie. We're here to remind you. You know, the facts are stubborn. In 2014, after six years of recession, the country had a positive growth rate. The Commission's forecasts, the same forecasts that your Minister invokes today, said at the end of 2014, that we would have growth of 2.9% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016. Instead, the country went back to recession. In 2014 the country succeeded for the second consecutive year a primary surplus higher than that of 2015, although the SYRIZA government had to take many billions of additional austerity measures. Of course, in 2014, we had reductions in tax rates, without the agreement of the troika at that time. VAT was reduced from 23% to 13%, excise duty was reduced by 30%, the exceptional solidarity levy was reduced by 30% and insurance contributions decreased by 5%. In 2014, however, the government’s outstanding debts had decreased by a total of EUR 6 billion. Today they have increased by 60%. In 2014 the country had a banking system, which yes, had its problems, but it was operational. Today the value of the banks has been nullified, the possibility of liquidity is not there, the capital controls are still here and it is unknown how long they will stay. And in the field of competitiveness, the country is going backwards. In the period 2012-2014 we had managed to win forty-two positions. From the hundredth place we went to the fifty-eighth. On your own days, we have dropped three positions. In 2016, the largest number of padlocks was recorded in the years of the crisis. The business deletions - look out! - from January to September 2016 they increased by 33% compared to last year. As far as unemployment is concerned, we have for the first time a major overthrow in the labour market. Flexible forms of employment are more than full-time and the declining of unemployment, for which you are so proud, is extremely slow. May I remind you what the committee's forecasts were at the end of 2014? Unemployment 19.5% at the end of 2016. Where is unemployment today, Mr. Tsipras? It's 23.7%! What does that mean in practice? It means two hundred thousand jobs that have not been created! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, the red loans from households and businesses are multiplying and the economy has filled time bombs. The insurance funds are bleeding. PPC has a huge liquidity problem, a serious chance to collapse fully next summer. Urban transport is already falling apart. So the cost you're leaving behind, Mr. Tsipras, after two years, is huge. It's not just us. A lot of others have said it. In EUR 86 billion, the Governor of the Bank of Greece appreciates it, 100 billion is appreciated by Mr. Reggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u202	Well, now, with the appreciation of Stournara. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u203	These numbers bother you, I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u204	Don't react, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u205	Twenty-one billion euros of lost national wealth in the two years you have been ruling, ladies and gentlemen. And these are numbers, you know, which are undeniable, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. These are your works and days. You promised hope and caused disappointment and depression. You promised dignity and brought about social cataracts. You promised a change and you keep the country stuck in the past, but at the same time drugizing its future. You have risen to power, lying and holding, smuggling excuses, dividing society and charging your own inability to your political opponents. I listened with great interest to many of the SYRIZA Members' speeches. I saw they dealt more with me than with the budget. You are the first government to blame not the previous one, but the next government for your own omissions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why you are disgraceful today in the consciousness of the citizens. You are a government with zero credibility, non-existent political capital, a government without a plan that comes from and behaves by lenders. The story will be very relentless with you. I really wonder what your deposit will be when you leave power. But one thing is certain: the capital of post-military populism is finally closing with you. Society will never again trust a politician who made lies lifestyle and deception, the dominant element of his political path. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When, Mr. Tsipras, you were building your election account, you had two topics as a flag. Firstly, that you will put an end to austerity, secondly that you will delete the debt. You failed both. As far as the issue of austerity is concerned, you have exceeded every negative prediction. To reverse the destructive course of the first half of 2015, you took so many measures that you exhausted the households and wiped out the real economy. And today you are coming with the Eurogroup decision and you are drugizing the future of the country. You accept very high primary surpluses for a longer period than the third memorandum period. The text of the conclusions of the Eurogroup I have here is signed by Mr Tsakalotou. So let's go see, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly does this text say. Firstly, it accepts a budget gap for 2018, which needs to be covered by additional austerity measures. Secondly, it confirms that fiscal targets will remain high at 3.5% of GDP after 2018. Thirdly, it commits to additional, structural measures and permanentisation of the cut. And that's your signature, Mr. Tsipras. What remains unclear, what we do not know from the Eurogroup decision, is how long these primary surpluses will bind us. But whether it's for five or ten, the damage is huge and austerity is harder than ever. You have risen into power by flag that you will abolish the austerity "with a law and an article" and imposed austerity over a long period of time, narrating not only the next governments but also the country itself. You have promised that you will slit the memoirs and you have already signed and implemented the third memorandum, the supplementary memorandum and you have initialled the fourth memorandum. Debt measures shall be equivalent to a Memorandum after the third Memorandum. I'm not saying it. It is said by the former Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Valavani, with her interview today at the "News". Her successor, Mr. Juliarakis, said yesterday in this Chamber that the IMF is asking you for additional measures of 4.5% for 2019 for the following year after the end of the program. Now we're going to your second big goal in debt regulation. You started not to remind you of where the debt was removed, through international conferences and other interesting drafts on paper, and you ended up after two years, after the country has suffered great financial damage, in a problematic agreement. What did you win? Very little self-evident stuff, anyway, agreed for a long time. You have, however, failed in the importants for the country. I would like to make it clear once again that we as a New Democracy will support any attempt to write off the debt. Furthermore, this is an agreement that the European partners had undertaken since November 2012. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough. Debt reduction is necessary, but not sufficient treaty to get the country forward. Of course, you cannot compare your "success" to previous debt write-off decisions. The double restructuring of 2012-2013 reduced the debt by EUR 132 billion and reduced the interest by EUR 6 billion a year. Fortunately you too recognise this, because this is the table, which is included in the budget on page 131. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But tell your MPs, Mr. Tsipras, because the needle is stuck in the time when you said how disastrous the PSI was. And remember them, of course, it is your government that defended its legitimacy in the European courts. Enough hypocrisy in this Chamber! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So what did you do with this decision? It does not reduce the debt at nominal prices. It does not reduce the repayment of debt in the first years - on the contrary, it is slightly burdened - and some reductions occur, mainly after 2040. And all of this at what price? At what cost? Many years of austerity and very high primary surpluses, which you have already accepted. Instead of insisting on and ensuring immediate debt relief in order to save resources now that we need them to breathe the economy, you are celebrating a regulation that has short-term costs and carries the benefits up to forty-five years later. You know, it's like going to a highly indebted household, to a housewife and tell him: "For five years you will pay more interest to see sometime in the ultimate future, a relief for your grandchildren." Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget captures and condensates all the deadlocks of government policy. It proves in practice that you have no reliable, no realistic exit plan from the crisis. It highlights your ideological obsessed, left fantasies residues. Where they've been tested, they've failed miserably. Do you know what your problem is? Your problem is that while the surrounding world was evolving, while technology, education, innovation, the organisation of production was jumping, you were busy. You were busy managing SYRIZA's components, solving accounts with the past, dreaming about Fidel's revolution, chasing windmills. The result, do you know what it was? When you landed sharply in reality, when you crashed into reality, you had absolutely nothing left! No plan for the country, no development counterproposals to the creditors' proposals. Any serious government would have a planned plan. You have none at all. You don't know anything about how real production works and the economy you still learn from some spooky marxist writings. All you know is taxing. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u206	And Oxford...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u207	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u208	And Oxford has a lot of Marxist economists. You bring 2.6 billion new taxes, taxes which, according to your Minister, do not undermine the competitiveness of Greek businesses. We heard that. And, of course, most of the taxes are indirect, these are the taxes that you recognized as being the most socially unfair. So the weak - to remind them of the figures, because they have one value - will pay the 437 million of VAT, the 422 million increase in taxes on energy, 62 million in drinks, 62 million in coffee. And tell me these taxes also have a substantial impact on them? Greek citizens pay Scandinavia level taxes and take Mr Polakis' health services in return, Mr Toska's safety, Mr Katrugalos' pensions and Mr. Friend's education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u209	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u210	I would like to dwell a little on the field of education, which is indicative of the enormous damage you have caused in the country. Have you read the European Commission's report that found deterioration at all levels of education?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u211	Reduction of spending says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u212	Did you read? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Enough please, gentlemen! Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Xydakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u214	Listen to the arguments. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u215	Please! Do not interrupt, intervene or dispute arguments. For five days there has been heard of those who were to listen. Now it's only the Chief of Officer's Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u216	The PISA exhibition ranks Greek students very low on the basis of the performances in mathematics and text understanding. You, Mr. Tsipras, put "20" on Mr. Friends until you had to change him. I now come to the issue of Mr Tsipras' earlier announcements of the extraordinary aid to the low-pension workers. I cannot be tempted to remind the House of what you were saying, Mr Tsipras, in Yannana in March 2014, on the occasion of the social dividend distributed by Mr Samaras' government at that time. I read and listen, because the President told you this: "We consider an act of shame, an act of shame, an act of humiliation to every citizen of this country, Mr Tsipras". If this is not the absolute political stubbornness, then the words have lost their meaning. This is a deed deeply immoral, showing fear in front of the polls. How does this stink of ignorance and contempt fly into the face of the Greeks, thus attempting to remove them the last they have left, their dignity? History is avenged, Mr. Tsipras. And it repeats itself like a prank on your face. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] After you have cut pensions, you have increased your health contributions, you have abolished the CSCE, you are, in fact, returning a sum back to the pensioners to take it back next year with the measures you are taking. At the same time as you do this and make this specific choice, public debts are escalating. Young pensioners are waiting for up to three years to retire. The minimum guaranteed income, what is aimed at the truly poor citizens of this country, has not been fully financed. The Public Investment Program has shrinked. The social state also misleads unemployment benefits - look out - they cover a very small proportion of the unemployed. And you're doing this at what time, Mr. Tsipras? First, before finalising the data on the 2016 surplus, and secondly, before completing the second critical assessment. Has it not occurred to you that overcoming the objective of the surplus is the best negotiating weapon, which you have in your hands, to achieve in the future less measures and less surpluses? You are undermining with your moves the country's credibility. And you sacrifice the enormous efforts of all the Greek people on the altar of a fascinating communication firework. The definition of the demagogue, Mr Tsipras, is that which prefers to be temporary rather than useful in the long term. Unless, Mr. Tsipras, if you have any other plan in your mind, you can escape from power over a bed benefit, launching an artificial conflict with our creditors, to charge the bill to the next ones. So I am telling you quite clearly: 'Chompola, give it all away' has been paid very expensively, Mr Tsipras. The sooner you leave, the better it will be for the place. Prove once again how irresponsible you are. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are prepared to take responsibility. But we are neither afraid nor fooled. We have both the plan and the will to launch a country's recovery process. And if you think that with a Christmas benefit package, you will gain the trust of those who have eroded, deceived, ladies and gentlemen. Others promised benefits and then put us in memoirs, and today they're not even in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u217	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u218	You know very well who I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u219	Names!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u220	Quiet, please. Mr. Beyla, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, with the state budget to be voted on today, there is no Greek and Greek that has no good reason to worry. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, will you enforcing order in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u223	So do it. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u224	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u225	All Greeks are concerned, of course, with the exception of the parties favoured, who continue to grow. There is no hope for the unemployed. With most taxes, jobs are not going to be created. For low-wage workers there is no real prospect of improving their incomes. Incomes will decrease and jobs will be more insecure. For free professionals in 2017, it is planned to be nightmare. With a tax of 29%, plus 100% tax advance, plus significantly increased insurance contributions, plus an increased extraordinary solidarity contribution how will they last? You are, Mr Tsipras, the living nightmare of productive Greece and since you came you have locked the country in a state of endless paralytic negligence. Of course, it is already pointed out in many respects that the cases on which the budget is based are too optimistic. We don't. The OECD tells you, the Parliamentary Budget Office tells you, the Greek Financial Council points it out. Even you yourself in your report write about a number of major risks that can affect forecasts. Even you yourself do not believe your own assessments. I'm filing the relevant quote in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're talking about 2.7% growth. I wish you could achieve it, but you connect it to an increase in consumption of 1.8% and investments of 9.1%. I don't know any households to get ready to increase consumption in 2017. Of course, for investments, you'll probably be joking if this government increases by 9%. Not because Greece has no chance of attracting investment, not at all. It could be transformed into a real investment "El Dorado", but it is your Government that bumps every new investment and undermines every existing one. The concept of investor in Greece has become a joke. See DESCRIPTION, "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK", investments in Zakynthos, even the Greek, the largest and most important productive investment, is now incarved in your own ideas. After all, I should also like to remind the House of your results on the privatization front. You had a budget of EUR 2.5 billion, the actual revenues did not exceed 123 million. And add one more thing. If there is a hope for a small recovery this year, apart from the normal cycle of the economy, do you know where it will be? It will be due to all the investments that you once fought at regional airports in Greek, 'COSCO' in the major road projects that we designed, we voted, we saved in 2012 when you voted against them. Of course, whatever reforms and openings of professions are brought by the infamous OECD toolbox, which you have reported today by two - two - you are ordering the toolboxes from the OECD, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You fought all this, but you were defeated and thankfully your ideological defeat at least is a great profit for Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, what the country urgently needs today is what your own government is unable to offer, a coherent national plan for exiting the crisis, a Greek plan of ours. I presented this project at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. We are ready and determined to implement it, to attract investment, to get the economy ahead, to create jobs. It is precisely what the current government neither knows nor wants nor can do. Indeed, the objectives we must set - and I have heard that from other opposition parties - are ambitious. We must set the goal of achieving growth rates of 4% and creating a hundred and twenty thousand new jobs a year. Because these are the real potentials of the economy. Of course, we - we will not get tired of it - recommend a different mix of budgetary policy, with targeted reductions in government expenditure and reductions in taxes. You'll hear them. Don't be in a hurry. We are, in the mid-term, reducing HPAI to 30% in two years and recommend reducing the tax rate to the profits of companies from 29% to 20%, within two years. We are reintroducing VAT on agricultural supplies to 13%, abolishing excise duty on wine and increasing the VAT ceiling from EUR 10 000 to EUR 25 000. And we have tabled ten specific areas of government spending cuts, so that budgetary balance is not disturbed. And no one disputes that this policy is the fairest and most effective one. They call it eminent economists, the Parliament's Budget Office says so again, the Bank of Greece says so. You don't hear anything. Because in the great state, which you vision, your party friends find comfortable. You have adopted, you know, the worst habits of post-multipleism, which in words you are condemning, but in practice you are rushing to copy. What have you really done, Mr. Tsipras, to reduce the state and collect state expenditure? Why do you hire a whole lot of contractors, promising again simulation from the back door? Why do you create hundreds of unnecessary state structures? Why have you blown off the air, Mr. Tsipras, the urban transport, at a huge cost to the Greek taxpayer? Why have you done nothing to improve the public procurement system, to check the overregistration, which still exists on the medicine today? You have not promoted one single e-government action. Of course, therefore, there is room for limiting state expenditure without redundancies and without reductions in the quality of the services provided. You can't and you don't want to investigate them. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of a forward-looking and bold programme of Greek inspiration, planning and ownership reforms is the basic prerequisite for recovering the country's credibility. Only then will we be able to convince our creditors that the Greek economy really needs more financial space to support sustainable development. We believe that we can achieve this. Because when creditors see the consistency and determination of an effective government, they will support this effort. They will have no reason to insist on primary surpluses of 3.5% which no economy can achieve for a long time. But this financial area you have tried, Mr Tsipras, to claim it and failed. Only a serious and reliable government can claim him. And you sure aren't them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A government that will consistently implement, with determination, with a bold programme of national ownership reforms, reforms that will go beyond the commitments you have made in the third programme. Reforms that will promote competitiveness, extroversion, entrepreneurship in the economy. Reforms that will fight customer logic, public administration, impose dignity, evaluation - this forbidden word for you - mobility, transparency, accountability. Reforms that will upgrade public school and public university, and of course will finally allow the establishment of private universities. Reforms that will reconstruct the National Health System will speed up the administration of justice and ensure public order as an essential condition for freedom and reforms that will substantially redesign social policy with the focus of truly forgotten Greeks, those who feel today that no power is accountable to them. Such a programme, yes, would gain not only the confidence of Greek citizens, but also the respect of European partners. We, you know, do not go to Europe as either blackmailers or to the black sheep of the European family. Enough with politicians who, with great words, are small in Greece, are insulting our history and are unfair to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes that need to be made go beyond the horizon of rational technocratic management. They are, in fact, a drastic change in the overall way of operation of the state and the economy. They are, however, based, above all on an agreement of truth, on a new social contract of confidence. And the implementation of such a reform programme is absolutely essential to achieve a dynamic relaunching of the Greek economy. I don't have any delusions that he'll need a very serious effort from everyone. Changes are mature in society. I have no doubt, however, that we must defeat his perceptions and inertia yesterday, to defeat the frustration, the resignation caused by this government, and to put aside the dividing lines of the past. We prove in practice every day that we can do it. Greeks and Greeks are not afraid of hard work, nor of sacrifices. What is disturbing, what our people can't bear is that their sacrifices don't take place, that they do a lot of trouble without any result because of the foreign policies of this government. But since, as many people say, we had to suffer to find out, there's no reason to get more. The people have been torn apart with fraud and deceit. Society requires truth and realism and courageous race with reality. People now know, they've experienced it. Lies brought despair. The truth is the one that brings hope. And New Democracy, loyal to the historic mission it has served since its establishment, once again, will unite all Greeks who want to overcome the decline they want to conquer the future. And the current government will be the last to bring about slain flags of the past to hide from the citizens the hope of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece today needs a dynamic re-start, a re-start which can only arise from a political change. The political change we are asking for is not only about taking power in its narrow management sense, it is a prerequisite today for the country to be dismantled. It is the rupture with the painful, traumatic past. The current government does not know about it nor can it. Mr Tsipras is now addressing a 10% of society, to those who do not want any change, who refuse to see what has happened in the country, who bear great responsibility for others, to those who have a personal benefit from the current government. For the rest of society, you don't say anything anymore. And you cannot understand - how much more so to express - people who know what it is to start a business and fight today to keep it alive, people who have fought to keep workers, when their jobs shrink, when their jobs disappear and when the state owes them them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u226	Quiet, please! Please, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u227	I know, it's all very foreign to you! I get it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's another world, you know, the one you don't communicate with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u228	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u229	Private sector employees who see their income collapse and their jobs threaten the prospect of recovery to be depleted and you cannot understand how much more you are expressing professionals and self-employed people who see that with the taxes you have imposed they lose 75% of their income and wonder today whether they have a real reason to work. Of course you cannot say anything at all to the 1.2 million unemployed who are looking for a job, because the more you are ruling and the more you are in power will close than they will open. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with this thought: political change is necessary, optimism and confidence in our country again. Our homeland today needs the widest possible hollowing of all the forces of creation, the measure of the real progress of the middle class. And these forces of democracy, of understanding and of European policy form a large political, but also a social majority which is irresponsible. It's a majority capable of raising Greece. We are also calling for the support of citizens to express the dreams of the many, the hopes of the many. And the time when a competent and effective government will take over the fate of the place is near. And we must all stand up to our historical responsibilities. There are many citizens - you know - who tell us what is happening to Members of the New Democracy, because we are in a hurry, since you see what is happening. To be charged and loaded themselves. Indeed, the difficulties we take are enormous and every day will become greater, but they always go around the words of Nikos Kazantzakis: "The debt of everyone to save and save and always to face the unbelievable and unbelievable goddess, responsibility." We are not afraid of the responsibility, neither am I nor the party that I have the great honour of leading. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Nor do I fear the difficult decisions we have to make to bring the country up. And that's our big difference, Mr. Tsipras. And with a full consciousness of the challenges I will face, but with a full consciousness of the reality and the criticality of your moments, I am looking directly, Mr Tsipras, and I tell you: Your stay in power is damaging the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Give the Greek women and the Greeks the opportunity to decide how to move forward. The sooner you leave, the better it will be for home. Where we have arrived, the elections are not a problem for the country, they are the only solution to the problem of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Since there were personal references, but which were about the political of Ministers, it was clear in this sense, although it is evident that personal speakers could ask for clarifications, I would ask you to proceed with the procedure as it is. No one's touched on his personality. I call to Stepma Eukleidis Tsakalotos, Minister of Finance, for 30 minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make it clear for the Minutes that I am 'black', 'black' and 'blacks' and 'blacks'. So for the Minutes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] My speech today wants to compare two stories. The success storage and the true storage. We have heard a lot about the success story, which was overturned - supposedly - in 2014. Now we have heard a new version of this story: Low taxation, investment, development. They told us nothing about the world of work, employment relations or at least they tell us that this is a problem that we can look at in the future. When the pie grows, we can share it. So this story, this success story, doesn't tell us how many jobs will be lost in the public sector. Fillon's five hundred thousand are few, many? Do we want more? And if we lose them, where are we gonna lose them? Cheers, education? I have heard Mr Theodorakis say about the heroes in the private sector. I must also say to Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Theodorakis that there are many heroes and heroes in the public sector too. I would invite them both to come to my children's school, to public school, to high school and high school, to see what race they give and what respect they need and not always to be private. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In short, the success story hides a lot. But also the True Story is a difficult case. Our case, which is the true story, has many difficulties. Of course, it is not a story you will hear in the future in the newspapers, nor would you have heard it in the past. I'm making a comparison with the past and the first assessment. The "News" on May 4th wrote "Oh, my bitter ar..." that the first evaluation will not be closed. The "News" wrote just before "Psychrome, they got nothing" again for the first evaluation. On 7 September the NAYTETRATORIKI was entitled "The public fund is minus", when we know that we have exceeded 1 billion. He did not go back and on May 6th, he said "Shok and awe to the public, squeeze to wages and thirty thousand redundancies". “GENERIST” on 4 June has been titled “Kosteos since September”. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These were written by the newspapers so that people can't understand what the arguments are. True story says things are hard. He doesn't triumph. Nor did Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras triumph about the measures announced two days ago. I didn't hear that. I heard he said that it was the least possible that we could give and I understood from Mr Mitsotakis that this too should not have given it. Mr Mitsotakis doesn't know that for pensions, or we would spend it now, or they would be lost, because we couldn't account for them in the new year - will Mr Stavros explain this to you - but for the islands, where there is a crisis, where the refugee is, nor that? And that was supposed to be delayed? We do not triumph for unemployment either. We know that it has been reduced by two hundred thousand net since 1 January 2015, and that is why we are also triumphing. We know that things are difficult in Europe too. We know that after Brexit, after the referendum in Italy, with the rise of the populist right, Europe does not work and solve the problems or solve them quite quickly. And as long as it doesn't solve them, we'll have a problem, especially as long as it doesn't work out in a fair way. That's why we put collective agreements at the centre, as you heard from Efi Ahcioglou the day before, who told you that it's not an idealism of the Left, but it's a minimum measure for workers and workers to feel that they may have lost in the crisis, but at least they will be able to participate in the rise and recovery. And without collective agreements, without the possibility of negotiating, they will not be able to have that feeling, not only Greek and Greek workers, but all Europeans. True storage, the real story, is looking for a different Greece and a different Europe. And we say clearly that if the Left cannot serve this diversity, then there is no reason for it. But we also have an honesty to be a true true story. We understand the problems. We know who to help, who we do not want to help and who we want to help, and we cannot help because we have limitations. Let me tell you two limitations that make us difficult for a certain class. The first restriction is that we have had an absolute responsibility to help the poorest, the weakest, the most vulnerable. That is why we started our policy with the humanitarian crisis. That is why, at this stage, we unleash GMI, the minimum guaranteed income, which will cost 750 million. That is why last summer we made a progressive change in income tax, which brought great benefits to the poor. That is why we have increased our health and education expenditure in the budget. And with Mr Economou, who had a difference yesterday, we carefully explained to him that it is not the only health expenditure that is under the Ministry of Health, but is elsewhere, if he looks at these costs. This morning, when I woke up, I had a present at my house: A huge orange pie from a grandmother, whose grandson is my son's classmate, who told me that "when and as many times as you speak to Mr. Economou, you will get a pie like that." [[Laughers in the Chamber]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course, because I and Mr. Economou take care of our silhouette, I won't talk to him that way very often, I promise him. What's the second restriction? Tax evasion, smuggling, it's a difficult case, and the true story is self-criticizing. It is true that from the outset we had no proper assessment of how difficult this case is. So we're making self-criticism about these issues. But for the Lagard and Boryans lists, which tell us there's nothing going on, to remind you of a few things. In 2014 the certificate set was EUR 23.4 million and the number of completed cases 30 eight. In 2015 the certificate total was 173 million euros, while the number of completed cases was almost a hundred. We didn't forget about the Borgians list I heard here. The audits started immediately after the list had been received and a large number of audits have already been carried out by the financial prosecutors and tax agencies and we signed a joint declaration of intent with the respective state of Rhineland-Westphalia. On the Borgians list, within three weeks, we had identified hundreds of names. The Lagard list has spent three years identifying the first name. However, the most important thing is that all the names on the lists will be checked over the next period through the extremely important work of the Ministry of Finance, which SYRIZA started along with the ANELs, and which is in progress for cross-border tax statements on bank deposits. Basically, we unify all lists and add thousands of suspects to tax evasion. All of them will be checked. What's the bad news? That all that revenue we get from tax evasion doesn't work to close budget gaps. Institutions consider them to be non-measurable measures. What's the good news? The good news is that, whatever we win from it, we can spend it for the people we want to help. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But why did I say all this? Why did I say the two restrictions? We had the limitations of the poor, the most vulnerable, and we had the restriction that it was difficult to catch the rich quickly, so that's why we hit the middle people. We confess that. There's a large part of the middle classes, the self-employed and the small and medium-sized enterprises, which we've really beaten them and it's very difficult to get there. But we are telling them to listen carefully if they consider that the success story, which is based only on reduced taxation, will help them. We tell them to listen carefully to who they want to go and who they want to let go. We tell them, look at what is happening throughout Europe, where medium-sized strata are abandoning neoliberalism either in the centre-left version or in the centre-right version, because they understand that they are very vulnerable both to globalisation and neoliberalism. And they are vulnerable, because the great promise of globalisation, that it will only affect seafarers or those who work in the textile industry, has not been confirmed. The inequality of globalisation also hits the middle layers. So what we had to do here is see what plan these middle classes can take up: with a general investment programme, which says that we should reduce taxes, reduce wages and a development plan, which came out of Mr Stathakis and from Mr Haritsis to the previous government, where they completely changed the model, completely the targeting, the development model, and now they say that we need to go beyond the big projects, the roads? Of course, we also need major infrastructure projects, but what we need more in a country like Greece is many small projects. If you read from here, from my right side, what the EIB says, what the BRD says, what foreign houses say, you would see that they say that the Greek government has a development model, turns into these middle layers. And I really don't see any reason why these middle layers don't believe me. I tell them clearly that with the New Democracy you have no future, as you have no future with any party in the European people's family. Wherever you've been there, you've been ruined. We are now going to see whether the budget targets and 2.7 are realistic. Many have told us that the OECD tells us 1.8, some bank says 0.9. There are differences. The IMF, which has not broken us in optimistic forecasts, says 2.8, for example. The Commission says 2.7, the Bank of Greece says 2.5, BRD says 2. There's a lot of estimates, but it's not as difficult as you think. You wonder how it is possible to increase consumption when people have less money. And, in part, you're right. You forget, however, that unemployment is constantly falling and these people will start to be able to spend. You forget that with our social policy - I see Mr Polakis on the left, Mrs Fotou, Mr Blonde - with this policy that they do liberate things about incomes. You forget what I told you about the investments and the net corridor, which was from the outset the strategy of this government. And you told me that nothing was done and Mr Vorides said to me: 'How will short-term measures help this strategy in the rest of Attica?' First, let's get something straight. We have in front of us and I have made a suggestion to you two days ago that I have clearly said that the short-term measures - I will not repeat what I said there - are part of the puzzle, not the whole puzzle. We have not presented, the medium and long-term debt measures have not been agreed. But we cannot compare what has now been done, which is a step to reduce the risk of Greek debt and thus enable investors to have a clear dialogue. And of course, it can't be compared to the PSI. I will not be tempted to have another rivalry with Mr. Venizelo, who says that with his own PSI, one trillion would be saved by 2040. Mr. Venizelos' mathematics is not a matter of pushing back the borders of mathematical knowledge. It's beyond math science. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] What's the true story? True story says we can in 2017 and 2018 get growth. Is that enough? Oh, no. True story knows it's very difficult. He's not making fun of anyone. He looks at the world and says to him: "We'll have growth in '17 and '18. We may not have '19 and '20 unless we change many things'. The True Store therefore insists on another development model. The True store is therefore creating the fund, which we did not like, but changes it in form, so that it also has industrial policy through public enterprises, which are linked to sectoral and general development policy. And that is why the trust store in the fund for the first time creates the possibility that the properties of the Greek society will be used for the good of the Greek economy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed 2.5 plus 1 within the Eurogroup as a solution. 2.5 plus 1 is to reduce the primary surplus after 19 to 2.5% and 1% to go to growth. Since Mr Shoeble tells us that the issue is not debt, but is growth, what better than a compromise proposal, which says that the primary surpluses will be reduced after 1918 to 2.5% and that 1% will be used by agreement with the institutions, only for small and medium-sized enterprises? That would have a double profit. On the one hand, it would be easier to reach the 2.5% target, because you would have more growth, but, be careful, it would be easier to reach the 3.5% target. Because investors and economic agents look forward. And if they see in the front that there will be tax relief after 19, they will change their economic decisions now. We are now going to the issue of primary surpluses after 2018, with a little more detail. I have heard with my ears that the Civic Opposition and the rest of the Opposition have been shocked by the great surpluses, firstly, and secondly, that we want to commit to future governments. I read from the first Memorandum, signed by Papaconstantinou, Venizelos, Lovertos, which says "the government's policy mix aims to create from 2014 onwards primary surpluses of over 6.0% of GDP". On page 53, they also had a chart showing the primary surplus of 2013 to 4% and 2014 to 6.7%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I read from the agreement of the Adjustment Programme, which was the basis of 2012. It says here: "After 2014, when Greece will eventually record a total deficit below the Treaty of 3% of GDP, the primary surplus is expected to remain high, though progressively..." - Imagine how high -, "it decreases to 4% in 2021 and 3.5% in 2030". That was not a commitment! It wouldn't be less than 3.5%! It'd be about 3.5%! [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. Vorides, who knows how much I appreciate him, said that it is not a question of finance, but it is not even democratically right to commit to the next government. And because I have great confidence in him, I'm sure that in the fall of 2014, when Mr. Samaras had the option of taking six months to expand the program, doggies fought to take six months and not two months, who finally left us only a month to negotiate. And when the Treasury left us with empty funds in January 2015, I'm sure - I'm cutting off someone I don't like - that he was fighting doggies. It is not right, Mr Hardouvelis, to leave the next government without funds! This is not happening in democracy! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like, Mr Dendia, to be allowed a pirate to the Communist Party of Greece, as you said in your speech. Look at what I think of committing to next governments. It's in the trunk of capitalism. In other words, the image we have on the left many times, that it is a gladiator, capital and the Right, and another gladiator, work and left is wrong. The capital gladiator what he's doing? He's trying to change the battlefield. That's the target of capitalism. To create, that is, not only profits now, not only the possibility of exploiting now, but to be able to tie up the next governments. And that's why it's too bad for the Left to be indifferent to who rules and creates positions that make it hard for the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u232	That's why they tie you in hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u233	But I don't want to be sad at Mr. Palphie for asking me another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u234	We understand your self-criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u235	But I told you. The self-criticism is practically true of the true story. I'm on it. Mr Pafilis asked, is there any serious economist - I think I don't put words in your mouth - who thinks we might have primary surpluses of 3.5% for many years? And I answered you then that's not there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u236	Why is that? With 2% of what's going to happen? Is the problem solved?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u237	We also feel betrayed by the International Monetary Fund. Because the International Monetary Fund should have the courage of its opinion. The analysis of the International Monetary Fund says - and Mrs Lagard has said so many times - that the Greek economy cannot withstand large surpluses after 2018. In fact, in a letter I have from Mrs Lagard, she says that only with heroic efforts will you reach 3.5% in 2018 and then it will be very difficult. And instead of going to the Europeans: "You invited me to help your Eurozone" and to say "I come to the party with my beliefs and my analysis" and to say "I do not come, I do not participate, if you do not take the surpluses", he asks us, as I have explained to Mr Teddy, in a question which he has asked me in detail, more measures. Such a two-front race I've rarely seen, being so fucked up on one side. Nevertheless, we consider that our proposal for 2.5% plus 1% is a proposal that can get us out of this dead end. We are telling the Europeans that the European Union, which does not decide, is in a very difficult position. People who vote populist extreme right-wing parties see a Europe that does not give solutions, but see that there needs to be a change and a different policy. We will be here as far as we can to serve from Greece with the left, with discussions with other forces, how we can change Europe. Be absolutely sure that this Europe in one or two years can be very different. We must stand up with our values, we must stand with our priorities, we must stand with our analyses, we must stand, because that is the only way we can change this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Venizele, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u241	He won't say what Mr. Chakalotos wants with incomprehensible Greek. We'll talk to math.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u242	Wait a minute. Don't make a fuss. You're welcome. I'll explain something to Mr. Venizelo. Just half an hour ago, because three or four fellow ministers mentioned their policies and results, we all agreed in the Chamber that the debate is political, that it is not personal considerations, nor is it personal ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u243	Of course it's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u244	It's in Chiefs' level and closes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u245	...and will receive an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u246	No, no. There's no answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u247	He will receive an answer to this level, mathematical, scientific level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u248	Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u249	Good, Mr. President. Cover Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u250	Prime Minister, you have the floor. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u251	Turkeys applaud Christmas!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u252	Please! Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u253	Shame on you! Feel the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u254	Be quiet, please. The mathematical limits platoon was in the context of a political controversy on the substance of the PSI and I think that Mr Venizelos is not personally affected by it at all. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u255	You fear the answer and the arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u256	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, as I listened to Mr Mitsotakis, the well-known popular story with the shepherd and the wolf came to my mind. The shepherd cried: "Wolf in sheep! Wolf in sheep!’ The whole village was collected, the wolf was nowhere. The shepherd was revoking the next day: "While in the sheep! Wolf in sheep!’ All the villagers gathered, nowhere the wolf. Twice, three times, four times. Again. In the end, from one point to the next, no one gave him any meaning to the shepherd. So will you, Mr. Mitsotakis. You'll have the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u258	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u259	Last time, in this Chamber, we voted for the 2016 budget. Your party then shouted that this budget is virtual, that the figures do not come out and that there is no way we can catch the targets. Incidentally, the International Monetary Fund itself also had the advantage of this, because you coincide with the forecasts, perhaps with the proposals. We didn't just catch the targets, but we got over them a lot. And to your great disappointment, from what I saw today, in 2016 the Greek economy not only stabilised, but returned from the second quarter at positive growth rates. In fact, the third quarter recorded an increase in gross domestic product of 1.8% of GDP, the largest from the beginning of the crisis. Let me remind you that shortly after the debate on the budget last year, you have just been elected President of the New Democracy, you have started to question directly and openly the possibility of the Greek Government closing the first and most difficult, indeed, evaluation. You were then talking about new additional measures, which are coming, for a given disaster. And then, not only were you asking for elections, before the difficult evaluation, but you have already discounted them, while you still had no time to take up your duties. Developments have made you very unequivocal. And the evaluation has closed and your undeclared desires for new measures have not been met. But you, from suffering, don't learn. You don't have brains. It's like that again. Shortly afterwards, when we closed the evaluation, you almost certain that we will not catch the revenue targets in 2016 and that the cut will be activated, even in 2016. I think you remember that. You said it as modern prophets of destruction. Of course, it wasn't all you guys were talking about. They were called and the headlines of those who are approved, otherwise, newspapers that support you and which you occasionally bring to the Step of the House and you show them to us. In the summer, I remind you of the headlines that were saying that the cutter would be activated, because we have completely failed the revenues and that we have fallen out. Ultimately, not only is the cut being activated, but we have overcompensated the target of the revenues twice, from 0.5% to 1.1%. In fact, we are overcovering targets for the second consecutive year, showing credibility in the country's public finances. So, again to your great disappointment, instead of triggering the cut, the "donor" is now being activated. We're giving instead of cutting. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I saw that today you have been caught with melancholy, he says, because we are putting the second assessment at risk. In fact, you compared two things unlikewise, because we do not share a surplus. We have a surplus of revenue in 2016 against targets, which obviously did not result from a miracle. It has come about because we are doing a very hard and intensive job in making use of the lists of tax evasion that you have never exploited, in terms of control mechanisms and smuggling, in terms of tax returns and VAT and we actually have results. That is why this was not provided for in the budget that we voted on last year, a year ago. We're sharing money that's in the Treasury. We are not cutting off government bills just before an election campaign to give targets to some of our clients, because this is an insult indeed, but to those who have suffered a total of EUR 44 billion from your own governments for five years now. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We come horizontally and anti-symmetrically, one of those with the smaller pensions to them with the largest up to 850 euros, to give 617 million. And you come today and say we put a risk on the ground. And while you actually know that it is not a surplus, but it is a surplus of revenue and so it is an extraordinary expenditure in 2016, which we can and can safely predict, before the year closes, that it will not cause a problem in the target of the surplus agreement is 0.5% of GDP, you come and tell us "better not to give". In other words, 'better you'd keep them and lose the chance' because there wouldn't be a chance after that. That's what you're telling us. I wonder what the average Greek and most importantly pensioners listening to you can understand? Obviously, what you have in mind is that we have to continue the policy, which you have followed for five years and plundered the weak social classes. So you should keep in mind, the intelligence of becoming more responsible and more serious. However, you are very concerned that we have managed, despite predictions, to bring growth for the first time in the Greek economy and to have an extremely important over-performance of the objectives, which we share with justice. And you come here and you go on the same. You tell us about destruction, you tell us about the fourth memorandum, which comes and, of course, you tell us about the elections, which, obviously, as a young Nostradamo, you have been prophesying for a year since you were elected, together with the total destruction, of course, of the country. And I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: Do you really have wondered that if you go on like this, you constantly ask for elections and prophesy catastrophes, which do not come, you are in danger of becoming graphics? I ask you: Really, after the closure of the second assessment, what are you going to say? What are you gonna ask for? Elections, of course, not by confidence, but by habit. Alas! I would therefore like you to think very carefully that the Greek people have given us the great responsibility to get the country out of the crisis in which you led it. And he gave us a four-year order, which we will exhaust to antenna until the last day. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The polls will be based in the country for the first time in June 2019 and will be the polls of the European elections, the municipal elections and the national elections will be held in the autumn of 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u260	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u261	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u262	In fact, you are also the new spokesman of the New Democracy, the Officerial Representation, and you say that he, who wants to run out of constitutional service, is something that you consider to be a dictator. This is your understanding of democracy! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like to point out, however, to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek people, at the end of the four-year period, will be able to judge and compare, between almost two similar times of governance, the disastrous five-year period of 2010-2015, where the PASOK first and then the New Democracy along with PASOK ruled the place, as it led to a scary warp and resulted in a 25% reduction in public wealth, almost a quarter of GDP, the collapse of unemployment from 7% to 27%, the collapse of public hospitals, the closure of schools, the collapse of social protection. So it will be able to compare this destructive five-year-old to our four-and-a-half-year term, in which society will have finally come out of the crisis and the economy from the dawn, and then we will see how much longer you will withstand, and after 2019 you will be voting against budgets for our governments' development, but also how long you will insist on a obsolete catastrophe. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let me just give some elements of reality, which, of course, are not an easy reality. We all experience it, we all know the difficulties, but of course it is not the disaster that you described, especially the ones that brought it to the place. The investments you spoke about, Mr Mitsotakis, assuming that you can bring them, because you are charming investors - forty-five years that you have ruled were years unique in the deinvestment history at the place - in 2016 they increased by 3.3%, while in the second and third quarter of 2016 we had an explosion of over 10%, while in 2017 they are expected to increase by 9.1%. The current account balance and the trade balance have been corrected in relation to the picture presented at the beginning of the crisis. The growth rates of real exports of goods and services are projected in 5.3 for 2017, while this year, a positive estimate is in line with the Commission's forecast. Tourism recorded for the second consecutive year record: over 27 million arrivals, which were unheard of in previous years. In the field of investment, more than EUR 2 billion of investment was approved under the Juncker programme, which will benefit more than a thousand four hundred Greek companies. We relaunched strategic infrastructure projects on the networks and transport, which were left in the middle and were at risk of total dismantling, despite the fact that you had carried bulldozers and trucks on the National Road to launch them, allegedly. They stayed in the middle, but now they're over. Until spring they'll be completed. We promote significant investments in the energy and transit sector and we are developing into a main energy player in the wider South-East Mediterranean region. And as far as budgetary matters are concerned, we are moving on to the third consecutive year, during which the government will achieve its objectives. The objective of the surplus of 1.75% of GDP, as provided for in the financial facility agreement for 2017, is expected to be overstated as well. The primary surplus is expected to reach 2%. This allows us, from now on, to extend, not reduce, social protection and, in particular, this protection, which is rightly one of the vulnerable social groups. We are therefore inaugurating a new tradition in Greek things. From the paradox, which we used to get used to in the years of post-population, we spend in budgets reliable and realistic assumptions. This is the true story against, of course, the success story that you celebrated, without having caught any target in the past period. While whatever financial benefits will arise, they will be transferred to social and development interventions in their own right. In the first phase, then, as we announced yesterday, a third pension of 617 million will be attributed to a million six hundred pensioners receiving pensions of less than 850 euros. And you know what? This amount is a total of 4.7 times the amount that, unfortunately, in 2016 was taken from the beneficiaries of the CSR, due to the fact that you committed yourself to the immediate cut in the CSR and we, despite the harsh negotiation, did not manage to prevent it. We share this money - and I repeat - in a scrupulous manner so that the most vulnerable of the partisans of work are the ones who will receive the largest share in this provision. In the same spirit, we have decided to suspend the increase in VAT, to maintain a stable VAT on the islands in the first line, which accept the refugee flows, the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean, affected by the prolonged refugee crisis. Does this announcement also find you opposing, Mr. Mitsotakis? Does this also put the country's course at risk? Say it loud, let our islanders hear it there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u263	Quiet, please. No questions, because answers will be induced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u264	These islands, ladies and gentlemen, are not just the borders of our country with Turkey. It is the European Union's eastern border. And this is the first line that has held up European values of solidarity and dignity. And of course, it is the least we can do to our islanders and islanders, who, with personal sacrifices at a time of economic difficulty, set the example of hospitality and solidarity, the example of humanity. Significant resources, however, are also provided for 2017 in our social policy. In the tradition of measures that have so far been taken to tackle the humanitarian crisis, we are moving towards measures that mitigate social inequalities and social exclusion. In particular, the 2017 budget provides EUR 300,000,000 additional for health and education support, EUR 760,000,000 for the implementation of the Social Solidarity Income throughout the country, EUR 250,000,000 for increasing public investment and financing of research, but also for repatriating young researchers, EUR 100,000,000 for the settlement of housing loans to poor debtors, who cannot serve their loans. Because we are obliged - particularly when unemployment remains high, despite its steady decline in the last two years - to extend a substantial indicator of social protection. With the Social Income of Solidarity, we are trying not only to provide elementary support for the most vulnerable groups, but also to improve the negotiating power of our fellow citizens, who are looking for work, highlighting the pay. Because, contrary to what you seem to think, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, you know, it is not enough to improve the figures and macroeconomic indicators. Besides, the experience of your own governments proves that this can often be the case, while people are unhappy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is possible, not only because there has been this positive shift in the economy, but mainly because there is political will and because there have been coordinated action on the question of the liquidity of the banking system, the tax criteria and incentives and investment policy. I want to be specific. We are directing the available financial instruments to targeted development actions. A financing agreement is signed in December by the European Investment Fund for the Participation Fund, the so-called 'fund of funds', which favours technologically qualified small and medium-sized enterprises. And I would like to point out how important it is for us to invest in new technologies and small and medium-sized enterprises with startups, innovation, new technologies. It's the future. There are also two new tools being activated: the entrepreneurship fund II through the EIF and the "Security Fund". These three financial instruments are expected to channel over EUR 2 billion into the real economy in the medium term. Our banking system has fully stabilised and attracts redeposits, while gradually increasing lending and begins to channel liquidity to the Greek economy. And the stabilisation of the banking system, through its recapitalisation, carried out last year, has been exemplary. It did not burden the public debt while safeguarding the interests of the public. Contrary to the corresponding efforts you have made, in the days of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and in particular, Mr Mitsotakis, when you again referred to the criminal for the Greek economy, which destroyed the insurance funds, destroyed the micrologues and at the same time led the Greek banks to this vortex of constant recapitalisations. I understand, of course, why you are doing so. The reasons are here. They're in this Chamber. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And they strongly want to take the floor, while the political leaders are speaking, but I think it does not give you any points in Greek society to speak with great words and to rejoice in the results of the PSI. In the next few months, therefore, it is expected, with the closure of the second assessment and the debt measures, that our country will join the Quantitative Relaxation programme of the European Central Bank. It is a fact that will help restore normality, also leading to the gradual removal of all restrictions on the transfer of funds. Let me remind you that, a few months ago, we voted for a truly pro-investing development law, which for the first time links investment incentives with the needs of a new production model, focusing on extroverted and innovative investments of high added value. We are also broadening the recipients of aid, unlike the past, where 44% of them were only going to 4% of firms. Because, for us, strengthening entrepreneurship cannot be regarded as a covetous money, but it is never enough for small and medium-sized enterprises that need it. Moreover, for large foreign and domestic investments over 20 million euros, 12 years of stable fiscal environment is provided for the first time in our country. We have increased, for the second consecutive year, the Public Investment Programme to the maximum extent since the beginning of the crisis, at EUR 6.75 billion, while the repayment of the government's dues, equal to 2% of GDP in 2016, and the advancement of the EDF's resources, is expected to strengthen the Greek economy in 2017, the real economy, with EUR 10 billion. And we calculate another EUR 4 billion from the late repayments, which are scheduled to take place in 2017. Overall, that is, EUR 14 billion. Here, then, is how this high growth rate is expected to come, indeed, provided for in the budget, 2.7%, for 2017 - and it is, at the same time, a prediction of all institutions, European and non-European - and how it is expected to revive the economy and create jobs, new jobs. Because this is the only way to get out of the crisis, not, that is, in words, not with promises, but with a plan, with hard work, patience, but with perseverance and, of course, with constant concern in the fair distribution of the good produced, the wealth produced. Because that, for us, means fair growth. Ladies and gentlemen, what I mentioned to you are the first samples of the country's productive reorientation, from a closed, protected model, towards an internationally competitive productive model, which will emphasise human capital and innovation. And you know, we are determined, in order to achieve this, to break the oligarchal cartel, with the privileged access to bank funding for the economic and political elites of the place, as was the case all previous years, and the years of the major growth rates, as well as the years of the crisis. It was a cartel, which was rich with public money, with credit in the name of the Greek state and now has its profits in banks abroad. And at the same time, this cartel that was getting rich, plunged the country into recession and poverty. And so alone, we believe that it can open up, in terms of justice and equality, the field for the creative forces of healthy entrepreneurship, who want to get production in their hands, create real wealth and invest in the future of the country, with respect for the forces of work and the environment. However, the biggest national objective for the place, since unemployment in the years of the destructive five-year period has gone from 7% to 27% and now it has fallen to 23% - 23%, of course - is an extremely high figure - it is nothing other than the recovery of labour and, above all, the arrest of a phenomenon of catastrophic for the future of our country, the great human resources leak, a high skilled, that is to say, of young scientists abroad. And I want to start with the second one. The first thing we tried in conditions of suffocation, when we took over governance, was to double the rate provided for in your own budget for research and innovation. And we were able to raise resources, which went to 1% of GDP from almost 0.5%, which you had, to promote research and innovation through the Public Investment Programme, through the NSRF through the European Investment Fund. I believe that our minimum debt to the future of this place is the young scientists - the most dynamic and productive part of this place, the most productive potential - to undertake the productive reconstruction of the place. And that, of course, does not happen in words only if we are able to support them in practice. And that's what we're trying to do. Of course, this has to do with the national objective of reducing unemployment. Fair growth, jobs, jobs, investment in the competitive advantages of this place, where apart from our location, which enables us to have tourism, the energy and transit hub - that is from our geographical location - it is also the human capital in which we must invest. So I was saying before that unemployment in our day was reduced from 27% to 23%. And its downward trend is expected - as all predictions say - to maintain in 2017. Since 2015, over two hundred thousand new jobs have been created, and today we have the best proportion of recruitment - redundancies over the last 15 years. Obviously, this does not mean either reassurance or susceptibility. On the contrary, it means working hard, lifting the sleeves with a plan to make the vision of fair growth as quickly as possible, which will bring jobs, reduce unemployment again in normal conditions. And a possible objective for the place is, in 2021, to have reached the average of the euro area countries at the level of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition within the awkward anti-religious rhetoric towards the government on one hand accuses us of not applying the agreement because of our left-wing ideas, on the other hand, that we accept it all, we have sold it all out and we are lost. One of us is that we are populists because we care for the poorest and we give a third pension, risking the agreement. The other thing that we've become tough memoirs. I think, however, that the most bizarre of what he says is that we are a government that has allergy to reforms, a phrase which many of the Vice-Presidents have reiterated from this step. And you say this despite the fact that not us, but the OECD itself ranked Greece first in implementing reforms and changes for 2015-2016. But, indeed, I think there is a great difference in what you think they are reforms and what we believe they are reforms. You say reforms mean anything that dismantles and demolishes social conquests, we mean reforms that modernise the state and give justice, productive impetus to the real economy. Such reforms are for us many of what we have already promoted, such as: the reform of the tax system. Enlargement of the tax base. Strengthening the collection and measures to combat smuggling, which you have constantly lifted. These measures already pay back, and that is why revenue is 6.4% above the target. The tightening of the penal framework for tax evasion and unleashing. The draft law on electronic payments, which will change the framework of trade in the market and reduce tax evasion even further. The disclosure of undeclared funds to be dealt with at last, the trafficking of black money, the modernisation of the public sector by strengthening accountability and economic efficiency. Interventions on democracy in the public sector and on its continuous quality upgrade. The introduction of modern supply and monitoring systems to the health system. Other reforms are the following: The reduction of the cost of medicines and the provision of high quality medical care for all citizens, but also for our insurers, because two and a half million fellow citizens, who, because of your policies, were unable to access the public health system after our own intervention, can now have access. The application of the minimum guaranteed income to all municipalities in the country. The social protection net for poverty reduction and social exclusion. The solution we are trying to give to the issue of red loans with a subsidy for the loan of the poorest households' loan, which successfully reconciles the priority to protect the really weak with the need to stabilise the banking system. For the first time in our country, the framework of the extrajudicial compromise has been established, allowing sustainable businesses, but facing overcharge problems, to effectively and definitively regulate all their old debts both to banks and to the public. We are therefore giving very small, medium-sized and large businesses the opportunity to look forward, contributing to the development of the country and creating employment. Last week the law on authorisations was passed. Allowance periods and bureaucratic costs to be significantly reduced. With an e-mail, a business can now be opened when it once only took three months to sign the signatures. And you know how many years we've heard that this will happen. And it never happened. Public property for the first time is not treated as a burden we have to get rid of. We upgrade public facilities and make the best use of them, often giving local government open public spaces. Because for us, the use of public property does not mean selling as much as - but upgrading and exploiting it with sustainable public revenue and partnerships with the private sector, where this can lead to mutually advantageous synergies. Finally, we are adopting a comprehensive strategic plan for the quicker and more effective functioning of the courts, where we set up a General Secretariat against Corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, as I have heard from its leader, Mr Mitsotakis, unfortunately fails to synchronize with the historical changes that the place needs and once again has no real proposal, no positive proposal. We've heard a lot of opposition corons. But counter-proposals on how otherwise the place could leave the crisis have not been heard, but we have not heard any positive proposals. Sure, you know what? The opposition corons, especially when they are heard by you, are extremely trivial, because the people you were and what you did until the day before yesterday cannot forget. And how can he take you seriously as a protest party when you protest against what you created? I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, but also of PASOK, that you have been ruling for forty years in this place. You forced the country, looted the public wealth, destroyed social cohesion, and now you're coming and swinging the finger? You're lying to us, you're telling us useless that we haven't been able to get together in a year and a half in forty years! And you are telling us that we have charged the country with negotiating. Who, really, charged the country? We were forced to take a low-priced loan to repay the debts you inherited us. In five years, in the years of the destructive five-year period, you took the public debt from 124% to 180%. Did we charge the country? You destroyed the insurance funds with the PSI, the banks, the microbiologists. You've even saved our bailouts and you have the courage to declare that we have charged the country! And while you have ruled and implemented this unprecedented social catastrophe, you then had the courage to say that the country's debt is not a problem, that debt is sustainable. Now that for the first time we have received a substantial write-down on the debt of EUR 45 billion, without any extra burdens, you come and say: 'Soon and what have you achieved? So much for the hard!'. That was easy, selfish! But if it was so self-evident, why didn't you guys ever make it, you didn't even claim it? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But you know, he's not just a brat, he's miserable. You dare not even recognise certain self-evident successes, such as the locking down of the interest rate that is becoming stable in an uncertain period before us for the global economy. But it doesn't matter that you don't recognize it. It is enough that we are recognised internationally and that gives a strong signal to the international investment community and to markets for the prospect of self-government in the country. However, you also show the same courage in terms of the issue of primary surpluses. I saw you, I saw, for the primary surpluses, and today you come here and criticize us for the summer agreement of 2015. Today you are mindful of the primary surplus of 0.5% that this agreement was saying for 2016, 1.75% for 2017 and you tell us about austerity and overtaxation budget, while everyone knows - and you very well - that if your own cumulative agreement were applied, we would have a primary surplus target of 4.5% for 2017. What would we have? A welfare budget? 4.5% is at least 8 billion euros, Mr Mitsotakis. Where would you get that from? You'd cut them out of the trees! Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed hypocritical for New Democracy to refer to the issue of primary surpluses. And I want to repeat what the Minister of Finance said before. The first agreement provided for primary surpluses of more than 5%. The second deal over 4%. In particular, it predicted 4.5% for the coming year, in 2017, and over 4% for a very long period of time. I would really like to ask you: you are constantly saying that the 2015 elections were the ones that cut the country's course towards the growth of 3.5%. How can it go hand in hand with a growth of 3.5% with a primary surplus of 4.5%? As there was no success story in 2014, when you decided to throw on the rocks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u265	Please, be quiet! The question is rhetoric, as a number of rhetorical questions have been asked before. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, don't get rid of it and don't answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u266	It's obvious he's asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u267	Not even self-evident. The self-evident things are for everyone, alas! It's part of the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask what is self-evident and what is self-evident, which they have been governing for five years, these self-evident ones could neither do nor ask them. And now it's bothering them to hear the obvious. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So the question is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek people have memory and cannot accept crocodile tears about high primary surpluses when you have agreed and signed surpluses of 6%, 5% and 4% for a long period of time. Our intention, ladies and gentlemen, is the second assessment to close as quickly as possible in order to prepare for our gradual exit to the markets, from the beginning of 2017. We come to the negotiating table with clear positions and without regularization. Greece will complete the agreement in full and in full, but will not in addition implement austerity measures and will not accept intervention on the labour market, which put it outside the European acquis. I think that the European partners should be clearly placed on this social issue in the area of industrial relations. For our Government, this is a clear matter. There is no acceptable framework for labour relations in Greece outside the European acquis model. I know that in this position the majority of our partners, but, I would say, the European institutions are with us, because the European institutions are bound by the European acquis. The International Monetary Fund, of course, is well known not to be very touched by this European acquis. He wouldn't have to. The European Union and its institutions, however, are the ones that must set the clear limits. And I am sure they will. From there on, I think the International Monetary Fund should also be given the courage to give its opinion. He clearly says whether he wants to stay or wants to leave Europe. However, the New Democracy must do the same before the International Monetary Fund. Will you finally tell us your opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u269	Elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u270	In his speech, Mr Mitsotakis, besides elections, of course, which he has been constantly saying for a year, said that the New Democracy - indeed, he remembered Kazantzakis to say that, could not say it himself, in his own words, he remembered the words of Kazantzakis - is the culmination of responsibility. And I would really like to ask myself, since it is the sideline of responsibility, will you continue for a long time to hide behind the positions of the International Monetary Fund? What's your point of view? What's your opinion? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Go out with boldness and responsibility to the Greek people - the moments are critical - and say your opinion. The question we ask you is a clear question. Will you join us in striving to activate collective bargaining? Or are you going to be identified once again with the toughest, rival views that have been heard at the negotiating table? I would like to say another thing about this. You said in earlier statements, Mr Mitsotakis, that they are left-wing ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u271	Just a minute, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I don't want to refer to names. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u272	The defence of the European acquis, Mr Mitsotakis, is not left-wing ideas. After all, I would like to remind you that on this issue in the summer of 2015 I signed a joint declaration with President Juncker on the return to our country of collective bargaining, which your own governments consented to be abolished. And, of course, President Juncker doesn't think he's possessed by left-wing ideas. It belongs to the European People's Party, not to our own political family. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we now have experience of negotiations, and that is why we are not concerned. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] We are indeed in the face of irrational demands, just as happened last May. But I would like to remind you that last May, despite the fact that you and then hid behind the International Monetary Fund, despite the fact that, and then, you did not support the government's attempt not to impose additional measures of EUR 4 billion, we proceeded without being imposed. We believe that it will also happen now, because we and our partners know, above all, that the Greek question has grown and can be brought to an end soon if all sides show a minimum will of goodwill. And I believe that this is now a one-way road, especially if we consider the new and particularly unstable European and global environment that is being formed. Mr President, I should like to refer very briefly to this environment, the unstable one, because Greece is for the first time at the threshold of recovery, but at the same time it is also facing very serious challenges, which we must face with coolness and determination. Over the last two years we have managed to make a countable and important country, a fortress of stability in a widerly destabilised region, but I would add something more: we have managed to become a beacon of universal values: democracy, solidarity and the defence of human rights. And you know, it didn't happen by accident. This has been done both by the attitude of the authorities that we have shown in managing a pan-European and global crisis, such as the refugee crisis and our active and multi-dimensional foreign policy, which we have managed to regain, our country, Greece, a protagonist and not a motto in our sensitive region. This, after all, proves that in such a short period of time, so many and so important leaders have never rushed home. And they rushed to strengthen the role and presence of Greece as a force for peace and stability, as well as a force for defending values, by the leaders of the South, who came here to Athens to send a message of the need to end austerity, to Pope Francis, who came to know the Greeks' attitude to refugees and from President Putin to President Obama, who confirmed the crucial geopolitical role of Greece, but also the only, I would say, where great values were born and remain alive in the daily struggle of our people. But in the next few days - and let me refer to this - it is not about economic matters, but it is about critical negotiations that we have before us, this time not about the economy, but about the crucial issue that has shaken the place forty-two years now, the Cyprus issue - we have in front of us the intensification of the final phase of the Cyprus talks. I should like to take this opportunity to emphasise once again my support for President Anastasiades, with whom we have excellent cooperation, but also my support, my encouragement rather than for the leader of the Turkish Cypriot community, Mustafa Akinji. Because I believe that for the first time we have a positive juncture, we have two leaders who want to solve the problem. And that should be understood well by our neighbours in Turkey. The ongoing statements of questioning the international treaties and international legality do not help at all to create a positive climate for resolving the Cyprus problem. My view is that they are not helping Turkey at all. Greece is not a small country that will be afraid, nor will it react spasmically to similar challenges. Greece and Cyprus, not forgetting this, are countries of the European Union. Greece's borders with Turkey are at the same time Europe's borders with Turkey. We therefore insist that we support the positive agenda in both Euro-Turkish and Greek-Turkish relations. I would say, in fact, that we are one of the most enthusiastic supporters of the positive agenda, when almost all over Europe is unfortunately a negative climate. We are constantly inclining the hand of friendship and cooperation, but at the same time we are not going to back on the issues of principles arising out of international law. Cyprus is not a Greek-Turkish difference. It is an international problem which has arisen forty-two years since the illegal invasion and occupation of the northern part of the island. If, therefore, we want a sustainable solution, this cannot provide for the continuation of an anachronistic framework of guarantees, nor for the presence of the troops on the island, and indeed for the permanent presence of the island. On the contrary, it must provide for their departure. That position, I would say, and I invite you to agree with it. Because, okay, you are in favour of responsibility, but constantly saying "Cyprus decides Greece is a cliché" is a cliché, we all know that to say it. At the critical moment, however, we must say our opinion, say whether we are in favour of a solution, say what we will do to ensure that we see it and, above all, to see it together, I would say, and, as a national line, we welcome our position and our attitude to critical intensive talks and invite our neighbours... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Unfortunately, you don't even have the ability in these critical issues to have a sobriety and a temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u273	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u274	I would therefore invite you - and this invitation is obviously addressed to the Party of Officerial Response, but also to all the parties - to have the opportunity in the next few weeks to shape our national position on this crucial issue and to call on our neighbours to consider the historical change that will take place in our relations - but also in tomorrow of the next generations, in our countries, in our own peoples, in our region - a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem. We should call on the neighbors to lower the tone and to sit at the negotiating table, with reason and wisdom. And reasonable and wise means that the occupation in Cyprus cannot be continued and only in this way will the golden incision be found for a fair and sustainable solution. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, 2017 will be a landmark year for the Greek economy. With the closure of the second evaluation, most of the programme will have been completed. The country will be ready, having recovered its autonomy, to move forward with more optimistic steps in the next day, with a new worthy productive model, leaving behind harmful attitudes of the past, creating conditions for a strong and sustainable economy capable of meeting the challenges of a global economy. An economy that will fairly allocate the production product of the country, with a strong indicator for the socially weaker. I believe that this is a national check, which we must serve to the end. And I believe that this shares - critically, bitterly, disappointment, but it shares - the great majority of the Greek people who are following us. And I am sure that at the end of this critical and difficult path to satisfy, to be able to justify the desires but also the sacrifices of this large majority, a majority for which we are struggling and will continue to fight. 2017 will be a landmark year for exiting the country from the crisis. And this budget is the first budget of optimism, development and recovery of the Greek economy. So I call on you, with the heart open, to vote for him and to move on together in the next day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget for 2017 has come to an end. I would like you to hear something because it matters. It is a success of the procedure concerning the behaviour of Members of all the parties and of the parliamentary representatives and in particular of the officials of the House. For the first time, in addition to the eight general rapporteurs and the fifteen special rapporteurs, eight parliamentary representatives and two hundred colleagues spoke, namely, a total of thirty-two colleagues, except that the Vice-President of the Government spoke, seventeen Ministers, nine Deputy Ministers and six Deputy Secretarys, i.e. thirty-three members of the Government, and eight Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups. In other words, everyone spoke for seven minutes without time being cut, as we usually do for five or six minutes. [[Applause]] The meetings lasted fifty-seven hours, and I think that the opportunity has been given to the crucial issue of the budget, but also for all other issues, to raise views and to oppose them. I would ask Vice-President Kourakis very much to speed up the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget for the financial year 2017 is adjourned and we will proceed to the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Rule 123(6), the budget shall be voted on by roll-call vote, both at the same time and with separate lists and voters, for the revenue and expenditure of each Ministry. As is well known, all ministries only have costs, except the Ministry of Finance, which also has revenues with the budget. Therefore, a special vote will be taken on the revenues of the budget, and for all the Ministries a vote will be taken on their expenses. A separate vote will also be taken on the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic. The state budget includes the budget of Parliament, which will not be taken into account again in this House, as the Parliament's budget, as approved by the House at its meeting of KT/16-11-2016, is mandatory enforcer under the Rules of Procedure and has been registered without any change in the general budget of the State, Rule 120(6) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. As mentioned above, the roll-call vote will take place, as imposed by the Rules of Procedure, at the same time. In other words, when Members are speaking on the list of Members, the voters appointed for the expenses of each Ministry, the expenses of the Presidency of the Republic and the revenue of the budget will take note of the vote given by each Member on the separate list of the Ministry for which they were designated. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the expenses of each of the Ministry and of the Presidency of the Republic, say 'NEI'. Those who do not accept them say 'OH.' Those who want to answer "NAI" for some ministries or "NOI" respectively clarify it in the language of their name. I would like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which state their vote on the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Members of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy, will be invited to join the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask colleagues in the first six rows to give their seats to the voters. Please come to the voters: A) For budgetary revenue, Mr Dimitrios Vettas and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas. B) For the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic, Mr Santer, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, For the Ministry of Interior, Mr Alexander Meikopoulou and Athanasios Kavada. For the Ministry of Economy and Development, Mr Efstathos Giannakisdis and Mr Konstantinos Vlasis. For the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Marios Katsis and Mr. Georgios Georgios. For the Ministry of National Defence, Mr. Asterios Kastoris and Stergios Giannakis. For the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, etc. Life of Lebanon and Konstantinos Karagkounis. For the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, etc. Constantine Morfidis and Georgia Martinou. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Themistollis Mumulides and Konstantinos Karamanlis. For the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, etc. George Ursouzidis and Maria Antoniou. For the Ministry of Finance, Mr. George Pallis and Mr. Yoyakas. For the Ministry of Health, Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis and Andreas Katsaniotis. For the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides and Anastasios Disakakis. For the Ministry of Culture and Sport, Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis and Dimitrios Kyriazidis. For the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr. Panos Skouliakos and Christos Dimas. For the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, etc. Olympia Tyloridou and George Kasapides. For the Ministry of Migration Policy, Mr. Maria Triantafel and Christos Kelles. For the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Eleni Aloonitou and Christos Boukokouros. For the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, etc. Catherine Iglezi and George Stylos. For the Ministry of Tourism, Mr. Georgios Psychogius and Light Arabatzis. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of this point. In voting, do not leave because after the roll-call vote for the Ministries and the Presidency of the Republic, a vote will be followed by a vote on public investment budgets and attached budgets, as well as on the budgets of the decentralised administrations and regional ministries referred to in Article 2 of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. I would ask my fellow Members on the list to proceed with the explanation of the names of colleagues, and Mrs Anastasia Gara will repeat the "NAI" or "THEI" of all colleagues who vote. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u277	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned on the state budget for the financial year 2017. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the protocols on p. 340.1 to 340.20]] The main voters are requested to take the count of votes and to sign the relevant protocols, which will receive service actors, so that we can then announce the result of the vote and be registered in the Minutes. [[COMMUNICATION]] In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, in order to shorten the time of the meeting, if you have no objection, I would ask you to proceed with the vote with a view to the budget of public investment and of attached budgets and the budgets of decentralised administrations and regional ministries. Does the House accept the budget for public investment and the annexed budgets for the financial year 2017? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House therefore admitted. Does Parliament also ask: Does it accept the regular budget of the decentralised administrations and regional agencies of the ministries of the financial year 2017? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House therefore admitted. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau received letters from colleagues, Mr Anna Michel Asmakopoulou and Mr Andreas Michaelides, informing us that they will not be present in today's roll-call vote and giving us their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. A total of two hundred ninety-eight (298) MPs voted. Budget revenues were accepted by a hundred and fifty two MPs (152), while forty - six (146) MPs voted against them. The expenses of the Ministries: Home, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism were accepted by a hundred and two (152) MPs, while a hundred forty-six (146) MPs voted against them. The costs of the Presidency of the Republic were accepted by hundreds of fifty two MPs (152), and hundreds of forty-six (146) MPs voted against them. The voting protocols are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u280	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Privatization of the State Budget for the financial year 2017’ was accepted, in a single debate, under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget was closed with the vote which took place and the statement of the result. I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 6 December 2016, Wednesday 7 December 2016, Thursday 8 December 2016, Friday 9 December 2016 and Saturday 10 December 2016, including the discussion and the vote of the budget for the financial year 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u282	The minutes of the meetings of Tuesday 6 December 2016, Wednesday 7 December 2016, Thursday 8 December 2016, Friday 9 December 2016 and Saturday 10 December 2016 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-10-S1-commons.u283	With the consent of the House at 22.31 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, December 12, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
