ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Accreditation of the quorum shall begin. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003, "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable: First, on 29-6-2016, criminal case-law concerning the Ministers for Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction with responsibility for civil protection. Second, on 19-7-2016: Criminal case law concerning the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos, and former Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Simeon Kedicoglou. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, and the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. A criminal court order concerning the former Minister for Health, Mr Spyridonas-Adoni Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law: 'Confiding of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 July 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. Because it is also on the amendments, do you agree - the Minister accepts it - that the Minister should first speak in order to place himself on what amendments he makes, so that the rapporteurs and Parliamentary representatives may know in the first place, so that they can be placed? The amendments, of course, which are two - three other ministers. It goes without saying that after the rapporteurs and specialist speakers have been placed, the relevant ministers will come and, for three or five minutes, present and defend their amendments. So you agree with this process? So, mostly, when the Minister starts? Because he has to announce, from what he has told me, changes to the draft law, which are many, from comments made by colleagues, from government MPs and from opposition to the Standing Committee. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u3	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u4	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, this meeting had been arranged from the outset on Thursday, and the previous sitting on electoral law would have been over. Today we're called in very few hours, until 17.00 this afternoon, which, if I'm not mistaken, starts...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u6	Wholesale there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u7	We are therefore called upon to discuss a bill which has been discussed in detail in committee. It has too many articles and very important issues. There are also six ministerial amendments and many parliamentary amendments. So we cannot understand the reason for the urgency. Why can't this conversation go next week too, and discuss it in detail? In fact, I say that in the committees there was a consensual climate in the debate, which will spoil when there is a debate in which we cannot actually, because we have little time, put ourselves on all these issues. So in the light of the change that has taken place and is being discussed this afternoon in the electoral law, and we have very few hours, I would like the ministers to accept, even now, the process of quietly going to debate next week a bill in which I think we can find a lot of things to discuss and improve it, even in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u8	Written your opinion. I don't think the ministers will withdraw it. However, I would remind you that yesterday there was also a debate in the Conference of Presidents about the climate you said, but that is the decision. So don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, what if we don't have time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Loverdo, I appreciate that in eight hours' time, because I saw eight people also spoke to the committee. Come on, that's twice the number today. Time, etc. I think we'll make it. The Minister will open the meeting to say the changes and to say which amendments he is accepting. Five minutes is enough, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u11	I will try, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u12	There's gonna be a tolerance. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the very interesting debate that we had in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence and the discussions we had with parties and colleagues, most of the views on changes to the draft law have been accepted. As we will also be taking a number of amendments and during the debate I think we will be able to agree on a number of the points you have proposed. I would first like to read, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, the legislative improvements relating to comments made by Members from both the government and the opposition, which I believe will enable us to address this draft law by the Ministry of National Defence with an consent policy on all sides. So we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u14	After reading, testify them to photocopy and share.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u15	Yes, Mr. President. I have already shared them with the parties since yesterday in order to have an update before the debate, but I shall read them officially, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The first relates to the title of the draft law, which is: 'Consolidation of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions'. This is done, as you can see from other ministries, and the title is changed. With regard to the observation that I have received from Mrs Kanelle from the Communist Party of Greece, we are changing paragraph 3 of Article 2 and the words 'it is possible to define the conservation' are replaced by the words 'determined the conservation'. With regard to the observations made by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, the Association of Centrals, the Independent Greeks, the PASOK, the Golden Dawn and the Members of the SYRIZA, Article 11(4) as last subparagraph adds: ‘At the meeting of the SAM, the director of the relevant fund is involved in the provision of an opinion, in so far as the exploited properties belong to the ETH, the TSF, the TSF and the President of the relevant fund, in so far as the properties are owned by the Equity Fund, the Equity Fund and the Equity Fund.’ In paragraph 11 of Article 11, ‘which is posted on the Office’s official website, it shall provide the Office with the mandate’ shall be replaced by ‘determines the TECs, TECs and TECs and shall make a proposal to the Military Equity, Equity and Equity Fund’. I have received the remark here, which has been made, that is to say, that the shareholders decide to make the final decision on their boards, as all my colleagues have asked. In Article 18, in addition to paragraph 10, new paragraph 8 of Article 24 of L.383/2010, the word ‘minimum’ and the words ‘regardless of empty organic positions’ shall be deleted. And that is a request from fellow Members. In paragraph 26, after the words 'Superior Military Schools of Staff', the words 'as well as those from the category of permanent volunteers under Law 445/1974 and the permanent volunteers' have been added, concerning volunteers, put this in place by a number of colleagues - of 'Law 705/1977'. It is about equality between men and women, as you have put it in Parliament. Article 26 shall number the only paragraph of Article in paragraph 2 and add a new paragraph, as requested, at the end of paragraph 1 of Article 12 of Law No 445/1974 (A'160), as amended by paragraph 3 of Article 3 of Law No 2109/1992. The text is added as follows: ‘In particular, the Permanent Servants, Kesillers and Smiles who have graduated from Higher Military Schools of Staff for a three-year term of office may be promoted if they have completed at least two years’. It is what we have asked to reduce by one year. In Article 34, the numbering of the single paragraph of Article shall be deleted. In Article 36(3), at the end of the first period, the end shall be deleted and the words ‘without prejudice to Article 41(5) of this Law’ shall be added. Mr. Loverde, you asked for this. We're accepting it. In Article 41, paragraph 5 is added as follows: ‘The auditors of the Internal Affairs Unit shall be prohibited as members of the administrative or supervisory boards of legal persons falling within or supervised by the Ministry of Justice. The same prohibition applies to economic inspectors - officers of the Court of Auditors and the Drought Army, as well as to economic officers of the Hellenic Navy and the Air Force for the time they serve as economic inspectors in the sectors concerned." This concerns the observation that you have made that the auditor will also be inspected. In Article 47(10), the words ‘they have been placed out of organic positions in the last crisis before the date of entry into force of this Law’ shall be replaced by ‘from 24 September 2010’ and the words ‘they shall be re-established by a Presidential Decree in the Staff Regulations before the date of their last judgement and shall be deemed exceptionally within two months of the adoption of that decree’ shall be replaced by ‘these acts shall be adopted exceptionally within two months of its submission and the Presidential Decrees and other administrative acts necessary for the implementation of the first subparagraph’. In paragraph 11 of Article 47, after the words ‘Second Military Staff Schools’, the words ‘and the category of permanently recruited volunteers under Law 445/1974 and permanent volunteers under Law 705’ are added. And this concerns women who did not have the same treatment as men's officers. Legislative improvements in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill. Legislative improvements to the explanatory memorandum referred to in Article 10. The explanatory statement on the article reads as follows: ‘This article provides that the mission of the new service will only be to exploit the real estate of the National Defence Fund, the National Fleet Fund and the Air Defence Fund for the benefit of the Armed Forces and their officers, as well as the real estate of the Equity Fund and the Equity Fund for Navy and Air Force, for the benefit of their shareholders’. It is now clear what colleagues have asked for. ‘From this property, it is not possible to use the property of the TEC, TEC and TEC that has been allocated to fulfil operational needs in a time of peace or war, whether considered necessary to fulfil such needs, as a fundamental condition is not to change the use of property deemed necessary to defend the national defence and security. Also, the use of real estate which has been made available to the funds through a donation or a covenant must be in line with the will of the donor or the holder, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. The development of the real estate is aimed at gaining revenues to improve the working and living conditions of the military personnel of the Armed Forces, as well as covering part of the financial needs of the Ministry, in particular as regards improving the infrastructure to meet the operational needs of the Armed Forces.’ These are the clarifications requested by colleagues and also entered in the explanatory statement so that there is no difference. In Article 11, in the recital in paragraph 11 of that Article, the words ‘completed by a decision of the LDC’ are deleted. It is completed by decision of the equity funds. In the explanatory statement to paragraph 10 of that Article and in particular to the first sentence, ‘they shall be considered to be protagonists irrespective of empty organic positions’ shall be replaced by ‘if they are deemed to be protagonists, they shall be promoted’. Where, in recital 26 of that article, the '1989-90' and '1991-92' numbers are given in pairs, it is correct to comment by colleagues - '1988-89' and '1990-91' respectively. In paragraph 26, a new subparagraph is added: ‘The provision takes over its regulatory range and comes from the category of permanently recruited volunteers under Law 445 and permanent volunteers’. These are, as you have noticed, and changes have been made. In other words, I don't think I need to go on. They've shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u16	No, we're just waiting for Mr. Kaloger to sign them to be filed in the Minutes, no matter what they've been given to the heads of the parties, the rapporteurs, to be distributed later. Now tell us the ministerial amendments you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u17	I shall speak, Mr President, both of the ministers and of the Members of Parliament, so that Members can have a picture of everything. Themes were raised by many colleagues on the career development of the MDGs, the MacArthys Volunteers. Indeed, there is a matter. I mean, to a long-term volunteer who's going to study and get graduates and postgraduate degrees, we can't cut him the possibility of being promoted to an officer. We are therefore committed to discussing this with the Deputy Minister, both with the military leadership and with the opposition, and to regulating this in a fair way, but it can also be covered by economic needs. If we accepted the amendments as they had been tabled - and indeed the Deputy Minister had proposed them - they would have a cost of EUR 40 million for this year's budget, which we cannot deal with. It was mainly economical, and we cannot solve it at this time. We are, however, committed in public that both the career development of the Long-Term Volunteers and the issue of the GMM officers in respect of antiquity and of the SSCR 1990 classes for their careers and insurance where there is an injustice and for the possibility of staying until the fifty-eighth year of all Armed Forces' officials who want it, in the next few months and, in any case, before the end of the period we will deal with them. These are just matters, which concern too many officials of the Armed Forces and we will resolve them. We are opening a dialogue with both the military leadership and the political parties. We want you, ladies and gentlemen, to participate in this dialogue so that we can find solutions. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, we have an amendment on the HEIs referred to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr Minister, please read the general number so that colleagues can follow it. Is 558 Mr. Vitch and Mr. Friend's?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Mr. Vitsa and Mr. Friends. It concerns the establishment of a named seat, which will bear the name of the National Defence General Staff. The amount of the expenditure is EUR 26,000 for the first implementation of the regulation. We are accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u20	The last one, 566, why do you have two. Is that what you're accepting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u21	Yeah, we're making it acceptable. The amendment by Mr Kourublis and Mr Toskas, which is to amend Article 119 of Law 4249/2014 with the regime governing the voluntary civil protection system, is an amendment to be developed by Mr Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u22	This has been accepted in committee, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u23	He's late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u24	It has been accepted from what I see here in the Standing Committee, so you do not have to. He's entered as an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u25	The regulation - the opinion of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction - that is Amendment 549 with a special reference to 44 - will be developed by the ministers. We're accepting it. We told her we had no choice. The possibility of reintegration into permanent or productive school classes from which students at the Icaron School who fail in the flight test were deleted, 559 by specialty 50, is also accepted. The amendment under number 565 and a special 52 supplementing the provisions of Article 7c of Law 3691/2008 concerning the staff and the operation of units of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing authority is also accepted. As regards the amendments tabled by fellow Members of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras, in relation to the Elefsinas Shipyards and Mr Loverdou, we want to accept this issue by the end of the vote. But I would ask you to put this together with the Deputy Minister in the next few hours, discuss it together and agree to the parties so that we can accept an amendment, but to accept it with a text that will be agreed by the nominees, together with the Deputy Minister, because a solution needs to be found for the Elefsis shipyards. With regard to Amendment No 550, and with regard to Amendment No 45 by SYRIZA colleagues for the volunteers of Air Force, we have a legislative intervention. We're actually going to accept it, but I'm going to ask you to match it to the Secretary of State to include it. Finally, there is an amendment tabled by Mr Pimenta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u26	Not just me, all colleagues with Mr Davaki first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u27	All colleagues, all right. Mr. Kyriazidis, Mr. Kavadas, Mr. Voridis, Mr. Vlassi, Mr. Dimas. I saw the subject. We have looked into the issue of the defects of disabled persons who have been placed in warfare. You're right. Because while the issue had been settled, the restoration of these people had not essentially been arranged to take a car. I'm accepting it. I think we'll be able to get her into the bill. I would only ask you to discuss the wording with the legal advisers so that they can fully cover up to their colleagues. Other amendments I have seen and in the press I have not taken them. There is, for example, an amendment to tobacco growers tabled by Mr Demetrios Kammenos. It is a fair request, but you realise that I cannot accept an amendment if there is no cost attendance from the General Accounting Office of the State. First of all, I would like to say that we are positive, but we cannot accept an amendment unless it has been signed by the Ministry of Finance. I would therefore ask that you, by the end of the meeting, discuss this with the Ministry of Finance, with the General Accounting Office of the State. If there is consensus, we have no objection. On the question of the trade union raised by Mrs Bakoyannis, she has changed. We changed the wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u28	How did it change? There are no texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u29	I have also made a change in the committee. He's entered as an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u30	Article 50.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u31	Mr Pinheiro said that the amendment on trade unionism did not change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u32	In the written text, we have not seen any change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u33	It's Article 50.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u34	Added as Article 50 and at your disposal. There is no amendment. It comes as an article 50 with the recasting we agreed on. It's in the texts they've shared. Article 50 states that the role of the observer in the Transition Councils will be clearly laid down. I accept, in other words, the remarks which have been made. There can be no participation in the Transitions Council. It was accepted by the Members who signed the amendment. We've reprinted it as Article 50. See her again. If there are any other comments, we will discuss them by the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u35	The distributor doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u36	I'm in what I have in my hands. To be distributed, Mr President, as has been recast.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u37	Okay. It's inside the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u38	There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u39	How isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u40	In the text that I see at the moment, the bill ends in Article 43.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u41	If they exist on the other side of the Chamber, we don't have it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u42	So look, ladies and gentlemen. I know there are some reservations. I think that the way Article 50 has been formulated can be accepted and it will be important to accept all the Members of the Greek Parliament. Mr President, thank you very much. I apologize for the time. I repeat that the Ministry of National Defence during the debate is open to comments by colleagues now that we are also listening to the speeches by the rapporteurs. If there are any other changes that need to be made in order to obtain consensus, we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u43	Good. So, with these clarifications, we should start with the majority rapporteur, Mr George Nzimani. Please open the electronic registration so that all colleagues want to start their registrations. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all good morning. Secondly, I would like to say that we do not forget that as yesterday we had forty-two years ago the invasion of Attila in Cyprus. This invasion took the coup by the junta of Athens to destroy the Republic of Cyprus. The result of the invasion was the illegal occupation of 40% of the island, which continues today, the refugee of the Cypriot people, dead and a thousand six hundred nineteen missing. Our country has continued its efforts to resolve Cyprus at all levels for a free and independent Cyprus that operates within the framework of the UN and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law is to be passed in plenary session: 'Adjustment of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence'. The draft law aims to: firstly, to regulate basic needs for the organisation and structure of the Armed Forces by setting up new services and merging others. Secondly, regulating security and armament issues for the Armed Forces. Thirdly, the improvement of a significant number of career arrangements, hierarchy, development and service use of personnel of the Armed Forces. The whole of the arrangements contribute to increasing efficiency and efficiency, improving the working conditions of the staff, and creating the conditions for cooperation with other public bodies. The draft law is structured in seven chapters. The first chapter of the law contains four articles, which abolish after a two-year transition phase the existing Military Staff Schools and creates a Single School of Permanent Civilian Air Force. According to the design in the DMYA, all three directions are expected to be in line with the qualifications of the schools that are being abolished. The new school will join the upper level of higher education. Her duration will be three years and her graduates will be called permanent flocks. This regulation attempts to upgrade the training provided to the Air Force Staff Officers, save staff, material and economic resources, unity of administration, and develop a single spirit for civilian Air Force officers. The second chapter contains four articles regulating the establishment and operation of a new service at the CEDEFOP, the MOMCA, the Unit of Studies and Construction, which will aim, on the one hand, at cooperation with bodies of the wider public sector in the preparation of studies and the construction of projects and the use of resources and personnel of the Armed Forces and, on the other, at coordination of the above instruments and of the staff concerned in the fulfilment of the projects and studies undertaken. The project is expected to facilitate the implementation of projects of local interest, in particular in border and remote areas, where it becomes difficult to fulfil basic needs of local society through private initiative. Mozambique may also be included in the civil protection plans for natural disasters and in exceptional cases of urgent national need, on the basis of a decision of the CSCE to undertake studies and the construction of projects. The third chapter includes eight articles regulating the establishment and operation of a new department of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the City of Property of the Armed Forces, which will assume the role of economic and legal support with exclusive responsibility for the optimal use of the property of the three Armed Forces' Funds not used for military purposes, namely the National Defence Fund, the National Defence Fund and the National Fund for the benefit of the Armed Forces and their officers, as well as the real estate of the Military Equity Funds, the Navy and the Air Force for the benefit of their shareholders. The use shall be made by means of an electronic public auction. The purpose of the arrangement is the continuous nature of the financial inputs resulting from the exploitation of the value of the real estate to cover the fixed and continuous needs of the Armed Forces and not their single exploitation and the resulting decontamination of the funds from their assets. The provisions of this chapter aim at organising the management of the Ministry's own financial resources in the best way possible. The creation of the new flexible service entails maintaining the funds referred to above rather than abolishing and merging them into a new legal entity governed by public law, the Single National Defence Fund, as provided for in Article 14 of Law 4250/2014. The fourth chapter includes fourteen articles regulating career issues, service developments, transfers, transfers, hierarchy and the use of military personnel of the Armed Forces in order to better manage this staff to meet the operational needs of the Missing Army, the Navy and the Air Force. A large part of the provisions concern amendments to Law 3883/10, which is the basic law on careers and development of armed forces officers and the provisions of Law 2439/1996, which currently apply to specific categories of military personnel. In addition, a significant part of the provisions of this Chapter relate to the amendment of the v. This is the special legal framework governing officers of special permanent staff pilots flying within the Armed Forces. All provisions shall be in line with the needs of the General Staff and the rationalisation of the terms of service of development, hierarchical and service use of the personnel of the Armed Forces. An important regulation in this chapter is Article 17, setting out the terms of office of the AU/GFCM and the Heads of General Staff of the branches in three and two years respectively with the possibility of an extension of one year. This contributes to the undisturbed fulfilment of the duties and missions of the military leadership of the Armed Forces within a reasonably stable timeframe for the proper preparation and implementation of their planning. The fifth chapter contains four articles regulating matters relating to the conclusion of contracts, supplies, services or works of the Ministry of Defence in the field of defence and security. In particular, Article 31 regulates follow-up FOS issues and legislative change takes place concerning the division of General Staff of the Armed Forces Branches instead of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment of the Ministry of National Defence as responsible for carrying out all the procedures necessary for the conclusion and execution of contracts, supplies and services, the estimated value of which, excluding VAT, is below the threshold from which European Union legislation applies. With this arrangement, the General Staff are facilitated in fulfilling their needs to supply defence material and provide services to the three branches of the Armed Forces, so that they operate incompletely, under full operational readiness. In addition, the flexicurity required shall be ensured in order to meet those needs directly and effectively, without circumventing the principles of transparency and rational management of the State budget. Article 32 provides for an important innovation that serves the speed in the implementation of defence material procedures by entrusting, by law, the Heads of the General Staff of the Armed Forces with the power to take a decision, the activation of the assigned to the three-year rolling defensive sub-programmes procurement programme in accordance with the European Union Guidelines. In order to ensure the necessary transparency, it is further laid down that the relevant Parliamentary Committee of Parliament is informed every six months for these sub-programmes. In addition, Articles 33 and 34 introduce arrangements for the performance of the SGM of the compromise product with counterparties of military equipment and for the simplification and acceleration of the procedure for the use of military equipment provided for in Article 107 of Law 3978/2011, which is characterised as non-operationally necessary. The sixth chapter contains eleven articles governing individual issues of interest of the Ministry of Education, most important of which are: Ensure the sustainability of the Special Accounts of the Armed Forces Sectors and avoid overall the creation of deficits. The temporary reintroduction of the supervision of the operation of UCLAF by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of National Defence for one to two years, in order to resolve time issues. The harmonization of the method of holding the wages of soldiers who have reached a fair holiday in proportion to the rates applicable to civil servants. The regulation of issues of the Ministry's Internal Audit Unit, as well as the powers to monitor the disciplinary procedures of the Armed Forces carried out by the College of Public Administration Auditors. The extension of the existing possibility of concluding programme cooperation agreements with universities for the organisation of joint postgraduate programmes, studies, seminars, student exchanges and any other relevant activity, except for the above interclinal School of War and the School of National Defence and the Higher Technical Education Schools of the Missing Army. The regulation of military matters. Upgrade of the Mississippi Air Force School. The provision of the possibility for active officials and officers of the Armed Forces to teach in educational establishments. The seventh chapter, consisting of four Articles, contains a number of delegated provisions for the adoption of regulatory acts regulating in particular issues of previous chapters, as well as transitional and repealing provisions and the provisions of entry into force of the law. In addition, with the topology regarding the establishment of trade unions in the Armed Forces, the decision of the Ice Bay Plenary Assembly is implemented under number 3/2012 and the extension of Law 1264/1982. This amendment implements the State's obligation to support in practice the inter-class collective expression of the military officials and the protection of their individual and social rights to set up and participate actively in organisations to protect their professional interests, in the context of democratic institutions, without a right to strike. In this way, the state ensures freedom of expression, but also the representativeness of the active military forces and places those limitations, so that the activity does not exceed the limits specified by the peculiarities, missions and, in general, the national, social and supra-party nature of the Armed Forces. However, it seeks to ensure self-evident observance of discipline and all confidentiality related to the country's defence and national security and in a manner that respects the organisational hierarchical structure and operational efficiency of the Armed Forces. After all, the servants of the Armed Forces are not a special category of Greek citizens and enjoy all the individual rights provided for by the Constitution for all Greeks, with the legitimate ones under the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law achieves an economy of scale in the Armed Forces and upgrades and consolidates the training of Air Force officials. The social role of the Armed Forces is indicated. The property of the Armed Forces Funds is valued, time-consuming management issues are dealt with in terms of service matters. The term of office of the Heads of Staff and the A/HRC shall be determined with a view to the uninterrupted preparation, development and implementation of the operational planning. The flexicurity required is created to ensure that military equipment is continuously supported and that the operational preparedness of the Armed Forces is maintained at a high level. The viability of the special accounts and the solidarity of the generations of insured persons shall be sought. We are fighting bureaucracy and corruption within the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces are further democratised. To conclude, it is a draft law that tackles the points of the times and lays sound foundations for the modern operation of the Armed Forces. I think that his vote would be beneficial to our country and the worthy of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u45	Me too, because you were accurate in time. With the courtesy of both Mr Davakis and Mr Kouzis, I will give Mr Loverdos the floor, because he participates on behalf of his party in the committee of inquiry. So the records will be stopped, not after Mr. Davaki's speech, but after Mr. Loverdos's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, there are twenty-one registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u47	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I made a very brief reference yesterday to the issues that involve the country in what is happening and we are watching that they are happening in Turkey on issues of extradition. I made a report because I had to do it a day like last night, where the political news brought us concern. I contacted the Minister of National Defence, got information. Today, things seem to be, at least in relation to yesterday's report, under control, and I am given the possibility almost cold and not warmly, to make a few remarks in this Chamber on the issue of extradition and to say the views of the Democratic Alliance, addressed to the Ministers for National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the issues of the violation of the Greek legal order caused by someone who violates our borders and enters our country - and for which offences will be brought to trial and we are already following this issue in Alexandroupolis - there are also issues of the extradition of this not calling for political asylum, but for which extradition is being sought by another state. And the request for extradition is not a telephone request, but there are specific diplomatic procedures. The Hellenic Republic receives it from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then Greek justice handles it during the major part of the whole process. It is therefore a political process which starts on the diplomatic path and is almost completed by the three-member court of appeal, which decides to accept or reject the request for extradition. Because I remember, on several occasions, the whole process has been unfolded - I have also been a witness too many times in these trials - and I remember the state's ability to give a positive answer to the court, judging a number of important issues to refuse. On a negative decision of the Court, the Greek State has no jurisdiction. This is the process, as regulated by International Law, as regulated by our Constitution, but also our fairness, our common law, and you were, if there were, if any, bilateral agreements. This means that the evaluation will be made to a large extent by justice, listening to arguments. And dear Mr. Vitsa, Deputy Minister of Defence, I would like to tell you that in our opinion you made a mistake about the need for speed. I heard you. No reference should be made and no reference should be made to us from one point to the next, because in what we are doing, the rights that the parties will use will be exploited by the lawyers. This is a democracy. We are concerned about what is happening there. We're all watching. We are watching over the excesses, we are monitoring developments, and indeed with great concern, because these affect relationships that have been in many decades and centuries, one would say, troubled, relationships which are threatened by the exacerbation of immigration and refugee, relations which may also be threatened by a random flow of political fugitives, relationships which largely form issues relating to the European Union, which there are specific opinions on Turkey's course and within these points of view is ours. This grid obliges us to be very careful and especially you who are at the Ministry of National Defence and the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government as a whole. What is it what the Prime Minister said "in 15 days will you have them back"? If he said that, of course. What is it what the Prime Minister said with awareness of the issues that the Government representative said - and rightly so - about respect for international law? What's that? Excuse me, but what leaks news and news are being exported, Ministers. We totally disagree with the way in which the Prime Minister has handled these operations. I do not want to talk any more, but I think we are clear. I also think that what we are saying is right and should give signals to those involved in our country's foreign affairs, to its European policy, to its bilateral relations with Turkey, and they should be very, very careful of what they are saying in public. And less television on this, by the relevant ministers - more than Members of Parliament, because there cannot be a gap in information and political assessment - and fewer words from the Prime Minister and from the Ministry of National Defence and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now, with regard to the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, it would be micropsy not to underline the very consistent presence of the Ministry of National Defence and the Commission and plenary. I have been given the opportunity to highlight this when we were adopting contracts, namely that the Minister himself and the committee are still present, but also in a draft law which is very serious, such as this. I'm too hard on my review of the majority. However, I am not unfair, since the first day we spent in the Opposition, what I said from this Step is that we will be very hard, but not unfair and insulting. Justice requires us to say that a parliamentary procedure has been carried out impeccably and continues in plenary because the observations which have been accepted, both our amendments and our amendments, and ours, which have been accepted, help and the reasoning of the HR. Anyone who accepts reasonable remarks wins in the field of logic does not lose. It's not a retreat to see that someone else can tell you something right. So as far as the amendment on the shipyards is concerned, because we lived a worker to say on television 'the money is available and I cannot take it', we mobilized and responded to the Ministry. And from what Mr Vitsas said a moment ago, the relative remark he wants to make in order to be incorporated into the amendment is regulatory, is not subversive to the substance. So none of us - and Mr Karras from the Central Association said to me that he was in agreement with Potami and it was said that colleagues agreed - would not be absurd to something that would help more thoroughly regulate. Now, for some issues relating to the basic draft law, like the National Aviation School, for unification, we are positive. And in order not to bite, to say in advance that we are voting in principle on the draft law. We were alerted. We met the day before yesterday and concluded that since most of us will vote, it is barren opposition to say 'no' at the beginning of the draft law, since it is made up of the individual. However, I have made an observation and I did not have time to see - because I asked to speak earlier because of the committee of inquiry that has already started, and I have to go - if the authorizing provisions have changed. That is why I am counting on my final assessment. We're positive. There are problems - we have pointed out them - with regard to professional rights. Perhaps it is also produced in the field of Armed Forces the classic problem that is produced in Greek higher education between universities and ATEI. In any case, if authorization has improved, we do not have any further disagreements, although we would like something more, overall, more strategic in relation to training in the Armed Forces. Now, there has been an in-depth discussion in committee on the Mozambique issue. We have raised objections, reservations. We have not been satisfied with the answers we have received, so our thoughts are to say 'according to' these articles or to'represent'. However, Minister, I asked the Commission what will happen, will you do outsourcing in the basic, studies, applications? You told me 'no', and you also told me that the only parentheses you would make, as far as staff are concerned, will be the soldiers who serve their term of office, who will of course be paid, obviously and correctly. However, I wonder if the information is true that the related functions that the Armed Forces are now doing in the areas for reasons of migration are being commissioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u49	Not from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u50	From you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u51	Oh, no. From the Ministry of Civil Protection or the Immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u52	How will this be turned into a necessity for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u53	Can I answer you, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u54	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have to ask, firstly, if the interruption is allowed and, secondly, if I give you the floor, or I can go get some coffee, I can't sit here! Mr. Loverdos accepts the interruption. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Loverdo, the competitions that had been launched for hot spots were the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Immigration. We were invited after the competitions had begun and many of them had already been finished. Where we intervened were in studies that had already been commissioned, they had finished, carried out the work, where we could intervene, without our own study being needed. In other words, water supply, electricity, sewerage, these works were from the Ministry of Civil Protection. We simply installed, did the earthworks, put the tents or executed the studies that existed. There was no competition on the side of the Ministry of National Defence. The only competitions that took place - competitions and not awards - of the Ministry of National Defence were for the works of Ikaria, Serres and two more - three small projects, where studies were needed to enable bridges of the bailey type to enter, to have the base. And for these, there were competitions, and then, in all the procedures provided for, they were paid for ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u57	My intervention, however, was not intended to criticise the competitive procedures or awards. It was intended to tell us how other ministries, to respond to such needs, resort to assignments, you as Ministry of National Defence will do it yourself, whether they are studies or...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u58	We're not doing this, Mr. Loverdo. Make your position and the Minister, when he talks, will answer. We're not going to finish this way until morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u59	There will be the procedures provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that if we are to take a decision as a Parliament, if this MOMKA is necessary, we must bear in mind its day-to-day function. If it is to make commissions, if it is to use sources of study for construction itself, outside the Ministry, then we do not see the reason. The Army is not to face immigration or build projects. The Army is doing another job. If, in order to meet the needs of his own, this service is necessary, then it is right to intervene. But if it is to resort permanently outside, I do not think it meets the needs of reality and the relevant provisions with the MMKA are not in a positive direction. But the Minister's speech will give further clarification. One thing that I can't deal with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u61	You'll have two more minutes because of the Minister's interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Jellonis will develop it on more specific terms. And I am referring to the arrangements relating to the Ministry's company, which will take advantage of the property and the share funds and the funds. It is in the right direction, since the legal status of shareholders in particular is not reversed and there are no problems of legal order. We shall vote on it, but Mr Jellonis has raised a matter and he will develop it. What about the Ministry's 'traditional' policy to give, to grant camps which are not in operation, to the municipalities, for which procedures have not been carried out, a great deal of progress? Even FEK exists, Mr. Colleague, as you have informed me. Do you now tell the municipalities to pay you 5% of the objective value? Because there is a matter here, we will put it, with special development by my colleague, and we would like your final answers. In general, however, these arrangements are in agreement with us because legality is not violated and, at the same time, use is facilitated. "Evaluation" is the major term of the draft law, which specialises in renting, to come to an understanding. There is no absolute clarification of what makes use of it. It is stated in many instances that this means leasing and there is no way of selling, selling. That is to be aware of exactly what the draft law regulates. We say 'yes' to the increase of the term of office of the Chief of HNDGS by one year and the heads of bodies. We have a great deal of reservations and we will be negative on the provisions concerning the body of the military priests and the possibility of the relevant military personnel being transferred. It is clear that military priests are necessary. They are necessary especially at wartime and not just. All other functions relating to worship may be served by the priests of the local metropolitans. But especially this body, basically at wartime, is necessary. Why, ladies and gentlemen, should we have a body with gallons and grades? Why? I'm not talking about the incumbents. Let them go for the rest of their term and leave the Army. But are we perpetuating a situation backwards, strange, peculiar? Why? It's enough for a military priest to be a Brigadier General. Why would that happen? We have a disagreement on this. We do not want to blame the existing ones - a small body - but we believe that there should be a new beginning in this body. Mr Minister, you have the arrangements for this Committee of Internal Audit in 40 or 41. Why should the Committee on Institutions and Transparency not interfere with saying 'yes', as for the others, in relation to the head? Wouldn't that be useful? Take a look at it. Finally, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u63	And close with that, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u64	Yes, but I have not been able, Mr President, to speak about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u65	Excuse me, you're interfering. I've given you two and a half minutes. Respect Mr. Davakis and Mr. Kouzilos next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u66	I'll tell my dentist then. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an amendment of twenty-seven Members of the majority on trade unionism. We are voting in favour, but we have too many comments to make. In the spirit of a dialogue, which is quite a constitutional law dialogue, many comments have been made by the Directorate for Scientific Studies in the direction of support. The Scientific Studies Directorate agreeing with the logic and scientific data throughout Europe says 'yes', that it is in the context of Article 12(1). Does it, however, raise questions relating to restrictions, not that they are unconstitutional, but does it say 'in view of the constraints, can the existing ones be dissolved'? And here there is a serious problem. Article 12(2) of the Constitution requires a judicial decision to prohibit the continuation of proceedings, but in the light of that judgment and of any appeals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you, then, have a arrangement to rule out the inconvenience? I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr. Loverdo, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u68	I'm closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u69	You're putting me in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u70	I have closed in ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u71	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u72	Ten seconds. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u73	I'm calm, too calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u74	So do I. We're positive. Look at this case and I'll see you in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u75	You're welcome. We're back in the line of rapporteurs now. Mr Davakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering shows - it is a good opportunity - five differences between our own thinking and the way in which the Government thinks about the present and the future of the Armed Forces. The first difference between us and the government is seen in the perception of the correct legal procedure, especially when it comes to national security and defence issues. The government seems to want to hide the bills it proposes. How else can one explain the parliamentary practice of discussing, tabling amendments and voting on this bill? The bill comes between the electoral law and the pressure we have at this afternoon's session. First of all, we do not understand why such an important issue, such as trade unionism, came in the form of an amendment initially - a Kozobol amendment, was written in history. This intervention is a deep part of the operation of the Armed Forces to date. That is why we have asked the Minister to withdraw this amendment, which has now made it an article and to bring it directly to the bill, in order to express opinions, to respond specifically and institutionally to issues and not to put this pressure on time as it exists today. One would expect that if the government believes deeply in the need for the union to be established, it would be prepared to take the necessary time - as I said before - to give up its arguments and, if you like - and this action as well as it could. Because it's something he wants to show. Instead, the Minister refused to withdraw it, and the government is passing the regulation in haste. Why are you in such a hurry? Who is pressing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for union to pass to the Armed Forces? Your chosen one, who sees the real course of the number of cash-adjoining members that are enrolled in the primary clubs, who are supposed to represent or are you the ones who scared, why do you see that your percentages now reflect your innumerable cubulations, as we are now used to saying? Finally - and this is most important - instead of the government dedicating time to such a sensitive issue, the regulation goes as an amendment, without real discussion, without hearing the positions of the Armed Forces' physical leadership. We say 'as an amendment' because until yesterday, as an amendment, we knew it was. And here we want to stand a little bit. The government majority rejected our proposal to hear the views of the Chiefs, the physical leadership of the Armed Forces. It appears that the only ones that can be heard are the ‘elected’. We are discussing a matter essential, fundamental to the personnel of the Armed Forces, such as trade union action, and they have not been heard about the personnel of the Armed Forces, their physical leadership! Nor do we understand the practice of putting such an important multi-brand in plenary for a few hours, I said so at the beginning. You decide on the future of the Armed Forces in less time than the general meetings of student organizations take. Finally, since we are on the issue of the government's legislative Babel, we have to make a reference to the amendment by the Ministry of Interior. One can hardly understand how this amendment was found in the Ministry of Defence bill. The amendment is of little relevance to the subject of the National Defence, even deals with important issues, touching on all local government officials. With this data that I am analyzing, we are voting 'at present' in this particular amendment. Our second difference - I told you that it is five - in our own way of thinking and in the government's thinking about the relationship between the State and the members of the Armed Forces and how to ensure the morality and dignity of these people, thanks to the self-sufficientness and efforts of which, as far as possible, the impact of the economic situation that the country is experiencing. With the amendment to trade unionism, the government is not interested in improving the living conditions of staff; it is not interested in ensuring their morality and dignity. Its aim is to exploit the frustration and insecurity that executives feel because of the fact that they have been fighting for six years to create relationships between dependence and party control in the Armed Forces. If the Government, ladies and gentlemen, had a real interest in improving the level of living of the College of Officials and Officials and restoring the injustices they have suffered, it would have taken immediate action in this direction. For example, in the one and a half years that he would have paid the remaining 50% of the decision of the Council of State, he could not have voted for the "fresh" of the remuneration of military officials, he could have found equivalent for the cuts in the Ministry of National Defence from other public expenditure. In short, as far as the remuneration of military officials is concerned, the government has both the knife and the watermelon. The fact that instead of taking direct decisions for the benefit of executives chooses to legislate trade unionism is revealing its intentions. After the flogging of the financial situations, the government wants to exercise party control over the Armed Forces through the creation of a parallel structure of friends of adjoining political stewards who will bypass physical leadership and speak directly with the College of Officers and Officers. It is no coincidence that the amendment nominally refers to the secondary union, which will by law monopolise the representation of the military throughout the territory from tomorrow. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that, in about forty-five thousand of officers and officers - so many - members who have joined all these organisations do not exceed seven hundred people. That's their acceptance! And that is what we are now institutionalising, with the choices of the Tsipras - Kammenos government. Nor is it accidental that the provision of funding this instrument with two-thirds of all the contributions of the members of the primary clubs and that it should be only this on the Internet. Nor is the time when the amendment is tabled surprised. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, urgently needs to establish relationships with the College of Officers and Officers. Its purpose is to create a union which will help it by absorbing the political cost from the cuts which, by signing the two main co-governments, are coming. The government is forced to create relationships with dependency because he promised a lot, he lied, and now he's with his back on the wall. In addition to syndication, the bill contains several provisions that unfairly affect staff and create problems in its smooth operation. Firstly, in Article 18(3), we do not understand the reasons for the possibility of transferring officers from the Horsemen's Corps, whose staff have valuable training and flight experience of thousands of hours of flight. The skills of this staff are an investment that the agency has made and which will be lost if the arrangement proceeds and the service is given the opportunity to transfer this staff. In addition, radionavigators currently meet C-130 needs and different business centres. They will even be invited to meet future needs when the upgrading process you have started for a year in P -3 Orion, as you know. On the basis of these comments, it is immediate that there should be a legislative improvement on the part of the Ministry in order to remove from the bill the provision for the transfer of radionavigations. You need to see it. The second subparagraph of this paragraph hampers enormous fears on these people, whom I think you are well aware of. Secondly, we disagree with the provisions of Article 41. In particular, it is not immediately understood why it is necessary to establish an interim tripartite body - and indeed with the participation of this year's judge - which will be intervened by controlling the work of the audit committee. Is there any reason why the Minister wants to check the results of the Audit Committee? I don't want to believe it. Is her function happening somewhere? Tell us. Why the choice of this year's judge? Is there a deficit of confidence in the leadership in the face of military justice, in the vast body, in the chosen body of military justice? We believe that, since there are no satisfactory answers - they have not been given so far - the Minister must withdraw this article or at least replace the present one with a military judge. Thirdly, we consider it necessary for the Presidential Decree provided for in Article 2(3) to be adopted directly and directly to protect the emblems and names of three historical schools that wrote their own history in the Air Force, such as SYSTEM and SIP, which are now merged and created serious fears regarding history, memories, their work, their efforts and their contribution to our Air Force. Fourthly, it is obvious and we think that there is no need for a special analysis of the fact that we support the amendment on personnel at war or permanent availability, which was accepted a few minutes ago by the political leadership and was an effort by Mr Anastassios Prussakis as a legislative initiative. Fifthly, the Government seeks to create a relationship of dependence on the physical leadership of the Armed Forces. In particular, the provision in Article 17 for an extension of one year of the term of office of the Heads of General Staff - two plus one, three plus one - creates incentives to align them with all the options of political leadership, irrespective of operational utility, with a view to extending their term of office. Our position, as analysed in committee, is increasingly stable for two years, because the 'in addition to one' we all understand in this Chamber that they create another kind of dependence, another type of thinking, another form of analogy with decisions, 'I want', the wills of political leadership. I think you should see it. Two years stable for the leadership is excellent and that creates a flexibility, if you like, in the flow of the series and schools, in highlighting the face of the leadership. Sixthly, we consider it necessary to change paragraph 26 of Article 18, so that the twenty-five years limit is placed on 31-12-2015 and not on 31-12-2014 that is now. Graduates graduated from higher schools in 1992 were the last series in which this decree was implemented. The graduates of this series were promoted to officers for twenty years. The following series of 1993 was promoted to officers in nineteen years, pursuant to 3883/10. We therefore believe that this error in wording must be changed to include all the series of '74' 455. Ladies and gentlemen, our third difference between our approach and the government is about the role of the Armed Forces and the scope of their involvement in enterprises that are not part of their main task. You understand we're talking about MOCA. The bill even more involves the Armed Forces in operations and services that are not their main task. Following the involvement of the Armed Forces in the matter of immigration, the hospitality of refugees, infrastructure, hot spots and all of this, which took place in winter and so far and continues to take place in hospitality structures...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u77	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u78	No, where we arrived, we don't disagree. We have asked the Armed Forces to unleash the incompetence, incompetence and deficits of today's administration. Where's Mr. Muzalas your friend to answer us? And you, as political leadership, and that issue, Minister. The recreationalism and the sloppiness of the government in this particular case, which is provided for in this bill, provides for the creation of this service, the so-called MOMCA, which, as you have said, will use to build projects of local interest and means, the main task of which is defensive fortification. The draft law does not even ensure that the budget of the Ministry of National Defence will not be charged by the activities of the MOMA. I asked you: Fuel, offshore days, staff, media maintenance costs, machine depreciation, damage, transport costs, who will charge them? Obviously, the established budgets of the General Staff. Isn't that right, Minister? In the light of the burning issues facing the Ministry, the burden of operating budgets on the MOMKA is proof of the extremely distorting priorities of the government. If we call him MOMKA until yesterday, I don't think anything changes. And all these works - Belley bridges and all that - were always done, Minister. Come to Laconia to see how many bridges of Belley came in the '50s, '60s, '70s in remote villages and throughout the country. The Armed Forces have always been supportive to local needs, problems. To establish a specific service at the expense of staff, at the expense of executives, at the expense of the media and machinery, you can understand that, within the limits of these people, only through trade unionism, it seems to me, they will be able to speak. But unfortunately, you understand where we're going with this. The fourth difference between our thinking and that of the government is the priority that we give to critical armaments programmes even in times of budgetary tightness. Elefsina shipyards are in progress, which is of great importance to the Hellenic Navy. The study of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues to freeze accounts creates huge questions as to whether the range and priorities of the Ministry are respected by the Ministry of Finance. Finally, please agree, because every one of us cannot be in a difficult position to apologise for failures and I would say a lot of things that are inconsistent with the Ministry of Finance. Before we move on to the fifth and most important difference between us and the government, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Minister has made legislative improvements to the question of share funds. The previous wording which provided that the funds would give a simple opinion on matters relating to shareholders, dividends, etc. It was obviously unacceptable and we are glad that you understood it. With regard to the general principle of the need to make use of the property of the Armed Forces, Minister, you are breaking open doors here. We were the first to raise the issue during our term of office by legislating nr.4250/2014 to unify the three Armed Forces, TECs, TECs and TECs. There is, of course, one issue here. Why do you privately put on the steering wheel of this case? I understand that, as political leader, you have your obligations, your statemen, your candidates, people who supported you in the difficult struggle after your departure from New Democracy and you need to take care of them somewhere. Mr Tasoulas had said to put him in the European Parliament, in the State. Should your stateman, Mr. Zeshimat, put him at the wheel of managing the property of the Armed Forces? You realize, like all of us, that you will leave this post sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Davakis, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u80	I shall conclude in two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u81	Not two, less. You've already taken two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Loverdos has challenged the Minister's reply. It was not the Minister's answer to Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u83	I judge who caused it and who didn't cause it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u84	I'll be in a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u85	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u86	You understand that this will continue, Minister, and it is at the expense of the case called the property of the Armed Forces, when every individual, stateman, friend of the Minister, or anything else, is responsible for this case, which is the most sacred to the members of the Armed Forces, which is its property. The fifth and most substantial difference we have with the government is the way we treat the Armed Forces in themselves as a whole, their mission and all that compose the idea called "the Armed Forces". The Greek Armed Forces are not yet a structure of the Greek public, against us. The purpose of their troops is to organise individuals in groups for armed violence, with the aim of protecting their homeland, independence and integrity against external threats, of course. The adhesive of this structure is the hierarchy - concepts of serious, synthetic in the case of Armed Forces - discipline, leadership and trust. You are laughing, ladies and gentlemen, at SYRIZA, but that is the reality. Ask the general. He might remember. In this context, military property is not yet a sign, yet another profession. Military status is a choice of life, which goes beyond the mere relationship of an employer, a worker, and which, due to the nature of that activity, needs to be accompanied by specific rules. The Greek Armed Forces are not one more or another European military force. The Greek Armed Forces are one of the few military organisations in Europe who are at all times called upon to face a hostile threat to the territorial integrity of our country. There is no link between any environment threatening a European country and the security situation that Greece faces in its nearby and wider region. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the New Democracy, which is the only political force that can resist the gleaning of our country, a left-hand agenda between the Tsipra-Kammen conflict, which aims to marginalise issues in the field of National Defence and the deterioration of military status, will defend this role. The New Democracy is not going to vote on the bill at first. And we are committed that the next New Democracy government's priority is to continue an important task launched in the Armed Forces, quietly, without drum-blowing, with a lot of work, mainly beginning with the withdrawal, the abolition of the obsolete amendment - an article on trade in the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u87	I would like to inform you that twenty-one colleagues have been written. If this thing continues - incidentally it is my presidency - the many New Democracy colleagues will not be able to speak until 17.00 p.m. I want to be clear so we don't get any misunderstanding later. MEP Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 23 July to 26 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u88	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Kouzilos, special speaker from Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. All issues relating to our national defence are not dealt with in a draft law. The Armed Forces for us are not just armaments and defence contracts. The Armed Forces for us are mostly their spiritual potential. Staff issues are also raised in this legislation. Chapter I unified the Air Force Officers Schools, SYAs, SYDs and SIPS, in one. You're saying you're making an upgrade of Air Force Schools. I would like to mention this in the explanatory statement. In fact, you are not making an upgrade, because there will be the same regime that existed in the previous ones. You're reorganizing. In other words, in the explanatory statement you have put it very wrong. Let us not forget that we are talking about schools with a special subject of knowledge and a high level of study. It's gonna be reorganized. Many people say to the Air Force 'you are doing it right'. What's the matter? Will the existing cognitive subject of schools be maintained? Is there going to be a high level of study again? Three years anyway, they stay in school. Chapter B refers to the establishment of a Unit for Studies and Construction, MOMKA. We're actually talking about reconstituting the old MOMA. We have raised concerns in committee, particularly with regard to expenditure, whether there will be a special military working regulation and how MMKA will be linked to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. These are questions which need to be answered and explained. Now we're going to Chapter III, where we're setting up an Armed Forces Real Estate Assurance Agency. That's a great title, but this is where we're talking about the property of the Armed Forces. Independent service. Let us see in the explanatory statement what it says: 'It is an independent service, which the Minister will have direct control and after the Equatorial Funds', as you corrected it, and 'Its President will be a Legal Person of Private Law'. Can we overlook that? Let's go below: 'It's not a sale'. Indeed, it's written in. It's not a sale. It's exploitation. Exploitation for ninety-nine years? There's no use. It's Hong Kong. "The proceeds from real estate development will be given to the Armed Forces". Since there's no revenue? What they formerly wanted to do in PASOK and New Democracy has been forced, because the Armed Forces budget has been reduced by 50%, to do so now. And since we are talking about the equity funds and we are talking about their revenues, another question arises: what has been done with the PSI. It is worth a committee of inquiry. It is worth exploring all parties. The PSI that screwed up all the funds. PASOK, isn't it? Don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u90	We're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u91	Something needs to be done there, see how this money has left the funds, who has given the order, if the mandate for the funds has been unlawful. That's where I think it's a very big scandal. A number of other issues are also raised. You say that the competition will take place online and there will be transparency. You said to the committee, it will be on line, there will be transparency, there will be no intervention, there will be nothing closed. Can we raise another issue? It says that it will be from the European Union and the EFTA countries, free economic zones of the European Union. Inside EFTA is Albania. Who ensures that there's no offshore Turkish in the competition? We can't control this. Some other issues are also raised in this chapter: veins. It's a moral topic for the Fevers. If we remember before the New Democracy was trying to sell it, in the 1990s, and all over the coastal front. In the veins, however, special units of the Armed Forces are being trained all over the place and it is morally important. It's moral. Let's go now to the Armed Forces' Heads of Forces. We're vertically opposite. It must be two years or three, not to be left to the political leadership in question if it will give the individual leader a year to extend. Article 18. This article speaks of the personnel of the Armed Forces. This whole article may well be a bill. What we want and ask for, because there is a pluralism right now in the area of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, is for all these laws to be examined. There's a lot of windows. I will give you a few examples, because there is a piece of legislation in this area, and I will tell you where we disagree: for the officers of the warships. So, the ones who are in an office and the governors who have gone from a ferry, freshmen, etc., will be treated the same way? That's a stimulus, actually.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u92	For two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u93	For two years, in particular, have you made this clear to the committee, but will it not be injustice for these people? Won't he be able to find another solution? Because the fleet doesn't just have frigates, it has ferries, it has other ships. Of course, on smaller ships he can't go for the specific grades we're talking about, I know. Also, are you bringing the legislature for the Air Force chiefs, who have studied in an EIT, who are how many? Ten? Twenty? It's not more than that. Isn't that an incentive for the officers to study, to have some more knowledge? You also have a chapter in it, there is an article specifically in it so there can be an officer's cooperation. We've asked you to have some officers for the T.E.L.D. So, what are you actually doing to them? Are you punishing them with what you're putting in and writing? In the legislation you brought, it states that the phrases "minimum", "regardless of empty organic positions". In general, with regard to the Navy PDOs, there were indeed injustices against them and there should be incentives for those who serve in the Fleet and Special Forces. Also, with Article 18, and in consultation on revoking issues, we see that there is no longer a question of morality in this respect. And it's very simple, because there's an amendment to Law.3883/2010, so there's an equal level of treatment for those who've been rescinded. Let's move on to Article 27. We don't agree with the change. You're actually downgrading the Army. And, in fact, we can't understand what you're doing. Article 30 actually solves a problem of the Special Forces. Let us move to Chapter V: Defence and Security Conventions. Here we have asked the questions that yes, but. We agree that there should be flexibility among the leaders of all three guns so that they can manage some money for immediate needs. I mean, they need ten tires instantly. We can't get it, we'll have to make a contest, we have to wait six months. And there is a relative flexibility for the leaders. We are opposed to Article 34, to the exploitation of non-operational military equipment necessary for the Armed Forces to cover, you say, the equipment needs. After the budget has been reduced by 50%, you need to find revenue. But there are other questions in this article. What do you mean, "equipment"? So, trailers of long storage firearms are being sold? This is a simple example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u94	We're talking about non-operational.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u95	That is not precisely what we are talking about, and that is why I am telling you. With Chapter F and Articles 35, 36, 37 and 39 of course we agree. And now we're talking about the self-evident things that haven't happened in so many years. For Article 40, the monitoring of the disciplinary procedures of military personnel by the College of Public Administration Inspectors, we naturally disagree. Let's get a little up to Article 41, the National Defence Department's Internal Control Unit. There are two proposals for this: first, apart from the Minister's assent to the highest military councils. And our second proposal is that political judges should not be involved, that civil justice should not be involved. The Body of Military Judges is excellent. Let them do their job. We agree with the academic cooperation of the Armed Forces Schools. Here we have stressed that you must add with cooperation with TEI for the officers. With Article 42, we agree with regard to academic cooperation between schools. With Article 43, a problem is finally solved which had not been solved - again - and we had to come to 2016 to solve it. And here we would like to stress that as far as the issue of the term of the monks is concerned, this was also a permanent post of the late Christoulos. Let us now move on to some other issues. There are, as we have said, some staff issues, but it is not just them, it is also some moral order. The Pan-Hellenic Air Force Families Association, while there is no financial burden, asks for something very simple: To the low-priced, medals, prizes, which deserve them. We have tabled an amendment - previous speakers have mentioned - on whether it is appropriate, if possible, if the Armed Forces are allowed to participate in the issue of illegal immigration. And we have brought a very nice amendment - all of us have put it 'what are the Armed Forces doing?' - which reads: "The personnel of the Armed Forces are released from any involvement which he had until now in the reception centres of illegal immigrants". With a very nice article, with two-three lines you release the Armed Forces. Of course, you haven't accepted it. In conclusion, I would like to say that in general, we do not see a number of problems solved. We see - what is going on in other bills - that there are patches and there are all the consequences of the reduction in the Ministry of Defence's budget. In fact, what you're doing is selling, renting, and generally collecting money. For us, they're not Armed Forces what you're going to do, what you're trying to do. I shall end, Mr President, with regard to what New Democracy and the PASOK have said so far. What have they done for so many years? It was government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Lianna Kanelle, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with the small point that it is a giant bill - all my fellow Members will agree - which is ten - fifteen bills gathered, different issues and theme, Minister. At least two amendments, at least, by Mr Kourublis, are self-evident bills of local selfgovernment. They're typical bills, with articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. You know, when they come in the form of an amendment to defence matters, issues on OTAs, in fact, obliges us to a completely different position. So because I want to be clear, to discuss fifty articles, fifteen amendments and two of them, to be two independent bills of another kind, repairing or deep political section, it is impossible in fifteen minutes to keep one's elementary parliamentary dignity, I will be clear, titled and printed. We have placed ourselves as a party extremely detailed on matters - I will acknowledge that some things you have accepted with your corrections - I will not overlook the good will for all of this, but that does not allow me to say 'yes' to the bill. And it does not allow me to say 'yes' in the bill at first instance for very substantial reasons. If we wanted to make changes to the level of education, for example the Armed Forces and the educational system concerning the Armed Forces - and accept your good intention of bringing a bill forward - why are we now rushing to make unification? For economic reasons. If we wanted to change the small amount of money at the level - I say now - supply and armaments, we could have done this with a wide debate on what armaments mean to the Armed Forces and who decides on them. However, these are all ladies and gentlemen, under the terms of the day, the geostrategic position of the region and the central choices of governments to date. European Union and NATO. Let someone take a look at what we're talking about here and what's going on around us. Let us talk about national sovereignty, patriotic Armed Forces, patriotic education, JRC proposals, for example, a single construction sector state, so that there is no political exploitation of the press 'The Armed Forces will come to build the bridge where the contractor does not go or where the municipality so requests or where need arises', who will say no? But those in peacetime are only political papers that can be played locally. Political papers are whether you want it or not. Even if I accept the explanation you gave us in committee on contractions. When we go now to change the schools of Air Force, leaving the names and symbols intact, but only to the extent of symbols, changing the central name of the schools that unite in the Air Force, leaving intact the names of the other schools in the other two Weapons, one begins and wonders why. Where are we right now? We have NATO to ride - and we are a member of NATO - in the Aegean. We called it, Minister, to come and make us the supporter in the area. And are the pigeons of July, with Cyprus in two, with the invasion and possession in force, a problem that has arisen - a problem? National wound - with natonic initiative, support and suspicion. And we are sitting here and discussing today whether or not the CIA helped the almost coup - a stand against Erdogan, when we have proof of the participation of the Americans and NATO in the crime of Cyprus, which was not solved by participation in the European Union, to now discuss Turkey and the European Union. And now we are going to discuss whether we will call it S.H.I.E.L.D. and exactly how you will say it, if that is the case, without either talking about the content of the studies, or about the content of the supplies. Who dictates these? National needs of patriots? Are we kidding each other here, big people and making fun of them outside? Naval needs are naval needs, precede, hierarchy. The European needs are European needs, they are being hierarchised. Memorandum of Conservation is a European perspective and needs and the International Monetary Fund and all the co-involved perpetrators of impoverished anti-grass measures and are being prioritised. We're poor, aren't we? Why? If a number of issues are resolved here, we will of course say 'yes' and we will resolve them. In principle, how can we say 'yes'? Who's going to tell us that this thing settles the Greek Armed Forces, defines a number of things? And look, we're sending bas ships and someone runs away, supposedly a coup, so they can come from here and we're on alarm. At the same time, we are gathering dead of boats and at the same time our borders from the West to Europe are closed. Which country are we talking about? What patriotic real deep things are we talking about in here? What's gonna get good at all this? It's like we're dealing with avoiding or taxing a person who has a kiosk or cheese piety shop and fleeing the whole big part, but all the big part, in favor of other interests at the level of capitalist antagonisms and imperialism. And a point - I honestly say it to you - because every time I hear that it is 'woody' vocabulary and not called imperialism', say, say, say, "say, she also escaped from the amazing secretaries here and our scribes that are torn apart to us, in practical terms, the word 'imperialism' as 'extra-realism'. And because once a language is occult, it says, in fact, you have a superrealistic approach to imperialism and you present it as a landing in reality. So I'm gonna land us, actually. It doesn't change anything from the vote on the articles. I do not want to repeat what each chapter says. My fellow Members know that, and the people who listen to us know that, and they understand to tell him that it is about MMKA. She remembers MOMA, she has a positive view of MOMA in more difficult times, where there were no other ways and other methods and there were no contractors, which are discussed in relation to channels, licenses, PPC, OTE, electrically. Nothing. These were completely different locations and in any case they have taken the aegis for privatization, because it has to survive the capital, even if the Greeks die for the next ninety years. There is nothing to change in our vote. I have two loose ends. One thing was for Articles 31 to 34, for which I owed you an explanation. We are talking here about supplies, about a way that needs to be regulated when things are low, whether they relate to spare parts, to ammunition, or to a number of things. I would like to make it clear to you that our position will be 'at present'. As well as in the procedural, structural and procedural procedures referred to in Article 46, which I had reserved for, I tell you that we shall vote 'at present'. The rest I shall refer to the end of my speech in detail. We are now going to two - three very important issues. You unify the three teaching schools. You have a problem changing the name. Understood. No fermentation, no substance. But, as he lives, for the School of Officers, if you keep the titles underneath, you're actually abrogating them. In other words, the titles and symbols will only be left to maintain a seventy-year-old, excellent in quality, history on this side of people. Education is important when you talk about the substance, not just about the structure. Right now, you're getting plenty of beds and infrastructures at the Icaron School at the Pedimon School. They're over a thousand beds. You did tell me, and you did, and you accepted it. That's where we could have another guy's facility. In exploiting the property, what is not going to defend - we were sitting and told you - it must go for the people's needs, which are unbearable, whether this is a student's home, whether it is a leisure park, be it green in the lungs, or are ways to make use of it for popular access. They cannot deal with the issues of the Armed Forces' property and to strengthen the share fund and the shareholders and everything else you want, in Greek or other procedures. We saw where they ended up and how they ended up with a series of Olympic works, which the Greek people paid with their blood. Swing flags of the "Samsung", the same company and so on. They told him this was very big and very important and very patriotic. And now I don't start talking about Marathon until I know where else. It cannot be treated similarly with anything the property of the Armed Forces, which even if you want to pull it out of the hair, does not cease to be the property of the Greek people. Typically and essentially it can be the shareholders, but it is the Greek people, unless one believes that the Armed Forces are not the Greek people and serves different interests, which is very far from us and from the JRC and from anyone else to think about it. That is why we must be very careful about the wording, because if we are not careful about the wording, reasonable answers of sinful past are born. I should like to stick to the amendments because it is very important. You've brought us one for doctors now. We didn't have time to see her to sit down. It is for subsidiary medical staff, which we will see so that we can then place ourselves. Let's go to the amendments. So I will tell you that we have no objection to the amendment by Mr Vitsa and Mr Friends, that is, we will say 'the present' to classify the officers who have a diploma. We shall vote on the amendment to the Icarus, 559. The first is 558. We'll say "according to" at the last head office of OHIM at universities on 566. I now need to analyse it, why do we say 'against'? I have just given you an analysis of what the Armed Forces' approach is compulsory. We've been warming for years. Haven't you seen, for example, where the naval scholarships are headed? Do you know how many years there are naval scholarships in Greece and you know what kind of attitudes they're building? Are you sure about patriotising these scholarships, for example, and defending our interests by NATO, so that we can decorate the universities, when our proposal is to keep a balance of academic and military at the level of training and training of the Armed Forces, why does this promote the Armed Forces? The amendment on civil protection will be discussed in detail. I'm telling you we're going to the present. We will be going to the 'courts' to Mr Kurubli's amendment, because we cannot do otherwise, so there are a couple of small issues, for workers of impoverished people who are regulated in there, otherwise we should support the things that are going through and who have lifted the hair. Of course, 'yes' to SYRIZA's amendment to restore equality between women at volunteer level. They've been out of the process for too long. Of course we will say 'yes', because another thing is to say that there is equality and more in practice. Equality between the sexes in practice does not exist outside the army. Get out, check the payroll, check it out. There isn't. Of course, we will say 'yes' to the amendment on the military availability of the disabled. Let's go to the Elefsina Shipyard, which we'll tell you is 'a present'. Why? I'm starting with her. A "substances" clarification you need here. Is this the first time it's been filed? I remember Flevaris too, with unpaid people. The way it was submitted and the way it is now, the money is sure they're going to go to the workers? I tell you they won't go to the workers. Some of the things you owe the workers will actually be easy for Tavoularis and the others, as is the case elsewhere. However, it is a long time that the workers have been unpaid and then, when they go in front of them as a huge need, pressing, which looks good, reasonable, comprehensible and philanthropic, to be the one who has been taking advantage of them so far, so many years, that he too can take advantage of the wool, as always is the case with free economy and urban governance, as we are here. We shall now proceed to the Minister's amendment on civil protection. I remember Mr Teddy saying in 2013 talking about civil protection, something very characteristic. In fact, I have him with introductory words to say: 'We have run too fast what will be the doctrine of firefighting from now on, volunteerism, the participation of the Greek citizen'. This is where we start, and we have problems with such amendments. We have NGOs to take millions. Ask the Minister responsible for NGOs what they are in Greece and what millions of millions they take and say 'I don't know'. Officially answered. Let's go to the European Parliamentary Group, the European Parliamentary Group asks: "Who are these NGOs who get money for refugees?", and a list and money goes down. Either you don't know or they don't know or someone doesn't know anything, but we found out where the money goes. They go to NGOs and there's a lot of them. We will go to civil protection, assisting investment projects in the reality of monopolistic groups and strengthening voluntary work. We want volunteering. When? When it is a complete Fire Corps, when it is fully adequate to personnel, it has well trained personnel, it has all the means in its hands and from the side and beyond it has the solidarity of the Greeks to help with fire-fighting. This is not covered in its substance by the amendment, and it covers the holes in the firehouse. In the anti-nuclear period they have not been covered by elsewhere, always pretext is economics, so that the thing ends up as it is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I cannot go into the amendments - and I shall avoid that - by Mr Kurublis, we will do so when Mr Kurublis comes to present them. Because there we have issues, for example, the four-month non-operationality of the service councils, which we are trying to resolve with the bill of the Ministry of National Defence. In order to clarify, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, we are, in principle, against the articles, as we have voted on, with the two clarifications. I'll give the articles in writing. I also spoke about the amendments. I reserve myself in my dentistry, and with the presence of Mr Kurubli, to speak about all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u98	About Article 50, about the union?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u99	For Rule 50 and for association, I will tell you if the Bureau so permits, because asking me downstairs and answering...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u100	After everyone took, Mrs. Canelle, a little more time and you've got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u101	I'm typical of procedures. I'd hold on to my dentistry, because I want to put myself in detail. I only tell you this: we will say what we have to say, but the article is missing. It's missing in too many things. I am only telling you in writing to avoid abuse, because there are twenty-one colleagues who are written here and despite the slandering, I manage to be much better than those who slander me when I speak here. So I'm telling you, it's a waste of time. It includes arrangements with 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 281, restricting the right to substance. We're not against, we're in favour. I'll put myself in detail to listen to me, to make some difference. We are certainly not going to vote against it. We've told you we'll vote 50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u102	As it will be in favour of facilitating the procedure, I will give the floor first to the Minister for a minute, who wants to make a statement on public health in the Armed Forces, and then I will give the floor to Mr Vitsa for two-three minutes on three amendments tabled by colleagues, so that the Government's position on them can be known. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, for intervening, but we have a statement again from the Union of Military Regions of Epirus on the issue of the military issue at the Refugee Centre in Chepelov, a subject that Mr Davakis and the Golden Dawn had brought in and I answered 15 days ago. The answer I gave to the House at the time was that there is no soldier who has suffered from tuberculosis. The fact that a communication comes again and is repeated on the websites puts us in mind of who they are trying to create such problems. So to end this story, there will be disciplinary checks on first of all by those who disseminate such news from the moment an impression is made on an issue that does not exist. I read in Parliament the response of the President of the CEDEFOP, although I did not want to do so until now, because there was a request for confidentiality on these matters. I need to read it to end this. And from now on a preliminary investigation will be ordered, an ESA, to see who's trying to spread these news.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u104	Of course, read it and submit it in the Minutes to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, you will allow me to read a place, not to testify, because these are matters for which CEDEFOP is asking us to keep confidentiality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u106	We will be able to access and read it by anyone who wants the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u107	The letter is from the office of the President of the CEDEFOP, signed by the Deputy Professor of Pathology of Infections, Mr. Tsiodra, and says: "The CEDEFOP was informed of the performance of a pre-symptomal check of the phytosanitary reaction to soldiers from the units of Epirus. We've sent all the evidence to the CDC. It is stressed that finding positive tuberculosis under no circumstances is equivalent to a diagnosis of active tuberculosis disease and infection by a particular person.’ There's no patient. Everyone's got the vaccine. Before they go to serve in a facility, which could be such a disease, they've had a vaccine. Those who have taken the vaccine and become test Mantoux have probably a positive reaction because of the vaccine because they create antibodies or some have antibodies long before. There's no patient, and I'm clarifying it for the last time. I am sorry to say this, but I am forced from now on to investigate who is making this news leak, which is causing concern. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u108	Before I give Mr. Vitsa the floor, because I happen to be a doctor, Minister, it is sure as Mr. Chiodras writes it. Others are positive at test Mantoux and I'm infected with tuberculosis. But that does not mean that the people who are in the camp should not be searched, not the soldiers, not at all, and there is a problem, which did positively the test Mantoux, outside of the vaccination. Otherwise it is as you said, another 'I am positive at test Mantoux' and another 'I have tuberculosis'. However, the population of the establishment must be controlled there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u109	Everyone checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u110	Good. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u111	Just for this matter, I would like to say that, as full control and ongoing control are carried out, there is no reason every time it comes out, a communication also comes out. This is the central problem, that is, this is not a possible thing, and it raises concerns.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u112	Leave the CEDEFOP communication, get in the way of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u113	I don't live in this. There are three amendments which we are accepting. There is the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 569 and a special 55.It concerns contracts which have to do with the needs of the Armed Forces and which were before the 2011 Act, but a wrong procedure was followed and we need to revive them today as well. It has been given and there is one first "yes" complete by us. Secondly, there is the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 532 and a specialist of 38. We accept, and after consultation, the amendment tabled by the Democratic Integration together with the Central Association, with the following legislative changes, which we agreed with Mr Loverdos and Mr Karras. The words ‘for any reason’ shall be deleted and at the end of the first subparagraph the words ‘and the payments made by the Hellenic Navy for the implementation of its programmes’ shall be added. In this way, we are going beyond - as far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned - what Mrs Canelley pointed out as a risk. In other words, we do not give any money, in a sense, to ownership in terms of profit. We give the workers, their needs for ship building. The third amendment we are accepting is the one with a general number of 564 and a special 51, where we remove the limitations on the participation of civil servants in the management of Lifelong Learning Centres, which are legal persons, OTAs I and II grades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. The reason is now the special speaker from the Potami Mr. Spyros Danelis. When the suggestions are completed, Mr Vernardakis will take the floor to defend his amendment. Then we're on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, as Western European democracy, which respects the rule of law and international conventions, we do not have a second way of managing the extremely thorny issue of the eight Turkish soldiers, despite what is expressly provided for by international law and national law. It is therefore a matter of justice entirely and exclusively and not of executive power. Any other management of this extremely difficult problem will cause us insurmountable problems in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, there are seven chapters in the bill entitled 'Regulating matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions', which deal with quite different, but also unequivocally unequal issues between them. Issues are being addressed from the development of the Armed Forces personnel, issues of weapons contracts, to large-scale projects to make use of the assets of the Funds and of the three Arms. Within this body of different regulations, of course, there are funds which, in our view, are in a positive direction and we agree. However, there are also issues which we find opposing. But let's start over. Chapter I and Articles 1 to 4 provide for the unification of the three productive Schools of Civilian Staff in one school. So far, we had three: SYSTEM, SYSTEM, and SMY. These are now a school, the School of Permanent Air Force, which incorporates, without abolishing, the individual specialities in the relevant subjects of the abolished schools. These provisions are close to our own concepts of rationalisation and abolition of the division of similar entities. Of course, Chapter I, in which we agree, is in favour. In Chapter II in Articles 5 to 8, a new OHIM Office is set up under the name of a Unit of Studies and Construction, MOMKA, which will undertake studies and constructions. The establishment of the MOMA under the name of MOMCA is considered to be problematic both as an arrest and as a manager. The establishment of the new plant shows, in our view, incompatibility with European competition rules in the construction sector. It is known that, in accordance with European law, the activity of state bodies, where there are equivalent and similar contractors, is not allowed for competition purposes. There is, moreover, an explicit ban on European competition law. In particular are Directives 17/2004, 18/2004 and 81/2009 on the involvement of the Armed Forces in public works. I fear that the reconstitution of the MOMA, as you suggest, serves only a vision of enlargement and enlargement of the state, without forgetting, of the fact that it refers to times of previous times with other features. Today, since we are given the opportunity, the government should consider the absolute priority, Mr Ministers, the completion of the process and the submission to public debate and, of course, a debate in the House on the draft public procurement bill. We should be discussing the conditions for the participation of contractors in public contracts. We should try to exalt a problem, by common confession, by ensuring transparency and control, in order to combat the known pathogens of the area, namely corruption, fraud, the dismantling of public money and not to build a new contractor under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. After all, we must not forget the specific historical conditions that had led to the creation of MOM, a structure which undoubtedly left a positive mark and work over the past decades. Neither have we come out of a war - thank God - nor has the infrastructure of the country been destroyed. Thus, the response of modern problems is certain that it does not pass through the enclosure in outdated narrow state and bureaucratic structures. Also, when a service of this kind cannot manage European funds, because the only available resources for many years will unfortunately be European funds, we do not understand the feasibility of creating such a service and also of creating such ambitious plans. At the same time, there is no serious and processed report from the General Accounting Office of the State which assesses the costs for the establishment and support of the MMOKA. The question therefore arises as to whether it is advantageous and economically and whether such a choice could be legally maintained. Furthermore, we do not understand the argument about the necessity of MOMKA, as you are referring to, in cases of urgent national need following a decision by the CSCE. We have no description and no definition of what we mean 'urgent national need' and when this process is being activated. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the Military Engineer has never stopped producing small-scale projects and infrastructure for the benefit of local communities, which are, of course, outside the narrow defence framework. In difficult areas and in island areas there is a continuous production of small-scale positive for local project societies. And of course, as far as emergency needs are concerned, they are always present. In Chapter III, which includes Articles 9 to 16, you are making an innovation. You recommend a new department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make use of the real estate of the Armed Forces, under the name of the Ministry of Defence. The purpose of the service is to undertake the procedures for the exploitation of the assets of the Armed Forces to be granted to individuals for up to ninety years. Obviously, and it is not pointless to have a serious effort to exploit and return this property that the Ministry has and manages. However, even though we understand the specificities of the Ministry of National Defence in relation to the other Ministries, we do not understand why this whole project does not fall within a central and general overall planning. Can you imagine every ministry building up a structure of its own to make use of its property? We do not consider it orthodox or effective and rational. In addition, we disagree with the methodology, in the selection process of the director of this service, since this will be done by a decision of the Minister of National Defence, following a call for expressions of interest only posted on the official website of the Ministry of Defence.Why not open gov, so that it is more open, transparent and of course we have a better, broader representation? At the same time, we consider that the Armed Forces Economic Body has staff who could be exploited in such a way. Article 15, in particular paragraph 2, describes the structure and responsibilities of the HRF. In particular, it is stated that special advisers and special partners may be integrated and offer services to the departments, as well as posted administrative staff serving in the Office of the Minister of National Defence. So do we want, in such a structure, any advisers and not technocrats specialising in the themes that they have to support? I think that, here too, we should ensure transparency and dignity and not the choice of our 'our own people', of our trusted people. In addition, for the camps on the border of towns, which will henceforth be available to individuals, we believe that the long-term position and constant demand of the municipalities for their concession to local government should be taken into account, even though we all know that the administration of these sites so far has not always been exemplary. There are issues in self-government that should be managed, but that does not mean that this principle should cease. Of course, in this direction we will be able to see better rules, regulatory conditions, commitments and, at the same time, I think it should be self-evident to any management in the urban environment of such areas, such structures, that the predictions of urban planning, the forecasts of land use and what is the case with the building of areas in which these facilities are located are respected. With Articles 17 to 30 of Chapter IV, we have an amendment to Law.383/2011, where issues of careers, graduation, transfer, transfer and hierarchy are regulated. We believe that, in addition to dealing with many outstandingities and possible injustices being dealt with by these articles, there is a need to overcome all the malfunctions and diseases that have come as a result of a pluralism and a fragmentation of the various outstandingities that are created at times. This was done by arrangements that had been followed over time in a number of reasonable ways, but they did not bring about the much-needed result of dealing with different speeds, injustices, divisions and internal competitions which unfortunately created conditions of inefficiency and reduction of working within the Armed Forces. They are pathogens which should be dealt with with with a planned, structured and integrated draft law which I think would be worthwhile, Mr Ministers, to try to structure. Thus, the problem will be overcome in a harmonisation of loose ends and injustices and a climate of competition and healthy coexistence of sectors between themselves will also be ensured rather than a competition that today creates internal issues. In addition, in Article 18 of this chapter - I think that we had also discussed it in committee - we had the opportunity to lift a timeless injustice concerning the development of the engineers of the Icar School and, of course, to address the issue of their non-equivalent treatment in relation to their colleagues in the other schools of the same qualifications, which is an impediment that needs to be addressed. To this end, I would like to return to you, Mr Minister, like a proposal, an amendment which they themselves had called for in the draft law, in order to examine this permanent and just request, even if it was to be dealt with at a later time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Chapter E, under Articles 31 to 34, we have various provisions concerning the way in which contracts are concluded for equipment, supplies, services, works, etc. At this point, I think there is a need for a reference to the need for ways to find out directly in order to support the domestic defence industry. Our defensive industries which have now been afflicted by a variety of problems, which have not been tackled at the right time - which, of course, seem to be unresolved today - threatening the existence of these two defence industries which, in our view, are extremely useful to find a way of rescuing them legally. The time has come to see together rationally how we deal with these individual issues, so that by resolving the difficulties that both NSAs and NSAs face, they will come out of the depreciation they are led to. This deception, ladies and gentlemen, is not only about the jobs threatened, but also about the loss of a valuable know-how that should not be lost, a know-how that has been based in time. With a rational reorganisation of the defence industries not only will we ensure that they meet their demands, economic needs, but also their profitability. In Chapter F and in Articles 35 to 45 we have the regulation of various individual issues. We believe that Article 35 on matters relating to which it relates and on issues which concern the RESEARCH could be taken into account in their requests and comments, which are both reasonable and would alleviate the problems of a world which, in any case, has serious concerns about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude my position, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u116	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u117	In the last chapter, and in particular in Article 43(2), you may rightly give up the military service of the priests and the pedigree monks who are united in the Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem. However, we have also mentioned this in the debate in committee, Mr Minister, on this occasion, how to make it easier for another group, the group of young scientists, both abroad and internal, who, on the basis of studies, were unable to complete their military affairs properly and to help them. Given Brain Drain - which you also clearly agree has taken place in Greece over the last few years of the crisis - and has hit new high qualifications and which these Greeks should at least be helped where we can help them, I think it would be worth it, Minister, to take advantage of the provision of n. Article 4361/2016, and in particular Article 39 thereof. In this we had predicted that by common decision of your own and the Minister of Finance - I know that the problem is his and not yours, because you agree, but I think you can take an initiative - you can adjust the takeover amount of the term of office of the under-represented high academic qualifications, over thirty-five years, so that they can be helped at this difficult time, close these loose ends and some of them will find an opportunity to provide their services in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Dannelly, if you'd like, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u119	I'm hanging up. I'm not going to go on. Let me just say that we will be placed in more detail later on on the articles. Also in Rule 50, and in relation to the amendment tabled by our colleagues, we are voting in favour of it. In principle, we will vote'residents' in the bill, even though we agree on most of the provisions. However, our disagreement in the two main chapters concerning the MMKA and the HRF does not allow us to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u120	We enter the last special speaker, Mr. Katsiki, and then we close with Mr. Saridis. Then the Minister or one of the two will be given the floor, whoever wants. Also, when special speakers are finished, Mr Vernadakis will defend his amendment for three minutes, regardless of the Minister's position. Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in an unstable, uncertain and fluid international environment, full of threats and challenges to the security of the country, this bill comes as the continuation of the development and adaptation of the Armed Forces to modern data, taking into account the strategic interests of Hellenism. The debate so far on the bill of the Ministry of National Defence has proved very constructive in promoting parliamentary dialogue. All colleagues, conscious of their responsibility, have maintained the debate at a high level and have had a substantial background. In response to the majority of Members, even with their negative points, they will certainly be a positive contribution to the formulation of the final text of the legislature. The Minister of National Defence also contributed decisively to this by accepting any observations submitted and by moving them into legislative improvements which were incorporated into this draft law. But I regret to say that I have found that any negative approaches expressed by a small number of colleagues are characterised by their party commitment only. I would like to point out that the bill finally succeeded in matching the intentions of the political leadership with the operational proposals of the military leadership. In more detail, this draft law is based on three main axes: The first concerns the regulation of basic needs for the organisation and structure of the Armed Forces through the establishment of new services and the merger of others. The second pillar concerns the regulation of security and armament issues of the Armed Forces. The third relates to the improvement of a significant number of career arrangements, hierarchy, development and use of military personnel. The bill, among other things, regulates issues such as the unification of the three above Military Schools of Civilian Staff in a single School of Permanent Civilian Air Force, SMU, hereinafter referred to. This arrangement attempts to upgrade the training provided to civilian Air Force officials, while saving staff and material and economic resources. It is also recommended and regulated for a new service to the General Staff of National Defence, MOMKA, which will aim, on the one hand, at cooperation with public sector bodies, in the fields of the preparation of studies and the construction of projects, through the use of resources and personnel of the Armed Forces and, on the other, at coordination of instruments and personnel for the fulfilment of the projects and studies undertaken. At the same time, the institution in progress is expected to serve more general purposes of national defence. This is how the government promises to exploit the capabilities of the Armed Forces and to put them in the service of the Greek people for the benefit of the society as a whole. Let me remind you at this point of the assistance of the technical services of the Armed Forces and their contribution, particularly after the end of the Second World War, when they were invited to contribute to the country's reconstruction in 1957. At that time seven Joint Reconstruction Machine Groups were formed, that is, seven MOMAs, who have undertaken and carried out absolutely vital projects. At a time of peace, at reasonable cost, she was carrying out projects commissioned with various government programmes and even in the island and mountainous Greece where there was no interest in the contractors. Thus, he participated in construction, improvements and initial openings of national and provincial roads about fifteen thousand kilometers. It built airports from the outset or extended runways to seventeen of them, mainly in island Greece. He built hospital buildings, schools, universities, camps and hundreds of others, which cannot be listed because only the most important of them exceeds seven hundred. And so the reasonable question arises: Why has this huge state organization, with the great deal of supply, been dismantled? The answer should be found in the various conflicting economic interests of professional groups and in the policies of the government. The countermeasure for the abolition of the MOMA began after the re-population, when the trade union organs of the joint ventures pushed the governments to cut the appropriations for the project to MOMA. Then, in the 1980s, many of them became unspeakable trade unionist workers at the expense of project credits, and many of them became uneconomical. Finally, in the 1990s, following intense pressure from trade unions, big-workers and publishers, the government then decided with Law 2026/92 to dismantle the MMOs. Once again the private interest was raised above the public interest. Allow me, at this point, to refer to the recent event of the opening of a bridge, just the day before yesterday, in Mount Athos, in the Holy Monastery of Osios Gregorios, by the Minister of National Defence, which, among other things, made two newspapers, the “Dimoratia” and the “Ethnous”, unfriendly to the current government. Chapter C of this draft law regulates the establishment and operation of a new service at the Ministry of National Defence, which will assume the role of economic and legal support, with the sole responsibility of making best use of the property of the three funds of the Armed Forces, i.e. the National Defence Fund, the National Defence Fund and the National Defence Fund, which are not used for military purposes, as well as the real estate of the Equity Fund, the Equity Fund and the Equity Fund, while maintaining the independent legal personality of these funds in accordance with their founding laws. The new Property Development Agency of the Armed Forces, called the Ministry of Defence, will be responsible for preparing projects for real estate use that are not considered operationally necessary through the preparation of appropriate studies. It will propose integrated utilization plans to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the better management of the real estate of the army - and we categorically call this - the transfer of ownership. The consideration will be an income of the funds concerned, free of tax, contribution or fee, but the Minister will also be given the opportunity to allocate part of this to the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Let us make it clear at this point that this is not a sale of the property of the Armed Forces, but investment that will be made, which will benefit both the Armed Forces and the economy in general. This legislation implements the commitment of the Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks, Panos Kammenos, to the development of a long-standing property of EUR 34 billion, which will create conditions for growth for the country, new jobs and a service for local communities. Best use of this private asset of the Funds will bring fruit to the benefit of the Armed Forces, their managers and shareholders of the Equity Funds. Article 17 provides for a three-year term of office of the Chief of HNDGS and a two-year term of office of the Heads of General Staff, with the possibility of an extension of one year respectively. In this way, the prospect of uninterrupted fulfilment of duties and the mission of the military leadership of the Armed Forces shall be ensured within a reasonably stable timeframe for the proper preparation and implementation of their planning. Article 18 treats legislative failure and provides the possibility of transferring to the College of Officers from defense officers and permanent officers, who are graduates of Senior Military Schools of Officials and Higher Education Institutions, as well as the defence officers from long-term and prosecutors who are graduates of higher education in the field of technology, and are transferred to the Body of Permanent Staff. It is also regulated an injustice of years, as officers from the Supreme Military Schools of Officials of the Classes '90, '91 rankings 1988-89, who completed twenty-five years of actual military service by 31/12-2014, are subject to the provisions of the laws concerning the officers of the Armed Forces who completed twenty-five years at 31-12/2012 and are therefore vindicated. The terms and conditions for the transfer of Armed Forces personnel to the Body of Military priests are also regulated. That need arose on the one hand in view of the financial circumstances which do not allow the opening of a tender procedure to cover a significant number of empty organic posts of military priests who have been dismantled, on the other hand in order to exploit the male members of the Armed Forces who apply for resignation or retirement with a view to dressing up the priesthood. The terms and conditions for those wishing to apply for a transfer are also laid down. Chapter E of the bill contains Articles 31 to 34, which defines the framework for the procurement procedure for military equipment in which the contracting authority is required to conclude at the same time as the original and contract, subsequently to support the supply of military equipment to be supplied with the same or other economic operator. The non-signature of support contracts has so far made useless equipment operationally necessary at huge economic cost. In the context of the principle of transparency and the rational management of the state budget, ladies and gentlemen, general staff may conclude autonomous contracts for the supply of military equipment that had been legally concluded with pre-emptive provisions. General staff shall be appointed to carry out all the procedures necessary for the conclusion of supply and service contracts. The estimated value of those contracts should be below the threshold from which European Union legislation applies. Article 36 reverts to the supervision of the Ministry of National Defence to the operation of the Construction Cooperative of Permanent Officers of the Hellenic Army in order to resolve major long-term management and financial issues faced by this cooperative. In particular, the responsibility for controlling the cooperative had been given to the Ministry of Finance since 2011 by Law 4030. However, it accumulated huge problems of a management and economic nature. Article 37 stipulates that for the military personnel of the Armed Forces placed at a potential or self-righteous holiday, the terms and conditions laid down in the relevant regulations on civil servants will apply in respect of the return of their unsuccessful remuneration. Article 40 also excludes from the competence of the College of Public Administration Inspectors the monitoring of disciplinary procedures for military personnel of the Armed Forces. Article 41 provides for organisational changes in relation to the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of National Defence with a view to more efficient operation. In particular, a Committee shall be set up to check the findings of the Internal Audit Unit. The setting-up of the Committee with a pre-emptive judge who will enjoy personal and operational independence, provides guarantees of a non-discriminatory crisis and guarantees more effective energy and the assessment of findings, with a view to combating corruption in the field of National Defence and the efficiency of justice. Chapter G, and lastly, authorizing provisions for the adoption of regulations and other provisions are included. On this point, let me refer to the changes that have occurred since the completion of the discussions in the committee, which are reflected in two more articles. I will refer only to Article 49, which replaced paragraph 3 of Article 119 of Law 4249 and was set out as the beginning of the two-year period necessary to complete the procedures for the certification and integration of qualified volunteers and volunteer civil protection organisations in the register of volunteers, the start of the implementation of their training through the National School of Civil Protection. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this draft law. As far as we are concerned, this project will contribute substantially to solving important and chronic problems faced by the Armed Forces, as it is expected to upgrade both existing structures and the value of executives. The credibility of the Armed Forces, the integrity and transparency of their functions shall also be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to strengthen the fight against trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and establishing a Coordinating Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, harmonising Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Finance and incorporating into national legislation Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC’. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, when the debate started in the Committee on National Defence, on the drafting of this bill, it quickly became clear how it was a draft law with special weight for society, for the citizens and for the Hellenic Republic. The title of “Configure the subjects of competence of the Ministry of National Defence.” shall not assign the size and value of the changes made to the Hellenic Armed Forces with the entry into force of the present. Parliamentary procedures were followed this time. We are not legislating today in the form of an urgent procedure. This gave us the opportunity to work together, with the common aim of improving the proposed law for the benefit of the Greek people. We did manage to change much of the original bill. We configured the bill that arrives today in Parliament's plenary session. The committee has asked for its comments and its concern to be respected on a number of issues. In fact, most of them have been arranged. For their part, Mr Kammenos and Mr Vitsas requested political support for some courageous and necessary reforms. The Central Association, having repeatedly argued about the value of consensus and understanding, could only support this effort. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to attempt a presentation of the extent of the co-formulation of this draft law. A crucial point in our debate was the recognition by all political parties of the need to maintain the names and symbols of the historic schools of SYA, SYD and SIP. It was not something superficial, as everyone who knows the value of symbols and ideas that illustrate them. And our flag is a symbol. The addition of paragraph 3 and the correction to paragraph 2, therefore, without prejudice to the Presidential Decree of Article 46, also satisfys the Union of Centres. There are, of course, the black points. I'm afraid so. For example, you cannot convince me because you have failed to make a convincing argument that union in the Armed Forces is a matter that can be solved by a parliamentary amendment without public consultation. I repeat my proposal, although it has now passed as an article, and I call on you to withdraw the amendment tabled by my honourable Member, Mrs Kozobol, and to bring the question of union in the Armed Forces as a separate bill for discussion in the committee, with the procedures provided for. Having made a request from the Central Association for the withdrawal of this amendment, I return to the documentation of our choice to support the basic draft law. I could only begin with the issues arising from the attempted effort to upgrade the aviation schools. It has been heard that this initiative is more a merger than an upgrade. I believe that this criticism hides one truth. There is indeed a risk that what we are deciding here today, in the belief that we are strengthening the training provided to the members of our Air Force, will remain empty if the content and substance of the military education that the new school will provide is not subject to careful scientific study. This bill has not been able to escape from the tradition of leaving open issues for the Minister as well as for the Presidential Decrees. A lot will therefore be judged on the proposal made by the Ministry to draw up the relevant presidential decree providing for the operation of the new school, Minister. In Chapter II of the bill, after the necessary improvements, a critical question remains unanswered for us. Is it possible, by decision of the CSCE, that MOMCA should be found to build refugee camps? If, for example, massive refugees are starting to come from Turkey, asking for asylum, as they will be at risk from the Erdogan regime, could the CSCE consider it an emergency situation and instruct MOMKA to build the necessary structures? Beyond that, I will repeat my words from my position in the debates in the Committee on Defence, calling on the Minister not to allow any curiosity, because MOMCA will be exposed to micro-political purposes and of course the Greek people will have lost from what has not been. And that's what we're talking about for the Centroon Association. Too many resources have been lost over the past few decades because of failed political initiatives. That is why we are calling for consensus in the political world and for us to take responsibility in the Central Association. All the initiatives taken today remain exposed to the micro-party exploitation. That would not happen to a cooperative government. In Chapter III, we identify the ambitious effort that starts to exploit the property of the Armed Forces. I repeat our joy as a Copernicus, which the property of the Armed Forces has escaped from the Superintendent Soible. It is in Greek hands the responsibility of exploiting the property of the Armed Forces. The improvements made to Chapter III have indeed reassured several of our concerns and we can say that we are now waiting to judge whether we will be able to make use of or eventually sell out a fortune that is currently sitting and still untapped. To fill in here that its commercial value is at the moment zero. However, the procedures provided for by the law are indeed transparent and seek to ensure functionality as a defence in the anticipated bureaucracy. The possibility of using the camps, which meet certain specifications and remain untapped, with Article 13 of this and the correct exclusion of the TAs from the procedures applicable to private investment, could be a source of development. We maintain a reservation, bearing in mind the example of the Municipality of Serres on which my colleague, MP of the Association of Centres Mr Megalamoustakas, will be placed. Perhaps there should be a regulation on cases where the municipality's actions have already given some goodwill to the property it wants to exploit. Perhaps in these cases a discount should be provided for in so-called 5%. Let us not forget that the Municipality of Serres and the Ministry of National Defence agreed, under the provisions of Law 2745/1999, that of the total of three hundred five acres of the camps, the three hundred acres and the other forty-five, already regulated town plans, will remain in the Ministry. Prior to the month the approval of the militia was published in the FEK under the agreement and a ministerial decision has to be taken. The agreement was given and the municipality amended the plan and urban studies. He gave five years this fight against bureaucracy. Our view is where the Ministry is committed to keeping and implementing its commitments. Chapter IV concerning the service changes of our staff and contains arrangements for the common bodies has been and continues to be the most problematic. To some extent this is reasonable and expected, as the issues it is trying to resolve are likely when it comes to creating new issues and new gaps. I didn't manage, too, to be honest with you, to find a way to make any changes. Article 18 in particular, as originally tabled, made it difficult to implement the necessary changes. We will say that in Articles 20 and 21 it is perhaps the only point that the Ministry's argument has not convinced us. On the contrary, Mr Loverd's remarks from the Democratic Assent on priests, who will continue to reach the rank of Brigadier General, are in agreement with us. We will also vote 'present' in these articles. We were unable to remove the injustice of engineers, as was rightly proposed by the Potami. We hope that it will be solved within the time horizon that we believe you have committed yourself to respecting. The amendment to Article 18(10), i.e. the abolition of the words'regardless of empty organic positions', believes that we in the Centres Union are effectively abrogating the whole paragraph. In Chapter V, significant corrections are foreseen, which enhance transparency and weaken bureaucracy, on the procedures for meeting the needs of the Armed Forces and the conclusion of the anticipated defence procurement contracts. A special reference is worth Article 33, according to which it is now clear that the money from any benefit to the public extrajudicial compromises can only be used to meet the needs of armaments programmes. So we're not going to find the equivalent for the special payrolls from here. It is a good idea to provide for the term of office of the Heads. We are in agreement with the question of respect for gender equality, which is then restored and the Minister accepts this amendment. It was important for us and the issue with the funds. Corrections were correctly accepted so that the administrations of the funds actually have the last word and operate in favour of their interests and shareholders. I will make a reference to the crucial issue of the Elefsina Shipyards, which, of course, has been resolved after the amendment made by the Union of Centres and the Democratic Incorporation that you have accepted. The unhealthy movement of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to freeze the relevant bank accounts and jeopardise a critical programme of the Hellenic Navy and the building of the two necessary firearms must not go unnoticed. The mobilisation of counterpopulation and the immediate response of the Ministry led to a temporary solution. With the drafting of the relevant amendment, we give a breath. We should soon consider the overall policy on the exploitation of these shipyards, with a view to maintaining know-how and reducing the cost of the navy's needs. In closing my report, the positive attitude to the drafting of the Central Association, I have to add to the debate some more issues. We are very interested in restoring the injustice of the Armed Forces pharmacists. It is also very important for us to have a special dialogue to find further use of the valuable human resources, which are the strains of the Armed Forces. Finally, I want to make it clear that every law is judged by its application. Our vote in favour is not a 'white check'. We will closely monitor the implementation of the present. We will fight for the implementation of the Kozobol amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u124	It's an amendment to SYRIZA Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u125	...and we will show, in the exercise of parliamentary control, all acts or omissions of the government which oppose the good intentions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Vernardakis, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u127	I'm going to need a lot less time, Mr. President. I have tabled the amendment with a general number of 565 and a special 52, which concerns the staff of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime and Financing of Terrorism and Control. This staff is working as a distraction. The agency shall have no funds for the payment of the remuneration of officials, except for its operational costs. This amendment solves the question of continuing, because so far this is the case, i.e. payroll payments are still burdening the services of origin of its seconded employees, its proper functioning and the regulation of the payroll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bernardakis. Mrs Aylonitou, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. The result of the failed coup in Turkey can only affect our country. It may be that geographical proximity with Greece will facilitate the escape of Turkish coups in our country - of course, this is why justice, which will identify and attribute the responsibility for each of the individuals separately - is not possible for Greek democracy to provide political asylum to people who have proved themselves - I would point out that, if they are proved, there is evidence - they were bombing, indiscriminate citizens by air, in urban areas a week ago. Such acts have been recorded in videos, they are crimes against humanity and in no way, under any pretext, should be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u130	Is that your personal view or the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u131	Personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u132	The Member expresses his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u133	Not always. And not in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill: "Department of Defense Arrangements" seeks to regulate various issues, with a view to the proper technical functioning of the Armed Forces always within the context of current economic closeness. It also demarcates on some issues a fence between the Armed Forces and the country's Memorandum Obligations. Such a delimitation is made by setting up the Realisation Service of the Armed Forces, which aims to exploit real estate, funds and Equity Funds, the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence for the benefit of the Armed Forces, their officials and shareholders of the Equity Funds, as stated in the bill. It is also provided for the possibility of exceptional and without an invitation to tender for the use of real estate by legal persons governed by public law and local authorities. Thus these properties remain out of control of the GOI and their management is not consistent with public debt. I think that this provision disproves those who were at stake here two months ago that even the camps are being placed under the control of foreigners for ninety years and other dragons. What seemed to me, however, is that in the debate on the bill in the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, the people who accused us of two months ago that we would grant the camps for 99 years wanted to carry the TIADE, as if they were annoying that the properties of the Ministry of National Defence were not there. Well, ladies and gentlemen, they will not be subject to them and will not be subjected to them. Another demarcation is the recommendation to the Ministry of National Defence of Studies and Construction, MOMCA, with the possibility of carrying out projects of local interest with public and local authorities as long as these projects increase the operational capacity of the Armed Forces in the region. This service, with its expanded responsibilities, can make a decisive contribution to meeting the basic needs, infrastructure, in border areas affected by the crisis. This is how we ensure, by means of Greek means, support for the most sensitive areas in the country, possibly, for the great discomfort of some national and supranational contractors, but for the relief of the Greek aristocratic population. These two interventions are essential to safeguard the Armed Forces from the intervention of creditors and to help and support the State in the border regions and move in the general spirit of the government's priorities, as will be seen in the coming months. The draft law still regulates issues relating to the supply of military equipment in a way that ensures the functionality of the weapons we buy, since issues relating to the supply of ammunition, maintenance, education, upgrading, etc. will be regulated at the time of supply of the weapon system, with the compulsory simultaneous conclusion - for each system - of contracts, then on support - of the follow-up to the follow-up. So it will eliminate the phenomenon of buying an expensive weapon system without its ammunition, which has happened in the past. Weapons that are not in the operational state are as if they are not there and we are not going to perpetuate this situation. At times in the past, however, military supplies went according to the height of the hatred. The company selling tanks, buying tanks. If he didn't give a good mistress now, the one selling their ammunition, stayed the tanks without ammunition. That ends here. There is still a regulation on military matters, which I cannot mention, because it reveals as much as anything else the maliciousness of the past. The bill provides for clergymen that commercial Navy Academies graduates are transferred to the Hellenic Navy and aircraft and helicopter pilots are transferred respectively to the Air Force and Army Air Force. This self-evident thing to be done in Greece needed special law, since the relative divisions of military troops were traditionally a political privilege. I shall conclude, Mr President. If we want to maximize the country's defence capabilities, we must at last be able to do so, not only for reasons of justice but also for reasons of efficiency. Today's bill covers and improves many necessary issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. I think it covers them satisfactorily. Because we have to consent to such matters, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. I have the commitment of the Minister on all the issues he has mentioned, that he will give a definitive answer, because they have been pending for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mr Kalafatis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of National Defence, which concerns the Armed Forces, at a time when it is very delicate and very critical. I take this opportunity to make a very brief reference to developments in my neighbourhood, our neighborhood, and to highlight three points which I think deserve to be said: The first is that the heads of the relevant ministries, national defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should in this very delicate turning point be particularly careful when they are in their position. It is very important that the message emits for our country, through locations, when the crises are at their peak. It is therefore important that the Heads of Government, the Prime Minister himself and, of course, the relevant ministers, should pay great attention to the wording of their words. The second is that there is a clear international and internal legal framework, which does not leave much room for the management of specific issues, such as the ones that are currently running in our region and for which we actually have one reason. So that's a given thing. Invoking the application of international and domestic law alone, I think it is a position that covers us all. The third is that we, as a New Democracy and myself, especially on national issues, wear the shirt of national Greece. On these issues which are at stake - and if you want - both the prestige and the interests of the country are very careful and we speak Greek, synthetic and united. With regard to the bill now, Minister, if we would like to talk about a bill, which is the epitome of good legislature, we would certainly not be talking about this bill. I'd rather say the opposite. We have here a string of many small bills, a text without beginning and end. We have too many amendments. Needless to say, we have said infinitely that this issue of the amendments must be sorted out. Some of these amendments are separate legislation on their own. Indeed, with reference to issues which have nothing to do with the Armed Forces, such as the amendment that is a piece of legislation on its own, for the Local Government. One is that. The second part to be pointed out is the issue of tariffs. You know, in every provision of law, there must also be a costing of the application of the regulations. Legislative texts are not just references or verbatim texts. It is the map, the canvas on which there will be implementation policies. And implementation policies have, of course, a cost. So here, in these regulations, which are regulations relating to a number of issues, we see that there is no minimum cost. This is important. For example, there is no clear picture. What's gonna happen? All these issues raised in the legislature will fall on the already established budget of the Ministry of National Defence? Will you ask that the budget be raised by the government, that is to say, even more money be made available, and we know very well that the economic situation in our country is bad? I would therefore like to say that we do not put issues in the legislative text which, when we go to implement them in reality, cannot be implemented. Thirdly, we are talking about MOMKA, which is a transformation of MOMA. I understand that there is a very positive picture in relation to MOMA from the work that it actually produced in the '50s, '60s and '70s mainly. There are too many questions, however, and they have also been put by other colleagues. For example, what will the army charge on this? There is a possibility - and I think there is - that there is something else, a separate project from what the Greek Army is obliged to do by both the laws and the Constitution. There are issues of study. Is the role of other design or construction? To what extent will the outsourcing reach? These are issues which should be put forward and they want answers, so that the role can really be clarified. Because the idea - if you'd like - in her first-class expression sounds very interesting. It is a question of how much it costs both the army and how much it really can work. We have too many - and I personally have too many objections to that. The fourth point is the exploitation of the property. Our rapporteur, Mr Davakis, has said so to you. Open doors are being violated in this regard. We have a specific point of view. We've expressed it. It is a text - let us say - registered, legislated. Of course, we are the first to believe that public property should be exploited, but in a way that ensures 100% of the interests of the public property of the army, of military property. This can be done by setting up a legal person governed by public law, where all three funds will be held over there. We think this is the clearest, clearest way to avoid anyone else - if you want to - complication. Finally, it is the famous issue of trade unionism, which came in the form of an amendment, and finally comes to be voted on as part of the bill. There is a great question - not to say no to you - from a large part of the Armed Forces, from the people who command the Armed Forces, but also more generally, if you like, from someone who is not closely involved with the Armed Forces and wants to use only common sense and common sense. So, is the hierarchy really going to be replaced with this? There is a great risk, not to say for sure, that if union is in the form that you want to enter the Armed Forces, the first problem we are facing will be the substitution of the hierarchy. It will be possible for alpha, beta, the gamma officer to go to his party leader, not to obey the military and discipline hierarchy, which is the main feature - if you like - that exists in the Armed Forces. Of course, this will gradually lead to the dismantling of what all of us, all of us Greek and Greek women have as a model of administration and management - and if you want to have a key depositary of the interests of the Hellenic Republic - to a very large extent and it is something we do not want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kalafatis. Mr. Gregos, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. It is truly tragic, but it is common for Turkey to see attempted coups, to see civilian slates smuggling and tormenting soldiers, soldiers shooting civilians, but unfortunately there will also continue with unforeseen situations. The flow of illegal immigrants has already increased and the challenges against our country continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u139	Zero's the streams.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u140	Is that official? Do we have them? Is it zero?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u141	Sure. It's official.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u142	No evidence is at risk, as usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u143	No, because your data is changing depending on the circumstances. Whether it's Erdogan or it's someone else, the danger will continue to be the same. If now, as you said, the flows are zero, we fear that if things change, Erdogan will increase, and of course he continues to threaten. We are against the usual practice of tabling amendments to irrelevant bills. We keep saying that and it is never observed, but today I can say that it is an exception. This bill, however, is serious enough for it to be put as a wedge today. Every bill concerning the Armed Forces and the relevant Ministry is particularly serious. It is also known that the Army is the part for which the Greek people have the greatest appreciation and love, unlike politicians and journalists. Governments have so far been trying to take advantage of this grievance, this prestige, this number of United Powers, men and women, except that the title of grievance has actually been the case for all of them. The Minister has repeatedly promised that the funds for the Armed Forces have been secured. Evidently they have also been entered in the relevant codes, the CA. In the bill some changes were made for the better, and some articles move in the right direction. In addition, thousands of soldiers from all branches are supporters of the Golden Dawn and even two generals are devouring the European Parliament elected with the Golden Dawn. We are also in daily contact with senior and senior officers, officers and soldiers, who are informing us of the problems and solutions that can be given. In particular, for the long-term pensions of volunteers, we keep the Minister's commitment that the matter will be resolved in 2016. If I understood correctly, we're talking about 40 million euros. It is economical, of course, but above all it is a matter of survival for all of them and their families. Servants in the Armed Forces and Security Corps are not just civil servants. There are monuments throughout the country and, of course, we have denounced it several times - they cannot be at the Immigration Policy Service that is criminally implemented. This makes them particularly angry and poses enormous risks to their health. For all the articles and amendments, we always vote on the basis of the specific interest, by extension, and we have said that 1 euro should not be cut from the Armed Forces. Wage issues, like insurance, should not be traded with international loan sharks. A country is strong when it has powerful Armed Forces and this country can only guarantee the continuity of the nation. Our special speaker referred to the articles and amendments on our attitude and, in particular, Article 50 and its importance. This should be a separate bill or rather not submitted at all. Our country is surrounded by hostile states, Turkey, Albania, Skopje, states that are in charge of our national sovereignty, states with which we are separated from rivers of blood, states that have not given rise to their crimes, which have not issued the murderers of Isaac and Solomos, who have not returned prisoners of war, who are violating our borders every day and threatening war if we exercise our sovereign rights. Indeed, some morbid minds are also in favour of a Greek-Turkish friendship and want Turkey to join Europe. From nowhere, of course, no such relationship arises and, fortunately, the people of Europe are aware of this. Because the previous speakers also referred to yesterday's "black" anniversary, the Golden Dawn has repeatedly stressed that the Cyprus file should be opened immediately and that the Greek people should learn all about the great betrayal, because of course for us Cyprus is not at all far away, nor should Turkey ever be called as a guarantee force to intervene within Cyprus. As there is no time for history lessons, I refer the Greek people to yesterday's newspaper of the Golden Dawn where all the great truths are written: "Islamist terror over Europe". Inside writes all the elements, "The traitors of 1974". The heading is as follows: "By law of 1975 the criminal prosecution was postponed for all offences relating to the case of Cyprus". We could say a lot more. Finally, we call for all injustices to be lifted against the officials in the Armed Forces and for transparency and justice to be sought. We are calling for the upgrading of services, for the proper use of staff and all the material and technical means. The role of the Armed Forces is clearly defined and no one is legalised for anything contrary. We are here and we will be here to defend all their fair demands. Because with a united and strong people and a military we can face all the great risks that threaten us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Mr. Jellonis, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u145	Since yesterday, forty-two years were completed by the Cypriot tragedy, it is important to remember that the Cyprus tragedy took place after the betrayal coup against Makario by the april dictatorship. That is the story and we must not forget it. What needs to be done, however - and this should concern us above all - is that it is incomprehensible today that a Member State of the European Union is under military occupation and that a democratic and sustainable solution must be given to a single Cyprus. In relation to the bill under discussion, the special speaker from the Democratic Association has been placed, Mr Lovers, as has the parliamentary representative to follow. Minister, a timeless and permanent request from the Government was the concession of the inactive camps within the urban fabric of cities in local self-government, for the creation of green spaces, for cultural sites. I fear, however, that the draft law overturns these procedures and this permanent request by the government for the assignment of camps, where and where the process has already been going on and developments have been under way for many years, as is the case with the camps of the Municipality of Serres and, in fact, the 'Emanuel Papa' camp, 'Papalouka' and 'Philouka', which is not used in the Lefkonas. I would particularly like to point out that in Article 10 and 11, as defined by the Realisation Agency of the Armed Forces, it says that its aim is to exploit the real estate of the National Defence Fund, the National Defence Fund, the National Defence Fund, which is not used for military purposes for the benefit of the Armed Forces and their officers, as well as to exploit the Equity Fund of the Army and the Navy. Article 11 states that this use may also be made by the municipalities, but subject to one condition: if they pay an annual price of 5% of the objective value. What municipality can do this today when they have a 60% cut in what the state had to give? I now specifically come to the camps of Serres Prefecture. In this category there are other municipalities in the country, which are decisions - and I will put them in the Minutes - where there is already 'Arbena' on the part of the Ministry of National Defence and the municipalities and these procedures have been launched. There are also signatures from the respective ministers at this time. I would like to present the municipality's decision since 2011, in 866/2011, calling for these camps to be transferred. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Subsequently, with the then Minister of Defence Mr. Venizelos in 2011, this request was accepted. It was followed by the subsequent Minister, Mr Beglitis. The process proceeded and was accepted by the Ministry of National Defence for the "Papalouka" camp to become a "cultural centre and museum of Konstantinos Xenakis" under No. 900.08/95320 on 20 May 2011, as accepted by the Rupel Infantry Brigade. Then comes the document of the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Avramopoulos, dated 15 March 2012, on "Addressing a final decision - proposal of the Municipality of Serres on the development of the Emmanuel Papa camps", "Papalouka" and "Military Lefkona warehouses". I table the decision of the then Minister, Mr Avramopoulos, in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to stress that the Municipality of Serres is the only municipality that has chosen to build an area of former camp by multiplying the value, a move that favours the Ministry of National Defence in many respects. In order not to be long, at the same time the municipality carried out the necessary urban studies to upgrade and exploit the individual areas of the camps, as foreseen by Law 2745/1999, so that the final studies satisfy both the needs of the municipality in public purposes and green as well as the military service by building the percentage that will remain the property of the Ministry of National Defence. In fact, it is for this reason that the FEKs for the approval of a building in the 'Emanuel Papa' and 'Papaloukas' camp have come out. It's number one. FEC 110 of 17 June 2016 and FEC 95 of 26 May 2016 on the ‘Emanuel Papa’ camp. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mikhail Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Previously, at the beginning of the placement of the special speaker, Mr Loverdus, you said, Minister, that this is not the case, that this will not be the case. The camps belong to the citizens of Serres Prefecture. The sites of the former camps are essential and necessary for the survival and future of urban cities, where the camps are inactive to strengthen, as I have said, green and other infrastructure. In fact, the Municipality of Serres has taken initiatives and has integrated these camps into the MAPS network, military areas where public spaces are exploited, which is funded by the URBACT 3 programme and has also submitted a proposal to the INTERREG Greece - Bulgaria, after drawing up all the necessary statistics, architecture and electromechanical studies. I believe that you understand the right request in relation to remaining these camps where procedures have been carried out in those municipalities, such as the Municipality of Serres. That is why I call for a legislative improvement for the use of inactive camps in Article 10 to exclude from the transfer to the specific Armed Forces Settlement Agency the inactive camps, for which there are already agreements with the Ministry of National Defence and which have been approved by the relevant towns. Minister, I think you understand very well that these public spaces belong to the people, and we should not under any circumstances move from the logic of 'inactive camps belong to the people' to the logic that 'inactive camps are dived, sold out for the Armed Forces and their executives'. There is property to meet the needs of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u147	Of course, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u148	Because the Serres were mentioned twice by the previous speaker, but also by another colleague, I would like to say that these camps are not included. It's clear. We've made it clear many times. Where there are agreements...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u149	Why don't you just...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u150	But we gave you the CD. There's no one in Serres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u151	Why don't you make a suggestion, so where they exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u152	But can we ever violate the continuity of the state?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Jelloney, please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u154	I'll make it clear to you. Transitional provision would need to be made if this draft law had been made for the abolition of certain agreements. There's no dismantling. Where there are agreements with the funds and these agreements have been signed by the Ministry of National Defence, we will not break the continuity of the state. I'll tell you not this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u155	No price?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u156	The price, calculated at 5%, can respond to a built-up area. That is, if the forty-five acres, for example, of the Serres are a built-in area, on the municipality's side is a consideration for building housing for the soldiers there. So don't worry, where there are agreements, they will apply. While there are proposals in other regions on the part of the Local Government, which will satisfy a corresponding price with such contributions, we will examine them and look at them with priority as regards proposals from the private initiative. We're not going to rent all the camps. I wish there were synergies with the municipalities, I wish we could make green places and, respectively, have a chance to create settlements for the benefit of the staff. That's the point of the bill. I would like to tell you that we are also open to colleagues from all parts of Greece, to come - and the colleagues of Serres - one day to the Ministry to discuss this together. We're open. We don't want to set up an armed force operation. But I would like to tell you that since the 35 billion assets of the Armed Forces, the revenues have so far been EUR 1 million per year. This cannot go on. We must take advantage of this property, first in the interests of local society, the interests of citizens, green places. I wish there were such proposals. In the "Riga Ferraio" in Thessaloniki, for example, where there was an agreement, we sat with the municipality, with the district, with the MPs of all parties and we are open to talk about them. 5% is not binding, in that 5% of cash should be provided per year for this plot. 5% of this will be appreciated if the contribution to the Armed Forces is equivalent. If we build in the built-up areas apartments or small houses - we, as you know, prefer to be two-storey houses, which will house a family - and some other facilities for the officers and officers of the Armed Forces, we will do that as well. I assure you that. Don't worry about the Serres. He's not even in programming, and the deal is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u158	No, Mr. Jelloney. Please don't dialogue. If you do a dialogue, the Minister will answer later. The Rules of Procedure forbid it. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u159	I have listened with satisfaction to the Minister, but I have asked for a proposal to be made...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u160	My statement is true. I'm telling you. It's my statement, and I'm not going to break it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u161	Please, no dialogue! Mrs Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the way in which this particular bill was drafted. I think it's an exemplary way of legislating. During the committee meeting, and the two Ministers attending, we listened to them, we discussed amendments, we heard opinions and finally we have a text that comes here for discussion and vote, which has been enriched with the views of all the Members of Parliament from all sides. For the bill we are debating today, I would like to say that all its provisions have a positive sign. Military training is being upgraded by the merger of the three Schools in one. A new Service is being set up to the General Staff of National Defence, with a view to the preparation and implementation of construction studies in cooperation with the municipalities, MOMKA, following MOMA, which no longer exists and had contributed so much in the past, as we know. The three funds are consolidated, with the aim of exploiting their assets, and indeed defines the way in which this property will be used, so that there is transparency, to be a benefit to the shareholders of the funds. Staff members are regulated topics of service development in the Armed Forces. They deal with procurement issues, so that contracts are made with even greater transparency. I would, however, like to dwell on the provision of Article 50 of the draft law, which establishes the possibility of active military troops forming associations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that under Article 12(1) of the Constitution and Article 11 of the ECHR the freedom of association of citizens is guaranteed, as was stated in the pre-previous constitutions, the right of association and the establishment of unions aimed at non-profit-making purposes. This individual right is granted indiscriminately to all Greek citizens, regardless of social or professional order, and its exercise is subject to the special provision of the law, i.e. that the activities of the citizens are not contrary to other provisions of the law. This particular reservation is, of course, made to all citizens' activities, a commitment which every citizen is obliged to observe in the context of any action taken by him to the public. The officials in the Armed Forces are Greek citizens, who are in a deliberate special relationship of power to the State and a special regime of discipline. However, none of the provisions stipulate that this group of citizens may not enjoy any specific rights, it may not exercise any specific rights. In fact, Article 4 of the Constitution stipulates that all Greeks are equal before the law and enjoy equal rights. So this particular last provision that I mentioned requires that the legislator does not create any breaches in the universality of individual rights. The officials of the Armed Forces are not a special category of Greek citizens who are outside the scope of constitutional guarantees, nor can a presumption of differentiation apply to them as to the enjoyment of all regardless of the individual rights provided for by the Constitution for all Greeks regardless of sex, social or economic order. It is therefore a constitutional right for officials in the Armed Forces to establish associations in accordance with the law and the state has the right to adopt those provisions, which will enable them to exercise their right to exercise this right. In order not to pretend, this right is already exercised by this group of citizens. We all know the associations that operate in the Armed Forces. So let's pretend. They are typically acting illegally. It is precisely this gap that is now coming to cover the provision of Article 50. I say that it is Article 50 because, first of all, it had been introduced as an amendment to the draft law on committees and then, after being accepted by the Minister, it is now the provision of Article 50. Under this legislation, the active soldiers of all branches and grades of the Armed Forces have the possibility of forming associations of 1 degrees in each region or region, as well as federations in second degree, the Panhellenic Federation of Primary Regional Unions. This Article regulates how associations operate and how their institutions are elected, which meet in non-working days and hours and how their institutions operate. It also lays down, by way of derogation from the professional associations laid down in Law No 1264/1982, the measures which those associations of servants are prohibited from carrying out in the Armed Forces. For example, they refer to the forbidden actions to declare the strike, to participate in all kinds of political events, to involve in any way in the management of units, organisation, structure of the Armed Forces, etc. I therefore cannot understand the reaction of some Members, particularly the New Democracy, to this particular piece of legislation. In fact, some interpret that, given the opportunity, they will abolish this provision. The establishment of a right laid down by the Constitution, which was judged by the Areo Ice as required, is an issue of equivalence between Greek citizens, it is a question of democracy in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kosobol. Ms. Big Economics, Member of the Central Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that the country's national defence is a very serious matter and that under no circumstances should we play micro-political games when we talk about the defence of our country, especially for our country which, because of its position, is in such a situation and we must protect it. Thus, this draft law seems to me to present some shady points, which are of particular concern. Examined and evaluated by Article 5, a study and construction unit shall be established. Indeed, in theory, it sounds very good, it is excellent, that the Greek Army proceeds to construction works and that is important to the local communities. But Article 7 comes, where all powers and decisions are given to the Minister of National Defence. We are very concerned about this. Don't forget, Minister, that we need to learn from the mistakes of the past. Do not forget that your predecessors were found to be inspected, condemned, for the arbitraryness they have done. So, rather, the final decision should be made by the Minister with a collective body and not just the Minister of National Defence. With regard to Articles 23 and 24, which concern insurgent doctors - nurses, Minister, you know that the Greek islands are facing a serious problem with shortages of staff in hospitals. I am very well aware of these problems from the complaints that arrive at my office, but also from personal experience from my island, Kythira. I would like you to look very seriously at the fact that military doctors are being exploited to look at locusts. Because I believe that the military are not just serving the army, but also the entire nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u165	They're sixteen doctors on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u166	Yeah, I know. I am pleased that the Minister, Mr Vitsas, on 30 July, will come to Kythera for the Feast for Admiral Philosophy, so he will find out for himself. I'll be there at the celebrations. Fortunately the Kythera Hospital is an institution and is not a state hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u167	When are the celebrations?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u168	On 30-31 July. It's gonna be the Navy band. It's going to be a big celebration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u169	We'll be across, and we'll be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u170	You won't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u171	I am sorry, Mr President, but we should also have some ad in Kythira so that we can have tourism. Article 28 provides for a change of Judges who participated in various committees. However, the criteria and transparent procedures for the replacement of judges are not laid down at all. That's what's bothering us again. Finally, Article 46 provides for authorisations. A presidential decree will be issued. This is vital. Indeed, Minister, as my fellow Member, Mr Saridis, pointed out in the debate that has taken place in the committee, this is a complex matter and particular attention needs to be paid to it. I am also very pleased that my two boys - and I do not know if this is being observed - served at the border and especially at Evros. I wasn't a congressman at the time, and I'm glad what they served on Evros. You made a promise to keep this. I don't know if you're holding her. It would therefore be good to have an extensive debate from all the parties, as we said before, to make a decision together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, too. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsats, has the floor for seven minutes. Is that enough, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u173	I guess so. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u174	Say the order later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u175	First of all, we have to resolve a matter. I will do something that is usually not customary, but because both the Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Incorporation and the Potamian Parliamentary spokesman made a comment, I will do this: I will give the faithful narrative of my interview at the MEGA on 17 month to avoid unfortunate and miserable, I would say, crises and, of course, avoid - not by the Members - from electronic publications, who have a Sunday newspaper to make first theme or a title that has never been said, such as the amazing title that I said 'Erdogan is right'. The specula, that is, all its majesty! Once they find it, they'll come and say it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Of course, so far, it has been a very interesting debate at the legal level - not in the House - on international and domestic law. Because that is where things are said, which are dissipating international law. With regard to this, you can get my record interview - faithful transcripting - so you can see it. But I still have to say that it was a noble judgment of both colleagues. Now, in this bill, I would like to tell you that this is the second bill that comes from the Ministry of National Defence and we are doing this, which we must keep to the extent that we can within the Greek Parliament. These two bills were discussed in committee as well as corrections, open to political forces and an open mind by the Ministry's leadership. That is why we have managed to correct some things, some to consent and some to differences - alas, if they do not exist - and that is how to go further. In this bill, first of all, injustices relating to hierarchy and military injustices are corrected. Not all of them. Besides, for long-term volunteers, the Minister has been placed in a short time - and when I say a short time I mean in the next two or three months - once we are over - when we solve and not leave it in the ultimate future - issues relating to budgetary matters, I think that will also be dealt with. So there are also issues which do not concern possible injustices, to be fair and fair, but they concern the fact that life is going on. Life creates new problems and on these problems we must lift and correct what has happened before. Secondly, important steps are being taken in the field of training in the Armed Forces. They remain open there, because particularly in the field of education, life goes on globally as well. The third issue, and I go to the wider ones, would anyone say in areas. A service is formed rather than a construction company which can intervene where there is an interesting local and operational link. That's important. It is also important that there is no interest in - let me call it this way - in the free market, in technical companies, etc. You know, it was something that was generally done now, but here comes a process, a hierarchy, a study. At the moment in General Staff there are requests from municipalities, which concern villages. You know, in my village there's still no way to go in 2016. It's the Perco of Mountain Napachia. He's not on his way. When there was a competition to go a road, it became obvious that it wanted more than 1 million euros. There and with operational interest, to the extent that you control it, you do a study and you say "we with our own powers can do it with 200 000".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u176	Is MOMCA going now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u177	I don't know, because from what I saw, to lighten it up a little, in the demands hierarchy is twenty-eight. So, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u178	It has to go up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u179	But I have to say to you: there are some projects to which - I do not want to mention them, Mr Davaki - the Armed Forces could - but they cannot do so and they will not do so - with EUR 35 000 to build and last years and yet every year it is a project on it and it is EUR 150 000 - every year! - and there are a lot of issues. I'm not saying we're gonna do this. The Armed Forces aren't a construction company. This thing is clear. We will need a study, we will need possibilities and what we are going to do to help these countries - with our forgiveness - with our country's ballots, with these fewer possibilities to do them, since we have the possibility. Thirdly, the great proportion of the real estate of the Armed Forces in defence and for the benefit of executives. I would like to say a point here. For example, the Serres issue has come again from two occasions. For the first time, I see you telling someone that it is not about the bill, it has nothing to do with you, there is already agreement, there is something that is already going on and coming and saying 'no, it is about us'. To invite them to focus and find not as the Armed Forces, but as a government funding to become the cultural centre, to find the funding within these difficulties, which local government has - because that is the main and not the other - to invite them to help us all to do so, so that the city of Serres can get it and say 'no, it is our concern'. We need to get away from that logic. Let us say that the day after tomorrow and with the contribution we have already formed a good situation in Bloc 15, the place of testimony at Camp Karaiskaki I and II, in order to form a Museum of National Resistance and overcome, to remove obstacles to the concession of a place and the Municipality of Peristeri, so that there can be popular access. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will need a minute or two and I will be done. It's not about the bill. At the same time, I would like to say that the funds will continue to work. We will make use of that piece of property - and I say again - which has a usable character. We're not going to use whatever camp is inactive, whatever property we have is inactive. It must be understood that it must be done where there is an interest. In front of this local government has the first reason, the first chance to find solutions together and help the Ministry of National Defence to develop. A section still exists in relation to the famous union in the Armed Forces. We don't have any stunning incision here. Modernisation is, ladies and gentlemen, what applies to many countries throughout the world, namely the military, the military, the military, our officers are citizens and they have rights and can, in this process, have a debate, their rights solved without breaking either the hierarchy or the military needs of the Armed Forces. It is, however, a process of modernization in the country. That way we should see it. At the same time - to respond to something that has been said - we are not abolishing anything. In any case, we can't dismantle anything. Twenty-seven associations have called the committees. We do not abolish them, settle the situation and recognise the situation. Now if the other guy wants to exist like a cultural club - I know - or whatever, if you see his statutes, you'll see what the distorted one was made - in the end might exist. For the amendment tabled, in relation to the Elefsina Shipyards, we must clarify, in order to be aware, that for that part that we voted on in February - if I am not mistaken - no account was committed. We had arranged for 70% to go to the workers and the corresponding one concerning the IKA, the electricity and said to go where it should go. But I want to tell you something I said in response to Mr Davakis, I think. I do not remember, Mr Davaki, whether it was an answer to you or Mr Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u180	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u181	There is a mistake that we are removing at the moment. Firstly, two TNCs do not cost 40 million -40 million we - cost much more. I don't want to say numbers, etc. That should therefore be taken into account. Secondly, the Navy, as far as these Shipyards are concerned, has other programmes. So, with the amendment and the legislative improvement, and in consultation with the Secretariat-General of Public Revenue, we are giving the opportunity to release these bills, mainly for the benefit of workers and not for the benefit of ownership. Because here we cannot legislate selectively in favour of some property. That's where the law will apply properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u182	There was no good coordination, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u183	Now I hope it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u184	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u185	Finally, I would like to say that they come to the House in a short time and three other initiatives by the Ministry of National Defence. First of all, in committee in a very short time - since it has been completed on our side - the text on the national defence strategy for the industrial sector will come, that part that, in the previous procurement law, his 'heart was missing' had not been done. Secondly, health policy issues in the Armed Forces. Thirdly, changes - areas in the procurement law in the Armed Forces. We all want to go to transparency, certainly to democracy, but it is very important and the effectiveness to be able to say that the state is doing it and not just some interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. Mr. Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence, has asked for the floor to read something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u187	I would like to announce a legislative improvement that we accepted from colleagues' remarks on Rule 50. Well, to the new article added by Article 50 of the draft law, Article 30c to n. The words ‘the Panhellenic Federation of the Primary Regional Unions may be addressed’ shall be deleted at the end of the last subparagraph of paragraph 8, and the words ‘the Panhellenic Federation of the Primary Regional Unions may be added’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u188	So does the words 'The Regional Union Councils' go away?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u189	Yeah. The point of stigma is deleted and we put ‘the Panhellenic Federation of the Primary Regional Unions may only be addressed’. In addition to Article 50 of the draft law, a new Article 30c to Law No 1264/1982, in particular the first subparagraph of paragraph 14 of that article, the words ‘The Panhellenic Federation of Armed Forces’ shall be replaced by ‘the Association under the name ‘Plantene Federation of Military Unions’. To be perfectly precise. I would like to say that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 550 and a special number 45 tabled by SYRIZA with the following changes. Some changes have been made concerning equality. Not to read all of them now. I put them in plenary and they will be read by the parties. It's pure for formal reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u190	For volunteers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u191	For volunteers. So we're putting the Major's rank on, we're putting it to the Colonel's grade, so we're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u192	Thank you. Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, has no decision been made to speak with colleagues too? Only the parliamentary representatives speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u194	Contact Mr. Dendia, Mr. Papakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u195	It has nothing to do with Mr. Dendia, you're presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u196	Look. The Rules of Procedure say that the Parliamentary Representatives at their request have him. Of course, we made a deal. If the Parliamentary Representatives themselves fail to respect the agreement, what can I do? Shall I forbid them to speak? I will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, it is understandable that my fellow Member will be able to deal with the arguments of the ministers, but unfortunately, since Mr Vitsas has spoken, we must discuss something, which was not in our intentions. I'll start with that. Minister, you didn't do well. You have not done well, Minister, for reintroducing the subject of your statements. Anyway, you didn't do well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u198	I didn't bring it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u199	Let us take things from the start and discuss what has happened, if you like, but in any case agree on what the regime is. There are three procedures, ladies and gentlemen. The first point is the procedure of the criminal court, namely the illegal entry into the country, which is being tried and in any case it is the responsibility of the judiciary to judge. I am telling you that it does not, as I see it, have the objective elements of a crime, but in any case. The second issue is the asylum procedure. The asylum procedure, after a request for asylum has been submitted, is judged by the Asylum Service and to a second degree is judged by the Appeals Authority, which has the status of an independent authority, and - in judicial proceedings - by the Administrative Court, if there is a negative decision. The third procedure is the procedure concerning the request for extradition. The request for extradition shall be judged by two boards of judges. First of all, it is judged by the Tripartite Council of Appeal and secondly, if there is a negative answer, by the Ice Bay Council. Only if there is a affirmative response to the request for extradition from these Councils can the Minister of Justice exercise discretion. That is the regime, as far as the procedures are concerned. As far as the status of asylum is concerned, it is decided by Greek and international law - you know this - the Geneva Convention on Refugees, the New York Protocol. As far as the request for extradition is concerned, it is judged in accordance with the 1957 Edition Treaty, which both Greece and Turkey have ratified. Now you, Minister, come and say'strong the Turkish extradition request'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u200	But you're reading the text! You don't read the statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u201	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u202	You make the same mistake about the article, which I told you to lift. I give you the faithful record of my statements and you read me a report! What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u203	Excuse me. What I would accept from you - I would tell you at the end - is to say directly here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u204	But I've said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u205	Look, Minister. Excuse me! You're very few months in the Ministry to be interrupted all the time. Don't get a military attitude. Let me finish. You can't interrupt me three times!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u206	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u207	But you can't interrupt me from the Rules of Procedure. Calm down and listen to me. And then say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u208	I'm not interrupting you. I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u209	Carry on, Mr. Teddy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u210	There are the following issues here and I will present them to you. You say'strong and very powerful'. The next day, in "MEGA" you say that the judges will decide on the eight Turkish soldiers, but you are still describing Turkey's request as "strong and very powerful". I ask: what will convince us is that you should stand up and say - and testify, of course - that I have never referred to any request and never had any debate at any station for the extradition request. That would be a convincing answer. If you commented on a possible request from Turkey, then the atom was made regardless of the content, because you are not, in principle, entitled to know Turkey's request. It shall be submitted to the judicial authorities. Therefore, you cannot know the contents of Turkey's request, because it has never been submitted to you. You cannot speak in advance, when there are two judicial boards, because you are unauthorized as Minister and unauthorised as a whole, because it is a matter of court. So if you get up and tell me now that I have never referred to a request for extradition - with any characterisation, strong, powerless, good, beautiful, nice, ugly - then good. If you have referred in any way - even if your statements are falsified, which are likely not to be tampered with - then you were wrong. And the only thing you have to do, Minister - and I would ask you to do so - is say 'insecure' and that will honor you. There's no other thing here. Because I would like to add - and I did not want to say what you are saying - that Mr Cavusoglu appears, who says that Mr Kotzias has assured him. Mr Tsavosoglou may also lie - I know him for many years Mr Tsavosoglou, I have been his Vice-President for five years on a committee of the Council of Europe, I do not remember him lying often but, in any case, we are concerned, our national interest is also the wish I express to lie - but Mr Tsavosoglou said so too. So, what's going on here? Does everyone say the same story? We are now going to the broader of the legislation, because I do not want to trouble colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the issues which concern men and women of the Armed Forces, which concern us very much, we will say first of all - because it is good for everyone to start by talking about themselves - our own things or, in any case, the way we have tried to deal with the major wage cuts or to apply the decisions of Greek justice, because that is also what this is. Apart from the fact that 450 million was given in 2014 to 700 thousand households, what happened in 2015 is that the wages of the Armed Forces officials increased by about 6.37%. This was done under a provision of Law No.4307/2014, which was then signed as Minister of Development, it was a day before I moved to the Ministry of National Defence and a decision of 17-11-2014 that I now signed as Minister of National Defence concerning the adjustment on the basis of the judicial decisions that had been adopted. In fact, we began to give money that the officials of the Armed Forces were entitled. We did not make any increase that they were not entitled to or that they could not claim. However, this adjustment, based on judicial decisions, was not interrupted, remained in 2015 what we or we had signed in 2014. Also - what you all know - from 1-1-2017 the ripening of special wages has been interrupted and we expect whether and whether there will be any positive developments in this regard. We say this clearly to the Ministry of National Defence, the Minister, the Deputy Minister to everyone: we believe in the restoration effort and we are here to help this restoration effort. We believe, in other words, that this restoration is something the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps deserve, in order to conclude the debate. I am going to another point, on which, Minister, I would like an answer. In June 2016, I tabled a question on the operation of the Asylum, First Reception, Program Management and the coverage of expenditure and asked the Ministry of National Defence to delimit its participation. Because I do believe that the Ministry of National Defence, which at least was not at the heart of his duties, has been responsible for the work of the Ministry of Defence, and I therefore want to know what the burden the Hellenic Armed Forces have suffered from handling immigration, is what is being borne by us in the New Democracy. It has been a month since then, and I still haven't received a reply. I conclude with the points relating to Article 50. In general, the legislature, the diligent rapporteur for Officer Davakis, analysed it in detail and in all the articles it was placed in the committee, together with the other colleagues in the New Democracy and in plenary, on our evenings. But for us, the issue remains. The Minister, Mr Kammenos, made an intervention in terms of the wording of a particular paragraph. There is no interest in this paragraph, so I would ask you to incorporate legislative change and see it as a whole before the vote. It is of no interest because it concerns the contact of these associations with the natural regional leaderships of the Hellenic Armed Forces. However, to be clear, we do not believe in this article. First of all, it's clipboard, absolutely clipboard. This is something that is a radical change in the Armed Forces. It cannot come with a parliamentary amendment, which refers to No 1264/1982, and is forced and replaced by a reference to paragraph 2, where 'employer' reads so where 'worker' reads otherwise. These aren't serious things. If the government believes it is legitimate to be within its worthy set. I wonder about the Independent Greeks, but that's their thing. In any case, the government can exercise its legislative initiative, bring about a serious piece of legislation, at the beginning, and at the beginning, by weighing together and beyond, to bring it to the committee, to discuss it, even by disagreeing, and even by adding our opinion and by enabling the government to come up with a worthwhile legal basis - beyond others - but also essentially legislative initiative. Such issues should be introduced with a parliamentary amendment, in which everyone is forced to adapt and words in order to respond to an existing legal framework on universally relevant other occasions, I do not think it is useful. In any case, we are always very careful on the issues of the Armed Forces. We are also very ready to support anything that concerns improving the conditions of life and the procedure for the service of women and men of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. We would like, therefore, Minister and Deputy Minister, in particular in the trade union area, a more serious legislative effort. There was no reason - even if you believe it - to do so in accordance with the procedure of your parliamentary amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u211	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Vitsa, the Rules of Procedure says how long you're going to talk. I say it because we've been through time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u213	I want two minutes, because Mr. Dendias mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u214	You're asking for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u215	As you wish. As Minister, I will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u216	To be consistent with the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u217	First of all, I would like to say that I cannot understand the reason why Mr Denkias said, that we should be asking for the floor and after a certain period of time whoever is Minister will be able to take the floor or interrupt. This applies to holidays for all of us. It's not time. I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u218	This is about the particular ministry, which is used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u219	Secondly, Mr Dendia, because you have again done the same thing that I urged you not to do, not all of you, beforehand. Journalist Hasapopoulos writes: "For these eight detainees, I want you to tell me politically and not in the capacity of Deputy Minister of Defence, what in your opinion should be done? " That's the question. The answer - and I read you as I said, with the salmonism and barbarism that one speech can have - was: 'Look, what should be applied is Greek and public international law. As far as I know, the request of their political asylum will first be considered..." was not in a little time '...but I must say that the issue', rather than the request for extradition, '... on the side of Turkey is quite strong, I would say very strong. In other words, the fact..." and I explain what it is, "that constitutional legitimacy was violated and that there was an attempt to destroy democracy, that is a strong argument."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u220	Why did you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u221	"So what will be done at the moment is that it will be examined first, secondly, and then the process of examining the request for extradition will begin," that is, all that you said. Of course, as a legal person you know - you know that - another is the issue of expulsion and another issue of extradition. Besides, in the publication, I'm actually talking about it - I'm saying it fat - two courts between them. That's what's happening. As a lawman, you know them. I will not come back, even if you ask for the floor. I think it's clean now. Sounded what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u222	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u223	Mrs Vaki, there was an agreement announced by Mr Kaklamanis before me. The parties agreed to speak three Members, one parliamentary representative then etc. Mr. Dendias has asked for the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If we go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not with the agreement, then the parliamentary representatives must go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, have the floor. So, because Mr. Pappas has asked for the floor, you can decide whether to go under the Rules of Procedure or whether to go under the agreement. So the Parliamentary Representatives decide if we're going to get in line...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u224	Let's go under the deal, Mr. President. That is how the House decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u225	With the agreement, Mrs Papacosta says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, let three Members speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u227	Mrs Vaki, if we go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the reason will be given by the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u228	Then leave the Members, Mr President! If we are to circumvent the agreements which we ratify immediately after they have been ratified here, then we shall leave, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u229	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, on a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u231	Do you agree to stick to the agreement or to apply the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u232	The Rules of Procedure state that parliamentary representatives shall take the floor whenever they request it and not in the order of the parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u233	Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u234	I say this because the Rules of Procedure are specific on this matter. If we decide to speak two-three Members in between, which is right, to speak two-three Members to break the procedure,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u235	That is, you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u236	Yes, but it should go in the order that the parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u237	I agree with the MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u238	Good. Mrs Vaki agrees with the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u239	But I have asked to speak after Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Carras, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u241	I agree. But as far as Parliamentary representatives are concerned, it is up to them to follow the order according to when they have asked for the floor and not to go in the order of the parties, Mr President. I therefore agree that the Members should take the floor every three months, but that the Members of Parliament should have our registration order in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Poppa, agree to that, because everyone agrees. They'll talk three MPs and you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u243	You said before that Mrs. Papacosta would speak and then you would give me the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u244	I said it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So if you insist on the Rules of Procedure, you will speak. Mrs. Vaki, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u245	Let's keep the deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u246	I agree that the agreement reached with Mr Kaklamani should be respected by respect for the Members who of course want to speak. So I would like three Members to intervene and then take the floor, as I have asked, and I have been on the record. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u247	Good. You take the floor after the three Members and then Mr Pappas will speak if he does not want to agree on what we have said, with the proposal for the three Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u248	Then let's go in turn, Mr President. After Mr. Pappa give the floor to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u249	Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliament must set an example, and when it agrees, it must respect its agreements, Mr President, and the Bureau must contemplate the agreement of the House and, when there are discrepancies, they must be revoked in order, according to what is agreed, those who violate it - unwisely appreciate and I would like to believe, of course, in good intention. Mr President, I have to say to my dear colleagues and to the political leadership which is here today, but also to the government as a whole, that, because there has also been a bar of statements - protests on the issue of the extradition of the eight, I too have to say this. You have been involved, ladies and gentlemen, in a difficult diplomatic matter, as if you were not due, first of all, by the decisions which you have taken and then by the handling you have been engaged in. Now, of course, you have made the country with your handling part of the problem. So if you don't understand it, have you complicated things too much and what does that show? It shows that there is inexperience or, if there is no inexperience, explain to us what is happening, because a lot can then think as an alternative thinking, because you worked in this way while knowing the facts in the neighbouring country. So I think you're in trouble. You have got Greece involved in a difficult diplomatic issue as you handle it, which I fear if you continue to deal with it in the way that you continue to do it by this time, it will complicate matters even further for the country. With regard to the bill and this legislative initiative, I sincerely wish to say good things, but unfortunately I can only criticise it. You have one or two provisions that move in the right direction, but the substance, philosophy, first of all, the principle of the bill, the core of the bill, is in a completely wrong direction, which is very critical. I would like to explain straight away: the previous speakers spoke, of course, to colleagues, and also to the rapporteurs who have been involved in the whole bill. I would like to focus on one or two issues which I consider to be major. First of all, I would like to say that no one disagrees with MOMKA. No one disagrees with the idea of partnership between the public and the Armed Forces for the preparation of studies and the construction of projects. But I must tell you that this regulation, which you are doing, creates more problems than you are supposed to solve. For example, if this draft law is implemented, you will be dismantled or will be dismantled if it becomes law, the military engineers who are already under-represented, with the result that their operational capacity, with the sole aim of creating a tool - because I am reading it, so I am recognizing it - in the hands of the Minister of National Defence for the service of election purposes 'local' local players, for example, the opening and maintenance of roads, the improvement works, etc., while the Army, the Armed Forces have at this point a great deal of machinery, means and personnel throughout the country, at a total cost of hundreds of thousands of euros each year. Of course, I understand that you are doing all of this to have a tool in your hands, a mechanism in your hands, with the consequences that I mentioned earlier. The second thing I want to say is about union in the Armed Forces. I'm amazed at the fact. Mr. Kammenos is experienced. He knows very well that, for a decade now, this issue has been being discussed, namely whether there should be trade unionism in the Armed Forces or not. I therefore wonder how an experienced politician, head of the Ministry of National Defence, has accepted an amendment that has been too rough, 'on the knee' written, which, in order to be able to stand legally, needs many improvements, and indeed the way it was introduced. I wonder why I wonder. First of all, the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence must be aware and - I imagine - both your legal advisers and military advisers, but also the physical leadership, which I do not think is in agreement with this long-term parliamentary amendment, its sketchy content but very damaging, in my view, in terms of whether you adopt it and apply it and, as it seems, you want to adopt it and implement it. If you didn't understand, this is where you know exactly what you're doing? Here, with this amendment, you are engaging in and engaging in the building on which the cohesion of the Armed Forces is based, namely hierarchy and discipline. And there's something else, the main political chiefs, the ministers of the Ministry of National Defence. Trust in the Chiefs. The Chiefs are in charge of all these matters of administrative care, staff issues, matters relating to their living conditions. So you also deceive the Chiefs of All Arms and say that you consider them to be quasi-imposed as incompetent or as nonexistent in being able to secure the respective interests of the personnel of the Armed Forces if you did not understand it! That is the second issue. A third point to which I should like to make, and I consider it very important and serious, is the issue of making use of the real estate of the Ministry of National Defence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have to say to you - and I shall close with that, Mr President - that in order to make the use in a proper and effective way, a clear distinction must be made between the real estate of the ETH, TAS, and the EBRD, which you do not do. We are in favour of using the property of the Armed Forces, but you should understand that the Ministry of National Defence only supervises the funds and approves their decisions. I have to tell you that the revenues belong to and should be exclusively to the shareholder funds and should not be made available to any other fund, such as to strengthen the deficit of the Ministry of National Defence, which you want to do. I would also like you to answer a question: If the Management Board does not agree with this new tool, which you want to introduce with your legislative initiative, what will happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u251	Complete, Ms. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u252	If the board does not agree with this new'vehicle', what will happen? Don't you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u253	Please, not a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u254	Wait a minute, Mr. President, the Minister asks me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u255	The board's here and he's agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u256	If the Governing Council disagrees with the decision that this asset-user will take, what will happen? You don't expressly say it anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u257	The final decision has the share fund. Look at the legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u258	You don't expressly say it anywhere. You'll say it out loud. So keep the earlier device where the veto was right. So, what is it legislated in what direction? What's the point? If you hold the veto right, Minister, then you don't enter a new arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u259	There's no veto right anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u260	There's today. Ask your advisors. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u261	Ms. Papakosta, your time is over. Thank you very much. Mrs Arapatzis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is being passed in just one session and "santuic" in the bill of electoral law. There was no other need for Greek society in the present difficult economic and social situation than electoral law! So this bill of few hours in plenary is coming and attempting to marry the problem, which should have been solved for some time in the Armed Forces along with voting rules that are very simply trying to help the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to put hands on the Army. It is a set of different regulations under which challenging parties are covered, such as the MMKA regulations, which are a virtual, voter's energy to convince the Minister that it is manning the old MOMA, and that, of course, is at the expense of the Armed Forces. Of course, the bill will allow me to say that it undermines the logic and merits of the law by means of "photographic" provisions, since, with the proposed amendments, the Minister has the right to recruit annually a number of special permanent officers, when this is not required, since the operators have come from ASEAN and ASEAN in recent years. Most importantly, however, in the provisions of the bill by means of a late amendment, there is at least an unacceptable attempt to use the Greek Armed Forces as a source of vote and of course small-party interests. There is an attempt to create an anti-racist party pillow for the reactions that are provoked and will, of course, be caused by the cuts in the salaries of the Armed Forces officials. The amendment tabled to the House by twenty-seven members of the SYRIZA for union in the Armed Forces, calling for the extension of Law 1264/1982 and the active members of the Armed Forces, certainly has a weaker party logic. And it is not only, of course, that twenty-seven Members of the governing party have decided to table this amendment. It is mainly the fact that this amendment was adopted by both the Minister of National Defence and the Deputy Minister, who stressed that syndication in the military is a democratic measure, now having an official government colour. Do you remember, Minister, the cords you launched against PASOK when, as a government, he was trying to integrate trade unionism into the Armed Forces? Do you remember then what you said against trade unionism and partyism in the Armed Forces? I hope you have not forgotten as you have forgotten and what you said as a member of the New Democracy against the Left and the then coalition. I'm afraid that's not another of the consequences of logic, which power works as a Kirky by enchanting those who own chairs. So new customs and customs are trying to bring the government to the Greek Army. They may argue that the members of unions will be banned from public statements to the media, from strike or from posting - imagine the Armed Forces too! - or are involved in any way in the management of units and administration, organisation or structure in general of the Armed Forces, but who can really ensure that the ferry does not open wide open even wide? In any case, it is incomprehensible that such a serious matter should go through the House with an amendment in just a few hours, without dialogue, without hearing bodies, without a thorough examination of all aspects and consequences. I now come to Article 10 of the bill on the utilization of the assets of the Armed Forces. Because, Minister, I felt that the Deputy Minister, Mr Vitsas, has fought us in some way for our concern about, of course, the camps of the prefecture from which I come, the camps of Serres, Papaloukas, Emmanouil Papa and the Lefkona ammunition store, three hundred five acres of camps, so I would ask for a clear, clear, written position and exception of these camps and of those who fall under the same legal regime under the provisions of this law. And I would ask him to be in writing because you will allow me to say that we have witnessed and societalised one of your features, that usually the promises of the ministers and the State Secretarys of that government will have the completely opposite effect in practice of what you have publicly declared. That is why, Minister, we would like in writing in the text of this bill to make the exclusion of this camp clear. For the record to say, Minister, it is timeless to ask the municipalities for their concession to self-government, as is stated in the letter of 7 April 2016 of the Executive Committee of Municipalities of Central Macedonia, which is addressed to you. It is known that the Municipality of Serres, from which I come, has done, following the decisions of your predecessors, a great deal of action to make the best use of these lands. It is known that the agreement says that out of three hundred forty-five acres in the forty-five acres the municipality, as a price, should use them and deliver them to your Ministry. Of course, then, let us say that, when this agreement was reached, this engagement, the SYRIZA officials - and today one of them Members - had said that it was an infamous agreement, that is, to make these forty-five, and that it had to be made free of charge. I'm just reminding you about the story. In any case, because the State, Minister, must have - and especially with regard to the Ministry of National Defence - consistency and continuity, I urge you to commit in writing to the legal situation of the Serres Prefecture and of the other municipalities throughout Greece. There will be full respect for the pretext and in no way will Article 10 and the following affect the less favourable situation which has arisen, i.e. its concession to the municipalities by means of legal decisions and procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, too. Mr Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u264	Minister, on two issues, I will speak on the bill. One is trade unionism and the other is the exploitation of the property of the Armed Forces. I'll start with the second one, then go to the first one, which is the most serious. First of all, we are in favour of making use of it, and we have no objection to doing so and bringing money to the country and jobs to take place. And one euro in, I'll tell you what. But I think it is a good moment to recognise that in the past you have been extremely strict with the Government of Samaras, with the Government of New Democracy. When we were talking in this House about exploiting the property of the Armed Forces with the law that we brought to unify the funds, what was your position, Minister of Defence? Wasn't Mr. Kammenos and all the Independent Greeks on the channels for selling public property? Now what? Aren't we going to have a public service sale? Yes, sir. We'll see how these things are going to happen, because that's what they're going to look like in practice. I'll insist. You give me a chance - to come to the second point - to make your self-criticism too. And you know why I'm telling you, Minister? Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Alexis Tsipras - who is a Prime Minister with your vote, and if you lift your trust in Mr. Tsipras, he is not a Prime Minister - he met, he says, for a two-hour time with Mr. George Papandreou and they discussed the future of Greece and Europe. You're not telling me, Minister, are you insisting that Mr. Papandreou is a broker? That's how you told him in the House, here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u265	His brother.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u266	Do you still think Papandreou family has taken us into bankruptcy to collect the CDS? If you believe them, tell them at the Step, please very much. If you believe them, what did you say to Mr. Tsipras, whom you support as Prime Minister, that he put a broker in the political scene again and accepted in the Big Maximos, who took the country for bankruptcy? For two things are happening, Minister: Or Mr. Papandreou was a broker and he took the country to bankruptcy, and so Mr. Tsipras, who is your Prime Minister, meets with a criminal against the country, or what you were saying was all about Halima's tales, and now you understand it, and you support Mr. Tsipras, who talks for two hours with Mr. Papandreou about the future of Greece and Europe. But be careful, Minister. They can't both be true. Don't laugh at all. Because that's what you've been crazy about the Greeks all these years. Repeat: Watch as much as you smile. If what you are saying is true, then the Prime Minister met you at the Maximos Mansion a criminal against the country and you, as Minister of Defense, to keep your chair, obviously, did not say a word. So choose which one is valid. But with a simple smile, you can't pass over what you've said in the past. Let me come to the point, Mr President. Statements by Mr Kammenos, Minister of State after taking up his duties in the 'REAL NEWS' newspaper. The statements are about the immediate payment of retrospectives for the military, according to the order of the Council of State's decision. In order to understand the sizes, Minister, I read your statement: "The 60 million for those active in the Armed Forces concerned with the implementation of the retrospective decision of the Council of State is 50% of what Mr Samaras gave with an amendment to the Music House". For those who do not know that Mr Tsipras' government - if I remember well in a negative vote by the Independent Greeks, in order not to blame you, but that was obviously in the context of your cooperation, Minister - he voted for the Music House the same amendment as the Samara Government. However, the retrospectives to the military, to which you promised their immediate payment today, two years later, Mr Vitsa, have not been given. Of course, I hear the statements made by Mr Kammenos, who makes written protests to Mr Juliarakis, because these retrospectives have not yet been paid. In spite of the written protests, the retrospectives have not been given. I would like to remind you that on these retrospectives and SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, when we voted in this House at the rate of 50% with the commitment next year to give the other 50%, you were up on the tiles, that we had to pay immediately and that we were not okay with the Council of State and with the military. Why do I mention this, Mr President? What does the Minister of National Defence now say? It accepts, he says, the amendment by the SYRIZA MPs on trade unionism in the Armed Forces. And why is he doing it? Because he believes - beware - that this is something good and will respect the rights of the military and will improve their lives within the units. I'm sorry, the payment of their retrospectives wouldn't improve their lives much better both in units and outside units? Apparently much better? But we forgot that now, because Mr. Juliarakis won't let us. Let's go a little bit on the substance. Minister, we disagree with the Union in the Armed Forces, our rapporteur has analysed this in detail. However, let us assume that your Government, Mrs Vitsa and Mr Kammene, decides to open this chapter, because he believes ideologically, politically and politically, that this must be done. Is that, ladies and gentlemen, with an amendment, quickly - quickly to get away, just to serve the Minister's friends and the Minister's advisers? Is that how it's done? Or is there a real debate going on when we talk about union in the Armed Forces, with which we disagree and I make it clear? What exactly do we want to do? Are their offices within units or outside units, for example? Or is that a minor issue? This debate has not taken place. Don't laugh at all, Mr. Comrade. With what you have said in this House, do not laugh at all. I have only read you two statements - just two - about Mr Papandreou and the military retrospectives, which you have brought both of them. So don't laugh at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u267	Do you want to read you what you said about Samara?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u268	You can read them to me one, of course. And I, when you read them to me, will not stay silent like Mr. Kammenos, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u269	That he's the greatest traitor you've ever said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u270	All right. That's all for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u271	I would ask you very much not to have a dialogue. Don't interrupt him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u272	I will return, Mr President. So why is this amendment to trade unionism, Mr President? There is only one reason because they want to build a party army within the Armed Forces to serve their own interests. Proof that completely randomly the name they found is the same as Mr. Kammens' well-known advisor - the same entirely random one - who will be able, from tomorrow, exclusively to turn Greece around and upset the need for trade unionism in the Armed Forces. So, in fact, and here you are not going to do what you're supposed to say, but go again and check the state in the cheques of your own party interests. Everything else is to love each other. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Please, Mrs Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before entering the draft law to be discussed, to make a comment on the basis of what we have heard. The opposition has a duty and duty to criticise the government, to raise its positions and arguments, to put forward an alternative plan of governance, even though this is also the case with the positions of the International Monetary Fund and a policy of cost-cutting. We're not going to get into this. But exercising opposition in terms of parapolitical, caffeine gossip, based on tweets and ludicrous cries, does not afford you. And with regard to what you said, Mr Georgiadis, earlier on about the Prime Minister's meeting with Mr Papandreou and the CDS, you better look at us some explanations about UBS and about maritime loans and what your party owes and about the debts of your President in the newspaper "KERYKA" and leave the rest. Before entering this issue, I should also like to raise a very important issue in the last few days, which, unfortunately, we have been following, from the step of the House, various broadcasters and all sorts of self-determined analysts. As we all know, over the last few days the very serious case of the eight Turkish soldiers who have illegally entered Greece following the events of last weekend in Turkey and then applied for political asylum. Let me begin by commenting on the level of the analysis of certain colleagues and say that they should be infinitely more careful in their approaches to such issues. We must not be drawn away from dangers, from unsolved approaches to the various blogs or other, dubious, information media. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, has two aspects: the aspect of national security and respect for the rule of law and its institutions. On the first point, it is clear that our country is now being called upon to play a stabilising role in the wider region and to act as an international factor of peace and stability. National security, in this context, requires that the country does not allow anyone to become involved in destabilising situations. This is also very clear on this axis, our foreign policy and national defence policy are moving. On the second point, that is, respect for the institutions of the rule of law, such as justice and respect for international humanitarian law, is clear. The Geneva Convention, the European Charter of Human Rights and the Greek Constitution require respect for human dignity, access to a fair trial and the individual examination of asylum claims imposed on the national territory. So those who try to jeopardise or bow down diplomatic analysts, thinking that they will embarrass the government, should know that this is a very negative role for the country. There are very specific provisions under international law concerning the protection or non-protection of those accused of crimes against peace. However, no one can ask Greece not to function and, in any case, to apply international law. So let us lower the tons, because similar self-determined experts in the past had damaged the country many times. I will now go in and say a few words about the draft law we are discussing today. Let's start from the obvious. This draft law is not a prerequisite. Because a lot has been heard and written lately about, allegedly, the creation of the Armed Forces' TIAD, on military excess funds, etc. and reality is very different. The establishment, therefore, of the Realisation Agency of the Armed Forces' Property, for the realisation of real estate of the National Defence Fund, the National Defence Fund and the Air Defence Fund, as well as the Military Equity Fund, the Equity Fund and the Equity Fund, is carried out under very specific conditions and conditions. Firstly, it is for the benefit of the Armed Forces and their officers and the shareholders of the funds. In other words, revenue resulting from the use of the real estate of the funds will be made available to their own and purpose. There is the possibility that part of the revenue will go to the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, but always for the benefit of the entire Armed Forces. Secondly, property to be recovered includes only those not used for military purposes. It therefore asks, with the insistence of the Civilian Representation, during the committees, to be invited to the committee responsible, in the context of the hearing of the non-parliamentary bodies, in order to express an opinion on the specific selection of the Ministry's political leadership. For what? Do we not all want the return on real estate to be an income from the funds concerned for the benefit of the Armed Forces and their staff? Or do some of us prefer the return on debt repayments? What's your proposal? One more thing. The establishment of the Realisation Service of the Armed Forces Property implies the maintenance of the National Defence Fund, the Air Defence Fund and the National Fleet Fund, the abolition of which, as we recall, was provided for in Article 18 of Law 4520/2014 and was not implemented. The relevant Presidential Decree has never been issued. With the present draft law, therefore, the abovementioned funds are retained in order to confer benefits on the development of the Armed Forces. Objections were also expressed on the annual price of 5% on the objective value of the property, that it is a small percentage. Let us remember that 5% is the minimum, which can be given as the value of using an installation to exploit these assets, as it will be followed by an electronic tender. Now, with regard to the provision on the capacity to trade in the Armed Forces, the positions of the Armed Forces are more than clear: no union in the Armed Forces. You obviously disagree with the relevant decision of the Ice Bay of 2012, according to which ‘the individual right of association enjoys indiscriminately all Greek citizens, including those who are serving in the Armed Forces, who are in a deliberate special relationship of power to the State and to a special regime of discipline, not to the contrary, neither by the letter nor by the spirit of the relevant constitutional provisions’. Do you disagree, ladies and gentlemen, with the principle of equality guaranteed by the Constitution and requires the legislator not to create any breaches in the universality of individual human rights? I repeat: this provision allows the Armed Forces to organise trade unions without breaching their national, social and supra-party roles. It is not, therefore, a question of union in the army to put off the terms of the military. We have also seen this in the successful provision of the right of trade unions. The trade union rights of the active members of the Armed Forces have also been guaranteed in most countries of Europe. I'm going to MOMCA now. With regard to the establishment of MOMKA for the preparation of studies and the construction of projects of local interest, undertaken by the Ministry, which will co-operate with public sector and local government bodies to implement them, objections and doubts have also been expressed as to whether the necessary logistical infrastructure exists or even whether the establishment of MOMKA contravenes European legislation on competition of technical companies. These reservations which have been made lack a real basis, because they are often local projects in difficult areas or in towns, which do not have sufficient staff to complete them, while the MOMCA will be able to assist in cases, for example, of natural disasters. It is therefore not a question of setting up a new public service to replace construction companies. I would also like to mention the establishment of a committee to monitor the findings of the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of National Defence. I think it is extremely important to regulate, because setting up the committee with a pre-eminent judge guarantees more effective energy and evaluation of findings, with the aim of combating corruption in the field of national defence and, finally, justice. The term of office of the HRF is three years and the Heads of General Staff two years with the possibility of an extension of one year. This puts an end to a welcoming practice of previous governments extinguishing the Chiefs much earlier or prolonging their term of office indefinitely. Finally, only as a positive provision can be assessed and the provision that at the place of preference they will necessarily serve following a report by members who are widowed or have at least one minor child, staff who have a spouse with disabilities and who are treated as a disabled child. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law by the Ministry of National Defence, the revenue from the real estate exploitation of the Armed Forces funds returns to the Armed Forces themselves and to their staff and is not used to close the debt holes. Increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the General Staff, governing key security and armament issues and the conditions for cooperation between the Armed Forces and the other public bodies are established. There are also solid bases for combating corruption within the Armed Forces, and the working conditions of their staff are improved. This is, therefore, a draft law that goes hand in hand with the modern needs of the Armed Forces and finally goes for the benefit of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks "Completion of legislation by means of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area (OJ L343, 14.12.2012) and other provisions".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u277	I am sorry, Mr Kefaliannis, but if Mr Pappas wishes to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not with the agreement, he will have to have him. If Mr Pappas, like the other parliamentary representatives, wants to give you his position, he will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Pappas wants to address the Minister today for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u279	Good. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u280	Let's go according to the order, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be talking about today's bill, for us. You have been known from this step through our rapporteur, Mr Kouzilos, that the Golden Dawn will vote against this unacceptable bill. We propose, Minister, that you take it back at this time, that we stop the debate, the meeting and enter it hierarchically, as envisaged. There is this possibility. The Ministry cannot draw up laws against the Armed Forces and at the same time exploit the discipline which exists in the Armed Forces. We have a specific proposal in our programme for the Armed Forces, as well as we have received many suggestions from their executives, which we are working on. We shouldn't play with the Armed Forces! Minister, I would like to ask you a question and you will be given the opportunity to answer it. I would like to ask you if you know what is being introduced today by this bill, which, for the sake of the government majority, will be voted on this afternoon in the Chamber together with an amendment of twenty-three - if I remember correctly - Members of the SYRIZA, who God knows if they understand what the Greek Army means, an amendment that you accepted - the so-called Kozobol amendment, from the name of the first signatory Member - and you joined it, as you said this morning and we saw it, as an article in the bill. The reason for the amendment is that institutional union in the Armed Forces is necessary - we have already heard Mrs Vaki. For the ignorant, responsible and irresponsible people, I would stress that this is not provided for by the military regulations, nor by the laws in force, nor by the constitution itself. And don't hurry, Minister, to get upset and then attack us on our political party, because today you're institutionalizing partyism in the Armed Forces. We here, Mr Cammene, do not speak personally, speak neither with sympathy nor with dissent, much more respect our own institutional role. Others despise the city, the role of Parliament and others behave undemocratic and unethical and do not answer the questions of the Golden Dawn. I didn't print more, I only went by April, it's a lot of questions, and I put them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I say, Minister, that you may be a sympathetic person, as a human, to be a pleasant person as part of a table with a little fish, a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit, but with these dissolutions about the Armed Forces, politically, I tell you that you are not only inadequate, but you are also nationally detrimental. For our part, you will have the continuing political controversy on this huge unrest, brought by your today's bill of trade unionism in the Armed Forces. For you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, say that the only union in the Armed Forces is the nationalist and say anything about any body of any authority, executive, judiciary or any grapple. The only union for the Armed Forces is the Greek flag. Imagine a white strike in an hour of warmth. What are you waiting for today, Minister? To institutionalize the union in the Armed Forces, the partyization and then - we know the story - you will declare it "the Armed Forces S.A.", an S.A. State or problematic, because of the financial hardship of the memorials that you voted for and you will then go to the bankruptcy of this S.A. And the sale! [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I close this first report with a hint, which I made from the Step on September 27, 2013, before Samaras' lousy indictment, with the known arrests of the Chief of Golden Dawn and the rest of the MPs of our party. I said then and I say it today, under the hands of the Armed Forces. A previous speaker referred to the issue of the eight inmates in Alexandroupolis. In fact, I ask what your personal view is, the view of the co-chairman of this government, on this matter? I remember when the PASOK government "flyed" to the demands of the Turks and the Americans and handed over to MIT the leader of the Kurds Abdullah Öcalan, you had lifted a storm of reactions. Now what do you think? Will you help SYRIZA get his own Ocalan, too? And the truth - I am addressing the SYRIZA MPs, who are being cut, sharing asylum and election books to all kinds of illegal immigrant - will you envy and envy the glory of Pangalos? And I'm talking about the former politician, the dictator's grandson, Theodore Pangalo. And an answer to Mr Vitsa, who spoke earlier about this issue, about the eight prisoners of military Turks. How do the Kurds get accepted and get political asylum? Aren't they opposed to Turkey's constitutional legitimacy? Are they not opposed to Turkey's constitution? Why do the Kurds get asylum then? I shall now refer to the major issue, which has emerged for some time now, on the issue of positive findings, in the Mantoux examination, which you referred to this morning, Minister, this morning. You were perverse in the matter. For purely scientific reasons, I suggest that you do not do this again. Do not envy the glory of doctors. You're not a doctor. Do not envy the glory of others who have made doctors of his step. Don't get carried away with the lunatics and loopholes, Mr. Cammenene. They want to present you with things different from those they are. They want to present it all to you. You have experience. You have been the Minister of Government of New Democracy for many years. I contacted the Commander of the University Hospital of Ioannina a short time ago. He told me, among other things, that the answers are expected. Let's wait for them too, Minister. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u281	We have them by name. What you are doing is unacceptable. So you're doing this with the Epirus Officers' Association. That's great! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u282	I spoke to the commander. Please don't interrupt me. I'll tell you and listen to me. He mentioned to me, among other things, in the document given to you by a Member of the Co-population, the commander is expecting the answers. So wait for them, you too, and don't rush. There was, Mr Cammene, incidental tuberculosis in this camp, hot spots you say it. It was a family of illegal immigrants, which was hospitalized and I think a member of her is still hospitalized at the University Hospital. I was particularly surprised, and now you say that yesterday's document - and you reacted immediately this morning - a union of active officers, which does not want to have anything to do with union in the Armed Forces - that is, trade unionism as you understand it, such as your chosen Mr Tsugarakis - does not mention cases of tuberculosis, but carries reasonable questions and the anguish of the troops of Epirus and their families. Why were you alarmed and noisy, Mr. Cammene? He says: ‘How many soldiers have been subjected to the Mantoux test and how many of them have been found positive in the consideration? What is the number of colleagues who, while found positive in the Mantoux examination, did the further second Ingra exam? Will an additional examination be carried out by Ingra? Questions are being raised: Colleagues who have been judged to be positive in mind, why do they continue to work and are not in recovery areas? What care will be taken of them and their families suffering from anxiety and anxiety?" They're the ones to answer. Not political here to your colleagues. And continues: "The military are going to continue to perform services at the refugee hospitality center? Will colleagues who carry out services - work in the other refugee hospitals developed in the region of Epirus - receive medical examinations in order to assess their medical status?' You will answer, Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So do you understand the position of these soldiers, Mr Minister, towards their children and their families? Do you realize and know - I will tell you things that your advisors are not telling you - that his commander until earlier hot spot ordered soldiers to clean up and clean up the tents - to clean up, that is, the feces, why were illegal immigrants deporting themselves into the tents - of these people who were completely different in terms, code of morality, practical, a code of life from us Greeks? So the same commander who had them cleaned up, the same commander now tells them: 'You stay in the container, please, with the air conditioners, don't come out. You are responsible only for the food." Why, is the commander saying this on the hot spot? And to note that the rapporteur for the hot spots has not raised any objections. He specifically said that the way you've done it, the way you've brought it in financially, what should we do? In addition, for hot spots, for hospitality centres, the first students were the 'right's. They opened you up. And speaking of the hot spots, Mr Minister, which you left, you did not have to listen to them - this morning you referred to all the amendments, which you accepted, which you did not accept, and which you said what you reserve for the future. You have not, however, mentioned an amendment. You have omitted - and I do not know if you were doing so on purpose so that people would not see it on television - the amendment signed by the Chief of the Golden Dawn and by all its Members, which concerns the release of the personnel of the Armed Forces from illegal immigrants reception centres. It didn't even sound. Here, I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We want Armed Forces to guard the country and not to clean up the scenes of illegal immigrants and soldiers to become servants of illegal immigrants. The soldiers, who serve at the KAY during the summers, where they go - and well they do - the Greek officers are in a much better position than the soldiers who are in hot spots. That's a shame. That is why we have brought the amendment. If you have the guts, make it acceptable. You also said, Mr Kammene, you have already said that you are the insurance policy in national matters. Really, don't you expose your co-pilot like that? Are you the same? So, Tsipras, what's the danger to national affairs? Think about it. So, are you a double or a legend for our national issues? You brought NATO to the Aegean Sea, you open the Americans' appetite for further cooperation and bases - Amorgos, etc. - You're signing the sale of everything, including the Armed Forces. You have asked Tsipras and you are building a fund where you will sell out the property of the Armed Forces - "Reservation" - you say it for ninety years, you do not call it a sellout - that is, the Tambanization of the camps, for example, for the Greek Army, camps that helped the local society, create a sense of security for her. You've made hot spots down, you're going to pass them in the hands of local and foreign squatters of pluralism against a lens plate and you told the committee that you're going to give these revenues to the officers, the funds, to become homes for Greek officers. Mr. Cammene, the military, the Greek officers don't need any homes. It's enough rent allowance for them. They need confidence, dedication and recognition of their work. The Armed Forces will have to regain their real role, which is the defence of the borders of Greece. Let them regain the respect and honor of the executive, of the politicians, of respect and honor for the historical, heavy and honored uniform of the Greek Officer, who should wear it proud of themselves. I shall conclude, Mr President, and again say that the Golden Dawn is voting against this bill. His vote in a few MPs in a parliamentary leave reminds him of a bill of earlier years, such as this bill of the violent change of Greek language, the introduction of the monotony, which was a crime against one of the constituents of the nation, such as Herodotus, the ommon, the Greek blood affected by the invasion of illegal immigrants and "Greekism", the homoglogue, the immortal Greek language, the mother of all languages, the homonymousness, Greek orthodox, our religion and the homogeneity, that is, Greek customs, Greek values and Greek traditions. We will fight for that, all Greeks, from every time, for that is what Golden Dawn is fighting for a new Greek homeland, for a new Greece, because we Greeks want our country back and we will take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the second practical legislative initiative by the Government in the area of defence over the past one and a half years, a bill which may not have a 'pound', that is to say, does not have a beginning, an average and an end, but that does not necessarily mean that it does not raise very important issues. The paradox, of course, is that the most important of these, which is, if you look at it, and a real part of the defence sector, does not even come from the Ministry's leadership. On the contrary, it comes from a SYRIZA MEP initiative that the government has speeded up its adoption. I am of course referring to the proposal to introduce union into the Armed Forces. This, ladies and gentlemen, is really something worth crediting for as the 'first time left'. The obvious question, of course, to the Members of the Com mittee of Inquiry and, by extension, to the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, is to whom they have just consulted so that this amendment can obtain this content. With General Staff? The Chiefs? With the deportees' associations or the 'union' and the 'federal federation' which has long claimed this status? Furthermore, does the Ministry of National Defence not even have an opinion on this issue so that it has quickly adopted this amendment self-evidently? The answer is obvious. This amendment does not intend to create anything. On the other hand, it comes to impart a so-called legal cloak to an existing regime of "companies", "federals" and "federals", which, up until now, have shown enormous problems in their operation, with the phenomena of intense partyism and grouping, in common "climates", which have resulted in the launching of intercategories, insults and complaints on a number of issues. The Ministry of National Defence, SYRIZA, Independent Greeks and WTO have written this amendment together, and they have melted how it will be introduced into the House, without any consultation, no organised dialogue with the other parties, nor of course with the directly concerned. You have, in fact, brought these associations and the committee of Parliament to give them the necessary legalisation before we can vote in favour of the amendment. In fact, you deserve congratulations because, along with the union, you put the central door of the ministry and officially the partitioning of the army. The second issue, as regards the amendment, is about its explanatory statement. In essence, the Ministry of National Defence adopted a request for the democratisation of the Armed Forces. I really wonder: Was there any doubt, Minister, that the Armed Forces do not act democratically? You have to tell us that, because if you read the statement, it really gives us too many questions. It is truly regrettable that the Ministry of National Defence should adopt such a logic, because above all you should be aware that the mission of the Armed Forces is precisely the protection of the democratic culture of the country and that the officials of the Armed Forces, if ever called upon to demonstrate their deterrent power towards any external enemy, will do so to defend the interests of all Greeks, regardless of their party origin. Two comments on the amendment: You should really look, if anything, to see what is true in the other states. In other countries, it is not just what military associations should do, but what they do, what they are doing, what they are the reason for their existence and, above all, what instruments they use to achieve it. In fact, what is the purpose of these associations? Improve the working and operating conditions of the camps, as it has been heard? Then, Minister, you are abolishing all concepts of military hierarchy within them, under which the commander is responsible for the staff. The most serious thing, however, is that you put these associations within the camps, forgetting that the camp, other than the workplace, is also a place to prepare our country's defence. But is their role of improving living conditions in general or their pensions? Then you should say that clearly and in a very specific way, otherwise everyone in there can find out from a reason for existence and do what he thinks, even 'great' the'snake egg', if you understand what I mean. As far as the means used to express their demands are concerned, I fear that the author of the amendment has remained in the era of the Second Socialist International. It's not just strikes and participation in marches. Especially today, with modern technology and social media, there are dozens of ways of expressing one's demands and, of course, not all of them legitimate. They should be described explicitly, as is the case with all modern associations in the Western world. The fact that you do not do that, of course, shows that everyone is interpreting their role as he thinks. And I conclude with two brief comments on the real estate of the funds and the establishment of the MOMCA. We personally are not opposed - our rapporteur has said so in a clear way - to exploit the real estate of the funds. But we disagree with the manner in which the regulation has been manipulated and the fragmentation of the regulation. I give you one example: What is the legal form of this service? You're saying it belongs to the central department of the Ministry of National Defence. If that is the case, then it should be managed by a senior government officer - whether or not - but not by the market. The market can only be staffed if it is a public limited company or a legal person governed by private law. Do you, Minister, know any other central agency of the Ministry run by a private employee rather than a public official? I personally don't know that. What code regulates the relationship of this person with the service? The Public Service Code, the Code of Personal Persons, the legislation on public limited companies? Secondly, the funds are independent legal persons. It may not be necessary to manage them by another body alone, but only voluntarily, i.e. by decision of the Board of Directors, it confers a specific property by means of programming contracts for its use. By this provision, you are effectively abolishing their self-interest. Thirdly, the exploitation of public property is a very difficult case, involving a number of scientists, who need to have a great deal of experience and know-how. You will be serving it with nine-month-old soldiers, i.e. usually children who have just finished the university, and the most nice thing is that you're running it with the minister's advisers. If anyone so far thinks of the bad practice of all governments, namely, that a Minister for National Defence has not been in his court for more than fifteen months, then we can see what the continuity and institutional memory of this service will be. As far as MOMKA is concerned, there is another innovation here. Perhaps it is the first service of a Ministry whose mission - as you describe it - is not compatible with the mission of that Ministry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. The mission of the Ministry of National Defence is to ensure the deterrent power of the country. If it can help other missions, of course, it is well to do so. But there cannot be any other reason than the Ministry's mission, nor can the limited resources of that Ministry be wasted on non-democratic projects. Even if it were you, Minister, showed the committee with the three examples you mentioned, the social work carried out by the Armed Forces in terms of infrastructure construction. What, then, is the reason to create a new structure? Has the existing institutional framework not been enough, and the one that allowed you to carry out these projects? Has anything become irregular or even illegal? I don't think so, because I guess you wouldn't move on. So what more does this service offer? The answer is that it does not actually offer anything. Whenever necessary, ladies and gentlemen, the Armed Forces have provided with human resources, resources and expertise to the needs of the country. They did the same in cases that you mentioned, they will do the same again if necessary. Your debt and mission, of course, are the Armed Forces to do this from their surplus and not from their misery. At the end of the day I think that's why you'll be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u285	Thank you. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in any collective expression - and indeed legislated - I myself stand with particular respect. Therefore, in such an effort of collective expression in organised sets, such as those of the Armed Forces, one must stand with special attention. It is not possible to regulate issues with particular and heavy content, with a dimension and implications, which unfortunately come with an amendment to the plate, which is then incorporated - unknown how - in the bill to give a particular weight, to come to cover, to cover such a huge event. It's not just a case. It is very deep - it has also been mentioned at the outset - and we cannot, in this way, get to grips with such a matter. Of course, we'll find it in front of us. We owe this reality to stand by tomorrow. Mr Minister of Defense, many times during the previous parliamentary term, which we were, of course, a government, I met you in front of me as a huge hurdle by apologizing to police officers, firemen, port and military, of course, because especially the financial data apply to both the Armed Forces and the Security Body. So I had to apologise, because you'mattered it all', you adopted it all. We were obliged to apologise and to apologise myself, coming from the Security Councils, precisely for these positions. With regard to the adoption of the decision of the Council of State on retrospectives, although my government was given 50%, and then it was committed to the remaining amount, you said you would immediately adopt this decision and give the retrospectives. And last year in the election we heard exactly these positions, that you would not co-operate with any government of SYRIZA - ANEL, if that were not the case. Repeat it and then repeat it. Unfortunately, this was not the case. And you'd quit already. We didn't see any resignation. Recently, in the amendment on wage scores, promotions, wage scales to understand, you have again stated that, if there is no improvement - an amendment, you would again resign. We didn't see her again. Of course you have come to balance this report, your absence of resignation, with another amendment that the equivalents will be found in order to fill this gap. You answer me, Minister, on 28 June, that you have found these equivalents, you have found the codes and you have submitted them to the Ministry of Finance. I submit to the minutes the Minister for Defence's reply. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 1 July, then, three days later, on a timely question by Mr. Davakis' colleague and Head of the Armed Forces Sector, Mr. Juliarakis answers: 'I will be shorter. I have no reason to doubt the opposite of Mr Davaki's question. Both the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Justice and Education will take care. They have plenty of time to submit their own equivalent proposals as soon as possible. They have a quarter ahead of them. I have not taken any such position so far.' After three days, this answer came. Which one of you is lying? The Minister of National Defence, or Mr. Juliarakis, the Deputy Minister of Finance? So, here you are mocking, Minister, and the Armed Forces, and the Security Bodies, but also our intelligence. I am putting the answer to the timely question for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the bill in a specific amendment concerning civil protection volunteers. On the basis of an amendment that you are proposing, which I would say amends paragraph 3 of Article 119 of Law 4249, there is provision for the self-deletion of civil protection volunteers from the registers of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection after two years. In other words, this has ended since 24-3-2014. One could argue that this amendment is correct, because from 24-3-2016, the voluntary groups should have been deleted. But you don't do that. There is a huge inertia on the issue and you are transferring to the unknown future the non-legislation, the regulation of these voluntary groups. There are people there who may have been convicted, not to be experienced, or in terms of health, of being able to offer what they could offer, and of being able to stay for another two years, without - if you will - you may also be able to make use of the authorised provision provided for by the law so that there are specific arrangements, at least until this operation of the national school of volunteers has taken place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, I do not have time because of the end of the year. I will put forward my proposal on this issue. While you had the time, you prolong this vagueness and I would say not only the vagueness but also the vile presence of the volunteers, without any guarantee of themselves but also the work they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u287	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u288	I should like to make a point of order, Mr President. I imagine that time will be given - at least so that the meeting should be organised - so that the rapporteurs can give a reply on a number of issues. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, we have made a detailed statement in committee because time here, in fifteen minutes, is minimal. We have tabled many proposals, as a whole. And for us it is important and extremely 'dangerous' time to place ourselves in the developments that have been taking place in the recent space and in the overall context, namely, called for by the country's Armed Forces to act. I will begin with the decision of the NATO Summit in Warsaw. And I ask you, really: why does no party other than the JRC inform the Greek people of what NATO decided in Warsaw and under what decisions the Greek Government signed, with the consent of course of all the other parties? Why don't you tell people? Because these decisions once again confirm NATO's criminal role. His story is bred in the blood of tens of millions of people and peoples whole and not only in the endless past, but also in the recent, in recent years, supposedly left the communist danger. Why, really, don't you let her know? We have an obligation to tell the Greek people that the decision of the Warsaw Synod looks like a war announcement, to be more precise, looks like a war preparations at the last stage. And the soldiers understand it, and it's only enough to read it. Only to see the provision of both NATO decisions. We want to call on the Greek people - and on the other peoples, but now we are talking about our own people - to be on the table, to keep their eyes open, because the sound of war drums is getting stronger for all those who perceive and not those who ostracize and hide their heads in the sand, doing how they do not understand what comes to our region. And we will make an effort - and we try - to inform the Greek people of what NATO has decided and what it has signed - unharmedly signed - I would say - the Greek Government without bringing any objections. Firstly, moving prepared military forces to all countries bordering Russia. Russia speaks openly with the term 'Russian encirculation'. And, of course, it's not wrong, apart from the rest that we might disagree with. Secondly, completion of the installation and operation of the so-called missile shield based on Romania, Poland and maritime support and general infrastructure linked to the use of nuclear weapons. In fact, the communication of the conclusions clearly states: 'NATO's readiness to use nuclear weapons is stated. Let one think that if someone presses the nuclear weapon button, the answer is automatic. Isn't that right? It does not account for a nuclear holocaust in Europe. But, well, that's what you signed? Couldn't you even say no to nuclear? So that's how much? What are you going to tell the world? Didn't you have an objection on that or an asterisk Papandreou put on? She was kidding, of course, but she was putting an asterisk on anyway. Do you accept that, in other words, the use of nuclear weapons? There will be hell in Europe and everywhere. We don't know what's going on, what's going on and how many weapons are there capable of destroying ten planets and not just Earth? Thirdly, permanentisation, strengthening NATO's presence in the Black Sea, the Baltic, the North Atlantic, the Aegean and the Mediterranean with the pretext of refugee flows. Well, are idiots addressing you? Is there any naive anyone who is reduced thinking that believes that all the armadas, drawn from the North Atlantic to all the arc, have come to protect the refugees in North Africa? But don't they create the refugees? And are you going out and haunting on top of what you call NATO, the slaughterer, that is, the people, who send people to the refugee, destroy countries, protect refugees, and you are already proud of the Minister of National Defence? Fourthly, support for presence in Afghanistan, Iraq, the Balkans, Caucasus, North Africa. Are they going to North Africa to stop refugees or why are they preparing to hit Libya or why are they taking part in the war against Syria? Everyone realizes it. Fifthly, for those Europeans who stand out - and especially for you - for SYRIZA - who have called another European Union NATO. Isn't that what they were saying? Of course, the motto said 'EEC and NATO the same union' and it was true. So what did he decide now? Intensification of cooperation with the European Union and joint interview was given on this matter by Stoldeberg, the NATO Secretary-General and the Commission, which also at the summit called on NATO and the NATO summit to participate properly. These are the decisions, which it takes and we ask you and we ask the Greek people: what does that mean? What does the Stoldeberg declaration mean, which says we have the greatest military preparedness and the greatest military capacity and even the cold war? What is this if it is not preparing a generalised war because of the competition, the conflicts that are taking place in the region in particular, because of competition with Russia, because of geostrategic interests, control, markets, pipelines, energy sources, etc.Huh? We therefore consider that the government assumes enormous responsibilities in line with this aggressive NATO policy, which has never been different and that it has no right, in the end, to keep the people hypnotized not to raise these issues beyond the fact that it does not react like all other forces. On the contrary, the government is taking part in NATO, proud, and the old ones go to dismantle and all of this. What happened to NATO now? Because you came to the government to the left? We now have a 'Natural Left'. Do you, as you have changed Europe, change NATO? That's all you had to say to the Greek people. So we're going to ask a few questions here, so that the Minister can answer them later. In addition to NATO participation, military exercises, which take place, have been unbelievable in recent times, almost every week, were one after the other. So we ask - and you tell us - who the opponent is. Who are the opponents trained with the Americans, Israel, with other multinational forces in the country who have only one mission to defend the country's borders and national sovereignty? Tell us, take out our exercise scenarios. Give it to the public. Is it ETVA top secret? Tell us why the Greek pilots, the Greeks of the Navy, the special forces participate in such exercises? Who are we going to fight for? Turkey? He's a partner in NATO. Give it to us for the Greek people to know. Secondly, for what purpose do we have millions - when the people are hungry - of these exercises? Or do we have millions? What for? To pay with his blood what? Imperialism, the attacks, getting energy sources, hitting other peoples? So that's why the Greek people are taxed? Why, then, should we spend these billions? And move further and further. What interests does the agreement, all of you, of 40% of the number of Armed Forces fit into NATO rapid intervention forces? Have you accepted this or not the new military doctrine? You've accepted it. In other words, 40% of the Greeks will go to fight, if necessary, for oilmen, for the interests of monopolies and imperialists? In practice, that is what you accept today. That's the reality and you don't have to talk. Why is 2.25% of Greek GDP - second in the world after the Americans - going to military expenditure, which is not all, but is also NATO. They're too many NATOs, and if they're covered up. How much has been allocated from 2009 to 2016 for military expenditure? 39 billion has also been allocated for NATO commitments. I have said a few examples, I can say more. Why does Greece participate in twenty-three cases of NATO and the European Union military missions? What interests does it serve? The worker, the farmer, the self-employed, the youth or the aggressive plans of NATO and the European Union throughout the world? From this framework we cannot go away, when we discuss issues that deal with issues - some of which we agree - of the Armed Forces. Nor is it out of all this context that the Armed Forces operate and which the military will first pay in the event of war and then the rest of the Greek people will pay. In this context, therefore, we once again say that it is not possible for the government and the parties, which are in line with this policy, to keep the Greek people in darkness. We will inform him and say again that not one Greek will shed his blood on the tormenting plans and on Greece's involvement in wars against other peoples and we will fight it with all our forces. It will defend its borders, its territorial independence, everything, but we will not accept and no one must accept to be killed for imperialist plans. In summary - Liana Kanelli said it in detail and it is all known - an issue that we want to raise is military training. What aim will military training be? What, really, are they doing in NATO's schoolrooms to talk with another language? When they go to America, Brussels, here, there, elsewhere, what they are taught, beyond the purely technical technique, which has to do with weapons, computers, etc.Huh? What do they teach them? What are their heads sucking? 'The enemy people'! What do they teach them? Aren't they practicing popular events? Didn't it happen at Kilkis' Polycastle and published? So what do we say? We say that they must be disciplined in a polite, democratic, patriotic spirit, prepared to deal with the country's defensive problem, away from the reasonable mercenary. And if you want I can say, and I've spoken to soldiers, who go to Afghanistan for economic reasons, because they're paying more, because they can't survive here. But this conception is disastrous, as is the total perception of the mercenary army. No mercenary army won in history, never! He's going with the guy who's paying him more. Unless you have any other examples, but there is no one, don't look for it. They must also be disciplined in the spirit 'not against other peoples'. Finally, for the trade union - where Mr Kyriazidis is - he left - when the police were fighting for the union then, we were with them and were with the heads. Now what happened and you're against it? Why don't they have a right? We, the Communist Party of Greece, consider that the military have the right to establish associations, to put forward their demands, to claim their solution. And it is a step forward today, which is why we are voting on it. But we have serious and great objections that I have no time to support. However, we have this hypocrisy by others, who say "what will happen to the Armed Forces and the Armed Forces will be destroyed", as if the military have no political view and they do not know or as if they are irresponsible and they will turn them into a Zappian café. On the one hand you praise them and on the other hand consider them naive that they will destroy the entire army if they start to trade. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Karayannides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Two introductory remarks, since Mr Pafilis opened the debate. NATO is escalating the situation in the Baltic very dangerously. It defends countries with far-right and nazi governments, it believes that if it militates a zone around Russia it will solve the problem and all it will achieve is a war. We've lived it in the past, and I hope we never live it again. So here we need to take a position and hear a view of what we in NATO are doing. And I say this, with the responsibility of parliamentary representation in the NATO Parliamentary Delegation. We cannot easily accept walking on the Black Sea by naval ships, i.e., American and install a number of thousands of soldiers, along with missiles, around Russia. The second comment concerns the Union of Military Continents. Their communication touches the limits of criminal liability. When a text is moved by this union, which asks to know how many people are infected with tuberculosis and causes panic to the families of officers and soldiers who serve in these parties, either the military judge or the political judge must intervene at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u291	You're institutionalizing them, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u292	They're not institutionalized. If they take the leave, they'll be a union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u293	What if they take the permission? If you're going to institutionalize them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u294	So let's go now to the mains of the bill. Two issues were from the Opposition - there are major objections from the Civic Opposition, I mean - the syndication in the Army and, of course, MOMKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u295	And the main union is doing it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u296	So let's talk about the union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Davakis, you had the privilege of most of the time, let my colleague speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u298	Let me say it, and then you'll criticize what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u299	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u300	The New Democracy doesn't call these officers' associations and discuss them together? Is there an invitation to these military associations in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Policy? Which people have come and discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u301	The general invited them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u302	Yeah, but you're not leaving me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u303	Don't interrupt. And we can interrupt if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u304	You're doing it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u305	Stop moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u306	To conclude, Mr Colleague, because when you talk about what I say you interrupt me. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u307	You're inaccurate, that's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Davakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u309	The general called them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u310	Carry on, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u311	Take the floor and then say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u312	Institutionalized associations called, did not call the unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u313	The opposition parties were invited to attend and speak at the second meeting? They've been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u314	The New Democracy didn't invite them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u315	All right, everybody else called. So these associations exist. Do we want to close our eyes? The New Democracy wants to close its eyes, we don't want to close our eyes. Do people who work in the Armed Forces have the right to trade in defending their own interests without causing problems in political and military order? Does the law provide for that? We're saying he's anticipating it. Do you have any other answers to this story? Oh, no. You say "we do not accept union in the Armed Forces". All right, we're taking him and it's going to happen. What can we do? That's how this story goes, it's no different. Do you have any arguments? Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u316	A lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u317	Do you want to meet them in other offices, in dark rooms, and consult? So far this has been done and do not deny me. You want there to be influences on the officers and on their evolution? And don't tell me there weren't any influence on the officers and on their evolution. From the mere fantasies to the leaders of the bodies. So we want to light up a story that has so far been moving in the dark, meaning that people are not legalized to exist so that we all clearly know some things. I am simply taking two remarks to make, because after a debate we have done, I find a number of issues. There is the room for multiple representations - it says - in the club, in the Military Union, when a member of this Union, first grade, cannot be present there. And there's the right for an officer to represent up to two. I think it's a little drawn, because it's gonna play a weird game. Also, in the second, in which I have a dissent, objection to say it, it is that in terms of contributions from members of the primary clubs their level is determined by the Federation's board of directors. Well, each primary union may have the right to determine these things itself. It is not now a matter for the secondary union to determine the relevant assistance. Let the primary unions be given the right. So let's go to MOMKA. I imagine - and I will say it again, because it is not possible - that there will not be a professional engineer who will go up to Evros, Xanthi, Neuroscope of Drama or Paranesty in winter to open up a forest road or a normal road when the current has been cut off in these settlements or in these municipalities. So that's what the army does. We don't want him to do it? We say he has to do it in a way. Is there any other way these things can work? From what you know, engineers and contractors and companies will not be interested in these projects. So there is an effort, depending on and in cooperation with local government, when issues arise and electricity is cut in a village for a week not to say that we will do study, contest and award, because people will have died. That's very simple. We need to find a solution. Do you disagree on individual issues? Let's talk about it. You reject the MOMKA from the outset and it's not that we have some technical improvements that we could make. Let's do it. But you disagree with the overall context. So let's see how this can be improved if there are issues of improvement. I'm closing up, 'cause this bill story might have been a lot drawn up, 'cause there was talk of statements here. I read a statement to remind you of the fact that Mr Georgiadis is a member of the New Democracy. He has said that Samaras is the most useless Foreign Minister from paying Greek state. If you want me to give it to you video, it's the top 10 of Adoni Georgiadis' best statements, to give it to you. However, the last person to speak of statements of the past is Mr Georgiadis, because he is also unreserved!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after four meetings in the relevant Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, we are debating today this very important bill from the Ministry of Defence in just one meeting. Minister, we could not discuss this bill quickly, under pressure and in the shadow of electoral law. Gentlemen of the co-government, you showed special interest in bringing the electoral law in the summer, which only aims to cover your tiny-party purposes. You have brought a law that does not serve the country and does not help form a stable government. Unfortunately, we do not see you showing the same interest in the region and in solving the problems that we are facing. And what do I mean? Especially in Lefkada, eight months after the earthquake that hit our island, the works to restore access to the beaches of the world-famous Eremnon and Gialos have not even begun. Despite government promises that two of the most famous beaches of Lefkada, which are vital to the tourism and the economy of the island, would have begun by the end of June, are not accessible. In fact, residents have reached such a point of despair from the government’s indifference, who took the situation into their hands, made a fundraiser and raised money to open the roads through them for the beaches. You heard me well! The economic effects in southern Lefkada are so dramatic that people have arrived at the amenities and taken the shovels, paid chess machines and try to open the road alone, with any consequences that this may have for the safety of infrastructures and people who will use these roads. This is something that needs to be heard from the Stepping of the House, ladies and gentlemen, so that people know what is happening and what the government's attitude is to the real problems facing citizens, especially in the region. Now, as far as the subject of this bill is concerned, let me make specific points. Firstly, with regard to the establishment of the new Aviation School, we asked for the meeting of the Standing Committee, on the grounds of historical continuity, to maintain the emblem, the thyroid, and the name of the schools in every direction, that is to say, the schools: STYA, the School of Technical Staff of Aviation, the SYSTEM, the School of Officials and SIP, the Faculty of Air Forces. I am particularly pleased, as an ex-military officer, that you have followed and adopted our proposal, Minister. It is important to maintain the historical continuity of these schools. Secondly, you stress that your aim is to substantially upgrade the new school. That's what we agree. In our view, however, it does not mean an upgrade of the school, an improvement in the education provided, an extension of study time, without the need to upgrade the degree of graduation of students. I therefore insist, as I have insisted in previous meetings, that students are graduating or at least graduating for one year only to the degree of semblance and then becoming diligent. Thirdly, I am concerned about the arrangement that you enter for the military priests and judges in Article 18(8) of this draft law, which can reach the Brigadier if they are graduates of HS. Here you are creating inequality and unequal treatment between staff members. Minister, you know very well that the law is the same for everyone. But if you insist on military priests and judges reaching the Brigadier, we suggest that at least one, the first of the school, each of the series, can take the rank of Brigadier, and in future the school commander can also become. This would be a strong example of real upgrade and a strong positive message to all students. Fourthly, in the context of the upgrading of the new school, we should pay attention to its relationship with TEIs and the equivalence of its graduates with that of the graduates of TEIs. Equally important is that you examine with your fellow Minister for Education, the right of graduates to do postgraduate studies in Greece or abroad. Finally, with regard to the new real estate utilization service, let me insist on the objections I raised at the relevant committee meeting on the starting price for the annual consideration provided for in Article 11(4) and set at 5% of the objective value of the property. This price is extremely low if we even take into account the fact that within the property that the new service will receive are also "fillets" in privileged locations and coastal zones. Also, with regard to the procedures provided for in Article 11, what if there is a candidate? Is he taking the property to 5% of the objective? We therefore propose that this 5% should not be mandatory, Minister, but that the starting price should be determined on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the real estate, because another is a real estate in the mountains and another is a real estate - 'bileto' at sea. You are well aware, Minister, that often the objective value of a property differs significantly from its commercial value and goodwill, which can be an important incentive for a businessman to exploit his property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u320	So do we. I think the work for the Encampans has been auctioned. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor. In the meantime, however, I will propose that we reduce the time to five minutes for speakers and ten minutes for the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u321	You do this on occasion to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u322	Okay, now. You, Mr. Prussakis, are the ones who are to impose order, not to violate it. That's how we decided, and that's how we're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u323	Democrats!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u324	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a draft law, the main axes of which, according to the explanatory statement, are the regulation of issues of the security and armament of the Armed Forces, through the establishment of new services and the merger of others, and the improvement of a significant number of regulations concerning the career, hierarchy, development and service use of military personnel. It is argued that all the proposed arrangements serve the needs of the General Staff of the Armed Forces, that it contributes to increasing their efficiency and effectiveness, improving the working conditions of their staff, as well as establishing the conditions for cooperation with other public bodies. We are not questioning the intentions, but we can only ask ourselves: is the security and armament capacity of the Armed Forces guaranteed by the merger of services, especially by the merger of schools and the establishment of a new school or by the establishment of the Assurance Agency of the Armed Forces or by the reconstituting of the Unit of Studies and Construction? What is more, is this just enough to meet the needs of the Armed Forces General Staff and increase their efficiency and efficiency and, of course, to improve the working conditions of their staff? Obviously not. No intelligent man could support this, and of course not the ministers themselves. So the question arises: why does the government's very dear tactics continue to bring about fragmentary regulations rather than a single set of regulations, whatever their content, whatever the bills? Why in this particular weight - in many respects - is there a rush to make arrangements in serious terms - and perhaps some positive, as the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Lovers, said at the beginning of the debate? Do you not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the fragmentary nature of the arrangements endures the same goals you want to achieve in the end? We recognize, of course, - and we have said so - that many points have been taken into account and corrected in the bill, such as, for example, in the case of the fund, investment in the real estate of the funds will now be characterised as strategies, not only by the Minister but also by the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments, thus correcting the initial, extreme concentration of the provision, which is maintained on some other points. In general, several regulations in many are positive. However, it remains the fact that this is a mini-project, far from your own announcements, whose fragmentary nature of the arrangements is of concern. For example, since you intend to proceed with the overall review of the educational system in the Armed Forces, as you have said, why are you now bringing the question of the merger of the Schools of Officers and the establishment of a new school? In any case, this is not a prerequisite for an assessment or disbursement. So what's the rush? Another chapter, which leaves a number of questions, is the third chapter, concerning the establishment of a Settlement Service for the Real Estate of the Armed Forces. You told us that you moved on to this energy to avoid this fortune going to the great "quick" of the TIAD. We're wondering why? Does it refer to a memorandum or a technical memorandum or something? Is it foreseen anywhere that creditors could demand the property of the Armed Forces Funds, owned by shareholders and dividends? But let us accept, for the economy of the debate, that you wanted in this way to protect this property, to use it and to increase the revenue of the funds. Although we are in agreement at first, and we have said so, there are some questions raised in this regard as to the staffing of the new Agency, the needs of which will be met by members of the General Staff, by soldiers, by specialist advisers, associates and posted administrative staff serving in the Minister's office. Do you mean to say that posters who serve in his office have the know-how and experience of handling such cases? Or do they have the bond with the Armed Forces, with the service and interest in it? And to accept that they have all this. Is there any assurance that they will always be the same ministers and have the same people? You are also telling us that by CFD it may be entrusted to individuals, legal persons or natural persons, in accordance with public procurement legislation, to draw up specific projects to assist the achievement of the service's objectives. Could you give us some examples of this? As far as the head of the service is concerned, will he be your only choice? So we assume that in the event of damage, you will have the responsibility of your choice, or that in any case, precisely because of this, there will never be any responsibilities? Let's go to another matter. You are telling us that in the relevant approval decision of the Defence Council it can be determined that part of the revenue is available to strengthen the budget of the Ministry of Defence. This is a very serious matter for us to be ambiguity. What percentage is that going to be? What factors will it depend on? Revenue from exploitation should go to the funds, which have literally been busted along with them, together with the shareholders and dividends. Even so, what exactly needs of the Ministry would they cover? Shouldn't that be defined? What purposes is such unclearness served? What duration are we talking about? One more thing. In accordance with Article 16(2), property will be licensed by means of a specific spatial development framework, as applicable to private property, and not by the adoption of a specific spatial development plan for public property as applicable to private investment in public property. Is there any special reason for that? The report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament reads: ‘For the purpose of determining the territorial destination of public property as provided for in Article 10 of this Chapter, specific projects for the spatial development of public property, ECHR, shall be drawn up and approved.’ It then states: ‘In the light of the foregoing, the proposed use of the property in question under Article 16 shall be subject to the conditions set out above’. It has, that is, made this condition. So I ask why? You can give us a concrete answer. What the Scientific Service of the Parliament says is the question. I come to the fifth chapter, in particular Article 31, which, while it starts very well, continues a little strange. With regard to the latter paragraph, where the main conditions of the subsequent support contract have been incorporated in the contract for the supply of military equipment, why is the right to conclude a contract subsequently supported by a third economic operator? If the incentive is the most advantageous terms, it could be requested from the existing supplier, which has every reason to provide them, and if this does not happen, that the contracting authority proceeds to a third party. Unless the incentive is to serve "them", with the prospect of taking the basic contract as well. To sum up, therefore, although this bill is far from being announced by the Ministry and the Minister, and despite the fact that it continues to be lacking in overall planning for the Armed Forces and their staff, as in previous legislation, it does, however, include true, positive provisions, which could, of course, be improved further and on the basis of the questions we ask. That is why we have said that we will vote in principle. In the procedure on the articles, we will judge what we will vote on in each article separately, based on the position that we have taken. Finally, in the last minute that I have at my disposal, Mr President, I should like to refer to the issue that has arisen since the beginning of the debate, which is very serious and I agree with you. It is a matter of national importance, and that is how we have to deal with it. It is about the eight arrested Turks who are accused of certain charges. What we have told you, the special speaker of the Democratic Incorporation and the special speaker of the River has said to you, is that national and international law should actually be what will be exploited in this case, used clearly, and there is no need for any other position. For this reason, we have made it clear - and I have seen the narrative of your interview, Mrs Vica - that the second point you have said did not need. But don't stay there right now. The first part of the position is enough. The second one did not need, which concerns all other issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And today we are listening to a procedure and we are seeing a conflict with Mr Teddy and with his position and the high tone on this particular subject - which they do not need - and with the position of Mrs Aylonitos. What did SYRIZA MP tell us? That once they've been accused of these offences, they must be returned back. We also made the judge here today a number of Members. We must therefore be serious. National issues really need to be addressed with due seriousness and responsibility. I think that we will agree on this today, because we cannot on these issues raise issues that we will find in front of us. Of course the special speaker of the Democratic Association told you in detail and how this process is from now on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u326	All right, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u327	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u328	It is a question of a proportionate allocation of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u329	If the courts decide, we shall leave this procedure without further interference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, too. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u331	All your decisions have a direct bearing on me! I really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u332	What do you say now, Mr. Prussian? Don't start with the plays on Evros, MOMA's gonna do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The MOMKA Construction Studies Unit is a continuation of the effort to revive the well-known MOMA, whose glorious post-war construction cycle was permanently closed. This is a move of doubtful utility today, for three main reasons. Firstly, we do not know what means this Service will be working. The means, the human resources and the funds they will need will be borne, Mr Minister, by the Ministry's already reduced budget. Secondly, we are talking, in practical terms, about the privatization of an activity in the private sector. In the construction sector, small and medium-sized enterprises have been particularly affected. Is that what the agency will compete with? Thirdly - and perhaps most importantly - the role of the Armed Forces is distorted. He's strictly defined. At a time of peace, it concerns the exercise and training of executives and deputies serving in them. Only exemptions to support the state mechanism in emergency situations such as fires, earthquakes, etc. In 2008 three battalions were created in Loutraki, Thessaloniki and Ioannina to address issues related to civil protection. Is that what you intend to use? We still have an unpleasant picture of the use of resources and people of the Armed Forces to serve feeding and cleaning needs, issues that are the responsibility of the Ministry of Migration Policy. The Greek people want their army to defeat, their police to detect and the National Team to triumph. The roles are distinct and play a major role in social cohesion, especially in difficult times, such as today's. Moving on to the creation of the service to exploit the property of the three funds of the Armed Forces and their Equity Funds, I should firstly like to comment on the fact that it is inconsistent for a private person to take the lead. There are trained scientists within the Armed Forces - I think you will agree, Minister - who can take this role. Since the appropriate legislative improvements have been made, as discussed in the committee, which will make the agreement of the administrative boards of the funds a requirement, we are in agreement with the creation of this service, as our Head of State said. I shall then refer to two amendments. The first concerns union in the Armed Forces. We are clearly opposed to the sloppy and hasty approach to such an important issue. There is a timeless confusion between how the Security Councils operate, where there is trade unionism, and the Armed Forces. It is naïve to compare, unless it contains leprosy. The role, purpose, the way in which these two pillars of democracy operate is quite different. This is a very complex matter. This debate is complicated and it takes a long time, Minister. This serious issue is not solved by an amendment, which comes into the lives of the Armed Forces. It must come into a separate bill with long and comprehensive consultation. It is a matter of basic national, perhaps even constitutional. Basic pillars of a corps militaryly organized and well structured are hierarchy and antiquity. As you can see, the degradation of the Armed Forces will be given. On the contrary, it is very easy to resolve the issue of the amendment tabled by seven Members of the New Democracy and which you have rightly accepted. Civil servants, officers of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies, as long as they are seriously injured and seriously disabled, are entitled to privileges. Civil servants retire after a serious accident. The officers and officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies shall be placed in a state of military availability or permanent availability on the basis of life. The necessary presumption and useful tool to ensure the satisfaction, use of privileges is pension and, if they hold it, they can obtain it. With our amendment, which you have accepted - and you have been particularly honoured by the officers and officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies - they can, instead of a pension act, table the decision of the appropriate health committee and the payroll analytical sheet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u334	And we, Mr. Treasury, for keeping time. Mrs. Vagonakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u335	Fellow colleagues, colleagues, this bill is a good bill, because it gives a solution to a series of chronic problems, it settles issues that have matured, but it also raises some issues that relate to life not only of the members of the Armed Forces, but also of society in general. I shall not go into the service of women and men of the Armed Forces. I am also not going to address issues relating to upgrading and strengthening education in schools, although I have noted on that, because time is pressing and, as usual, the latter are paying it. I would just like to mention three points. Point one. It's about MOMKA in Chapter II. During the discussion in committee, the Technical Chamber of Greece and the Party of Anti-Population also stood negatively in this chapter, invoking unemployment in the engineering sector and their professional rights. I understand that I can even say that I share the sensitivity to labour rights in particular of young engineers. However, this is something different, first of all, because we are talking about MOMKA's activity in isolated and border regions, where engineers do not go and on the contrary have a great interest in national defence. I think - and I think - that Mr of the retired people very well during the hearing of the committees, who spoke with satisfaction about what MOMA was doing on the islands. Secondly, we are talking about the MOMKA contribution to extraordinary disasters and let us not go away. I ask the question: What would happen with the emergency situation of the migrant if the Ministry of Defence did not intervene in the creation of hotspots and in general in their organization? Because there was criticism here by the representative of the New Democracy on this issue, he probably had to address this criticism not to the present Government, but to his own Party, since the government in relation to the infrastructure in the refugee sector had received nothing and this is well known. The second point I would like to make is the question of the real estate of the Armed Forces. First of all, it is very important that the assets of the Armed Forces were excluded from the fund, so more sober and designed to see their exploitation. Secondly, as shown in the debate in the committee on the case of the exploitation of the assets of the Armed Forces, yes, this case has a past, but it seems that it is now entering implementation tracks and that is important. The third and more important, in my opinion, is Article 13, because it allows the Ottawa to be given abandoned camps to the citizens after a plan has been submitted to be sustainable. This is very important, because we all know that cities today are suffocating, many camps are in the heart of towns and this article enables them to create green spaces, sport and recreation for citizens, as well as in general to improve the development and quality of life in many areas. The third point is the development of trade unionism in the Armed Forces. "Individual" said Article 50 of the spokesman of the New Democracy. I must point out here that I consider the coup d'état to be a great democratic conquest of the Armed Forces. In the amendment tabled and accepted, there are safeguards which take into account the specificities of the Armed Forces. For example, there is a ban on strikes and attitudes, which is the opposite of what my colleague from New Democracy said and I would say that these insurance barriers shield this issue. The union has taken precedence over both police officers and porters. It is high time that the Armed Forces also proceeded. After all, this is not a Greek originality. In many countries of the European Union, something similar applies. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are being cut for the European Union, cannot deal with a la carte. Life goes on and on in the modern world. Let's keep our eyes open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis, for respecting time. Mrs. Triantafylum is not present, so Mr. Megalomustakas has the floor. Then Mr. Tasoulus and we close the list of speakers. Then Mr. Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u337	I'll be very brief. Today, in the draft law on the regulation of the matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence, I would like to talk about the issue of the camps in Serres. However, having listened to the ministers and the previous speakers, for reasons of economics in the debate and in order not to mourn the House - after all, it has another plenary then - I will focus on the coordinated effort of the Centroon Union, as well as before it came to plenary, we have tried to investigate and get informed. I'm not going to make an opposition. You have made it clear from the outset that the bill does not overturn the existing agreement. But you must also understand the stress and tension that has been created, as it is a big issue for the Serres. It may not have such a commercial value, but it has cultural and cultural value. And the usefulness for local society is high. Therefore, we must stand up and give a immediate solution in cooperation with the relevant bodies, which are the municipality. We are pleased that you have committed yourself to giving an immediate solution and we are committed to following developments closely up to the final agreement. I hope you keep your commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, too. Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u339	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill started with other standards and ended up or came down with other ones. I believe that this bill was converted into a vehicle that towed the military union. The syndication of the Army at this time for our country is injurious and destructive. We are not generally talking about the military union or about what is happening in Norway or what is happening in other countries of Europe. We are talking about the military union now, in July 2016 when our region is in a further deterioration of tension, with a Turkey which is becoming even more unpredictable and even more unstable. On 27 May 1960, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey became a coup d'état. The coup d'état then did not have the development it had today. Arrested all the leadership of the country, arrested the President of the Republic and taken to Yassie Adama Island. For ten months, the entire Turkish Government was tried. Immediately then most of the ministers were hanged. And it is impressive, Minister, because I am sure that you will be told - that at the time, Foreign Minister Fatin Zorlu refused his ombudsman to go through his anxiety by saying 'I hate you'. He went through his own stress, he said, "Have Turkey!" And he died. That's not how it happened this time. It's a lot more chaotic. That's very different. There were no such behaviors. Today with another coup, another Turkey is in a terrible crisis. Nine thousand soldiers and judges are in prison. Fifty thousand civil servants have been made available. At this time when Turkey is in this position, at this time, the ambassador of this Turkey, of the unstable, tells Greece that we have poorly accepted to land the helicopter in Alexandroupolis - did he mean that we had to break it down or meant that this is how we should break down their warplanes that violate the airspace - and it says that our bilateral relations will be damaged if we do not deliver them? And he says this with courage and challengingness not a member of the prostates of the last century, but the ambassador of Turkey yesterday to Greece. At the same time as we have the anniversary of Turkey's invasion of Cyprus, the same Turkey that, through the then Foreign Minister, Giunes, three days after the invasion, Minister, was committed to ceasefire. And as we know Attilas II followed with 40% of Cyprus. At the same time as we have this Turkey, two or three of whose persons I have presented to you over the years, we have decided on the military union, and we are proud of it, as if it were the military union that has been urging us at this time! The army is one of the few things that's standing right now. And he pays his hands that he's been held up. We don't blame him for the army. The New Democracy punished him the army, because it loaded him more than he was responsible for. You're wrong with him, too. We have a state sarcastic, and because the state is sarcastic, because that is how we chose it, we load things that do not correspond to it and we call them the'social offering of the army' to the army. The point is to correct the slug and let the Army face up to this Turkey. The Turkey of Zorlos, Giunes, Erdogan, is always the same in relation to Greece. It may not be the same in relation to itself or to its internal balances, but all of them, and Zorlu and Menders and Gyunnes and Erdogan, are a threat to Greece. We are now talking about the military union, and we think we have taken a historic step, because SYRIZA wants to draw up the left chapters in his political memoirs, which are found by increases, taxes, memoirs. You, Minister, are sure you know everything I'm saying. And deep down, you don't believe in the military union. You accept for your days that the military union should be institutionalized, while it should be even more undistracted and even more protected than all of us. We refuse that. We do not accept that. We do not agree with these theories. We're not generally talking about union somewhere. We are talking about the military union in a country that faces a threat from the East. And this threat is getting worse by Turkey's instability. Minister, I may be the last - or rather the last - speaker, but you can deny this amendment to the military union. I invite you to do it even now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u340	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. I will be extremely brief and will begin with thanks, first of all, to the government, to the ministers who are here, and then to the parties, because, after - I think - a legislative improvement that the Minister has brought, the amendment we tabled, as a Democratic Alliance, is accepted for the possibility of Elefsinos Shipyards, not to be excluded from the existing regulations. And here I agree, because I have heard Mr Vitsa - Mr Kammene, I have not heard you say that exactly our intention of tabling this amendment was not the company itself having a privileged status, which is also contrary to Union law anyway, of course, to domestic law, but above all to protect workers and the Navy, programmes and contracts. A few months ago, we all voted on a contract here. The contract ensures - rightly so - that the Navy pays part of the employees' wages to 70%. I think, however, that today's amendment solves a problem. There is a problem solved immediately. It takes a year, so that the work it has ordered and all the programs of the Navy can go ahead and for workers to be compensated in good time. However, what would be important - not only for the current Ministry, but also for the government as a whole and with the responsibility of the parties to bring forward proposals - is the viability of the shipyard through restructuring and not just. We have tabled proposals, and I would ask you very much, on your own initiative to have one - after all, you have committed it, we have once again called for an interministerial agreement, so that the issues of the pier which are the ownership of a bank or the understanding and the restructuring with the neighbouring Scaramaga Shipyards can go ahead, so that there is a sustainable perspective in the shipyards, in a country which I think has a comparative advantage in shipping. Finally, Mr President, because I am the last speaker, I would like to say that I am not refreshed. Today it is an anniversary of the dramatic invasion and I agree with my colleague that Turkey remains a threat. The coup d'état has been prevented, but we are all witnessing another coup d'état in silence and continuously, that of a totalitarian regime of the Ottoman type, which - listen - is also making cemeteries of coups. I mean, we're talking about the modern Ottoman modern version of Cretan. I don't know how Sophocles would feel if he could see us from somewhere. But we're not just talking about the dead, we're talking about the living. Pogroms have no precedent. Neighbor country I'd like to see a friend, but I understand Mr. Tasoula when he says it's a threat. Mr Erdogan, as I heard him yesterday in his speech - indeed the BBC, Mr President, had him alive, and I heard him say it at least twenty times - he was talking about 'human rights', 'democratic institutions' and'respect for democratic rights', at the same time as he was trespassing on them. No one doubts that it is a threat. Greece, because for eighty years it has built its entire foreign policy on respect for international law and human rights, now we all have to unite on this national line: justice to do its job in the matter of asylum seekers and we are at the moment to remain silent. I think this requires the national interest. We, from the first moment, have also contacted Mr Kammenos - has spoken on several occasions - and I think we all need to understand the criticality of the moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u342	And we, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Mr. Carras, you who are competing in lacquerry with Mr. Red, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, we are obliged to respect it for two reasons: on the first occasion, Mrs Vagonakis thought, which said that the last speakers are confined to time, and those who speak last have no advantage. I, too, as a representative of the smaller party in Parliament, have necessarily spoken last time, but I do not want to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u344	No, no, you could have spoken earlier, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u345	I have respected the order of colleagues, the parliamentary order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u347	And I say this: I usually talk to a small audience, but it's always chosen. So let us get to the issues that concern us. I have heard most of my fellow Members put on foreign policy today and the country's relationship with its neighbour, with its neighbour Turkey, which is currently in a disturbance, which may also give rise to side-effects for its vital area, which, unfortunately, also considers us to be its vital area. A thought will allow me to say. It is this relationship, in the present year, of justice and politics, of justice in relation to the criminal acts committed by the eight who entered Greece and may also pursue other policies, but above all the issue of asylum and the issue of extradition. So here we also have a conflict of rights now. We have a conflict of the individual rights of those people who may be beaten up, they may be ambitious coups - I do not know, I will not make any judgment on their qualification, I am unable to do - and they may, however, create a huge turmoil for the future. So in the thought, I do not want to go any further into these issues, because I believe that the government should be allowed to take them out of hand. In the House, of course, we must discuss them, but we must discuss them to the extent that the country's relations are not at stake. Because the Member may be imprisoned, but he also has a duty more: he must not jeopardise the country's international relations. So I ask - and I ask that we do not extend the next few days to this debate - that we strike a balance and a calm situation, and from there, Parliament will definitely debate in detail, exercise its sovereign right to do the analysis that it needs to do. I shall refer to the bill now. The bill has been exhausted by Mr. Saridis. My colleagues have also referred to this. We have said 'yes' in principle, we will see Articles one - one. However, I would like to make two or three points on the question of trade unionism, which is currently being introduced. You will allow me, Minister, to comment on this. You call it - and they have also been called for in the case of police union - the legislation with No.1264/1982, which relates above all to the trade in the private sector. It was a good law in 1982, it was a law of PASOK, it was progress compared with the previous ones. Let's not stand by him. I note, however, that it cannot be considered to be part of the traits of the army and of the military. Why? Because this law has an employment relationship, which is the strong side and a worker, which is the weak side, and then sought to complement these relationships, to maintain them smoothly. The military relationship with his leadership has nothing to do with an employer with a worker. The army has a hierarchy, but it has nothing to do with the political leadership. He shouldn't have. And the military have individual rights. Equality is inappropriate within Greece. We cannot see anyone that he is more equal than the other or that he has fewer rights to each other. We think the military have individual rights too. Equality is inappropriate within Greece and we cannot see anyone that it is more equal than the other or that it has less rights than one another. We therefore believe that a law which is autonomous, self-sufficient, which also recognises and maintains the specificities of the army and of the military, should come. And why am I saying that? There is a reference to the main articles, which, in the opinion of the author of the article on the union of the private sector, are supplemented by some provisions, but it does not have the unity that we should have, because we wanted to have an independent law. So we cannot support this provision. I would like to say another thing about the so-called 'legislative body' that is being formed. The Legal Body, of course, can be reasonable as a title, but it is not right, because we are talking about a military body united with the College of military legal advisers. I would like to make it clear that it is something different from the Armed Forces judiciary, so that there is no confusion, as with me. In my own mind, when I started approaching the law, I saw something distinguished. We therefore think that this House should not, according to Rule 28, be involved in the boards, not because the members of the Legal Affairs Committee are minor. They also have a degree in law and they obviously have experience, Ministers, in the exercise of administration and in the face of legal issues. However, because there is the military code that regulates and the issues of the Armed Forces Judicial Corps, as you know best from me, military judges have a specific status of independence. We are not able to identify them with the judges of political, criminal, administrative justice, but they have a degree of independence that has been a significant advance in Greek reality. So I think that, at least in the early days, military judges are also being replaced by members of the judiciary. It should not be in this year's time, because we should have created further conditions to have this membership. I shall express an even more general thought in relation to the participation of judges of civil justice in the Audit Committee - I shall immediately find the provision I have made - in the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of National Defence. I have the impression - I do not put it as an indisputable position - that this provision can deal with issues of unconstitutionality, because it allows for the participation of judges in committees which exercise disciplinary, audit or judicial powers, but has never been answered to participate in an active court of criminal justice in a committee in which there is an officer or officer in the Armed Forces, regardless of whether it is the Legal Service or the Internal Audit Unit. There is an issue, you know, from the differentiation of these two jurisdictions. I think you should see it. And I shall end, Mr President, by saying something else, so that I do not abuse the time and fatigue of this House. It is my own hardship now, since I have been here since 09:30, while respecting the parliamentary order and representing the smaller party, I did not ask for a preference. Indeed, there has been a satisfactory development, as Mrs Christophilopoulou said, on the Elefsina Shipyards. I was particularly concerned about the issue and when it came to voting on the convention. I have to say that I did not have a three-way contract between a private company, the workers' association and a public service, such as the Navy, and I had even expressed some, I remember some, no reservations, but thought that the malfunctioning of this contract was possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Which malfunction came up. And it came out the other day, because the General Secretariat of Public Revenue replied through Mr Alexiadis to a timely question I tabled on this subject last week and it could not be clarified how matters could be resolved except by legislation. So, at the same time as my colleague Mrs Christophilopoulou and the other colleagues of the Democratic Alliance, I also tabled an amendment to the draft law on the grounds that time is right and that it could be incorporated. I see, therefore, that the political leadership has decided on the composition of everyone's views in order to enable the Shipwrecks to function and to clear up relations and ultimately to surrender to the Navy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll allow me to say one last thing. I am afraid and I deplore the fact that there will also be a problem with the new regulation in the future. It stated earlier that ‘in so far as it is necessary for the performance of the contract’. This is a vague legal concept and can be interpreted multiplely. Thank you very much for your endurance to listen to me today, as I did yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, too. I would stress that it is not a matter of fatigue. As you know, there's always with electoral law. Mr. Red has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the draft law, I have to answer Mr Teddy. I have said another time from this, the Step forward that anyone can say what they want does not cost anything. Mr Denkias came and gave us lessons of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure and denounced the Deputy Minister for a number of statements - he of course gave the clarifications - and even wanted to create impressions, but created the worst impressions. What for? Because since someone doesn't know, it's good not to talk, because she's being exposed. Mr. Dendias isn't here. And to disagree - and it is possible - with Erdogan cannot be ignored the fact that he was elected by elections. Therefore, any attempt to prosecute, other than elections, is irrelevant. The request for extradition, in accordance with the law which Mr. Dendias deliberately omitted, is submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But he tried to create handful impressions how the Greek Government knows the request. I will stand on three points - Mr Katsikis analysed the articles of the law - which I consider to be the most important. Firstly, the establishment of MOMCA. Innovative regulation is needed by the Ministry of National Defence and also by the municipalities. It is intended to work with public sector bodies to prepare studies. In this way, the government's promise to exploit the capabilities of the Armed Forces and to be placed in the service of the Greek people is being fulfilled. Second, take advantage of the real estate of the Ministry of National Defence. The value is about 34 billion euros. Real estate that was ponding literally. Real estate that so many years didn't even think about making use of was there. And now comes the government and the Ministry of National Defence and sets a specific target, a specific timetable, a concrete recovery plan for the benefit of most of the Armed Forces personnel. And when no one has any arguments to challenge the sale of real estate, Mr Georgiadis comes and talks about 'assuming' - the first lesson you taught - when you cannot with any arguments counteract the exploitation of movable property - the articles provide for it, we are not talking about transferring ownership - to the benefit of the staff of the Ministry of National Defence. That's a lot of talk about the union. Let's get things straightened out here. First of all, I do not like the word 'unionism'. "The institutionalization of the unions", so that a real question may be left from me as well. Mr. Tasoulus isn't here. I will try with arguments to say why the unions should be established. But I really want to hear a sign of argument. Why is she catastrophic? Because the ministers are being hanged, as Mr Tsoulus said. Ladies and gentlemen, those who serve in the Armed Forces are not a special category of citizens who are outside the guarantees of constitutional rights. They do not expressly provide for exemptions from their scope, nor can it apply to members of the Armed Forces a presumption of differentiation in the enjoyment of all the individual rights provided for for by all Greeks regardless of sex, occupation, social, economic order, in the sense that they have only those rights. On the contrary, they are supposed to have all the rights that all Greek citizens have, in accordance with the restrictions laid down by the Constitution. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the Ice Arrow's decision says. Someone will tell me: I disagree with the decision of the ice Arrow. Good. Then I should like to hear why it is disastrous that military unions are being established. For what? Why is the credibility of the Armed Forces at risk by establishing these associations? To hear it, not me, but first - to hear it from the executives, to hear it from the Association of Military Regions of Thessaly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u350	Epirus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u351	...the Military Continent Association. Yes, Mr. Davaki! Tell them why it is disastrous to institutionalize the associations. Personally, I believe that regional units should also be strengthened in the near future, later. But why is it catastrophic? Mr. Tasoulus went to make an unfortunate parallel with some coups and at the same time unionism. For what? Aren't all active soldiers in potential members of the associations? Is there any chance anyone would say it's not? Oh, no. Is it so bad that they care about their rights, their wages, their travel, their limitations - and there are - because of their status? Tell them, not to me, to tell the officers of the Armed Forces, who will be not the representatives, the trade unionists you are saying, but the members, the Architecture, the Lieutenant, and not the President of the Union. Tell the member why you as a party say they destroy and dismantle the army. Honestly, it's a question and you need to explain it. I personally believe that both in the immediate future must be done and we must see it, Mr Minister, in all three weapons, because every weapon has different needs, it has different problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I said before that everyone can say what they want. But, like Mr. Dendias, you have no arguments to support a draft law, which is indeed innovative. All these years, no one did, did not think about taking advantage of this real estate, and instead they come to tell us about "cocks". Who? The first students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, too. Apart from competition in time management, Mr. Kolkalis. Mrs Kanellis has the floor for five minutes, followed by Mr Davakis who has asked to give a second answer, five minutes and the Minister is closing the debate. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President. Besides, I was committed. I want to refer to two - three amendments. There was no time for anything else. For example, you have brought the amendment to military hospitals and to work by subsidiary doctors. Theoretically and practically why would anyone tell you no? But I will explain to you why I will tell you what is happening here. Because a real, real problem is solved by half-measures. I tell you two figures and keep them, ladies and gentlemen. From 2012 to 2016, enrolled in the School of Military Medicine are falling by 43%. The same time in nursing personnel for the military is the influx of 40%. That's why we need the others outside. If there was a program to ensure good service to military hospitals by military doctors and nurses, we would not have that reduction. So you see that there is a problem coming and solved with one thing that perpetuates weakness. It's the same thing that's happening in the Fire Corps, which's happening here, which's happening there, which's happening further. Mr Kammene, a few months ago you said that the Greek Army would cover with military doctors - not enough for the needs of military hospitals - the needs of the islands and health centres. And now we're bringing civilians into the military hospitals. Put your hands up! It can't be! There's a problem here somewhere. I'm going to the amendment that came to us, which is a bill whole for the Ottas. I'm going to the two basic things. In point 2 of the amendment you are keeping all the scourge in school cleaners. The whole antique frame is in hostage, it's with compromises and conventions - crumbs. A mess of black! I'm not talking about it. In Article 3 for the inspection of projects and services where internal competences are transferred to decentralised agencies, we tell you that they are degraded by engineers. How can I tell you? Secondly, you are bringing an amendment to correct something that says that the service councils are not operating from February. From February, they haven't been working since last year! You have brought two amendments with two bills in the meantime and keep management in full, without listening to the regions. In the regions, everyone is protesting because you have an unequal status in favour of managers, in relation to officials in the service councils. In other words, you have changed policy seven times with seven amendments and now this amendment comes to the Ministry of National Defence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to close with the most important of all, Article 50, and trade unionism. A series of things have been heard here. Well, there are many things in Parliament. We have become - together with the TVs - all turcoologists, tourists, analysts, 'take Turkey', complicate Erdogan, and we are talking about the courts. Mercy! Colleagues, fellow Members, mercy! There can be no big issues that are relevant - those that are so much cut - for national interests to be served for self-interest. And whoever or whoever that is about, let's take it into consideration. You see us, we're very pitiful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u354	I agree with what you're saying, but put on a perfection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u355	I'm done. Thank you for the comment. We can't play with these things. How do we do it? We are not just the country of Ocalan, we are also the country of Velus, to remember some other things. Kalma! This is where other things are playing. And things are going beyond us in countries that are members of a coalition, which even speaks of nuclear use, as Mr Pafilis said a moment ago, in terms of Europe. Now we're going to trade unionism. You have a panic with syndication, which is hours-hours astonished to us. What are you afraid of, good, that the army will become red by union? What are you afraid of? I'm telling you, honestly. Do you see Stalin plundering against you? Because the same passion you have with Stalin as anti-standards or anti-communism, you have him with anti-unionism. You've turned your communism into anti-unionism. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what are you afraid of? Do you trust or do you have the military to defend the country? Are they capable of defending the country and cannot defend the trade union honor within the Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u356	Good, Mrs. Canelley. Let Mr. Davakis tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u357	No, wait a minute. Listen to me. The amendment you have brought is a problem. We're telling you she's suffering. We are in favour of trade unionism, which is why we shall vote on it. But he suffers from very substantial things. You could keep the 82 legislative framework with a few derogations. I will bring you a feature: the right, in the way you have brought it, is not guaranteed to the military, judicial and administrative authorities. Why? As there is no provision for the trade union protection of members of the associations. Since there is no trade union protection, tomorrow morning anyone can hit them without appearing, because they are trade unionists. So the right is limited. Paragraph 3 of Article 30 limits to such a limited extent the right to form associations and to participate in it, which may not exceed the limits specified by the specificities and tasks of the Armed Forces to particular extent the national, social and supra-party nature of the Armed Forces. And in ambiguity, you ban everything. Boom down! I'm going a little further to paragraph 5. They're characteristic, because it's a shame. It's an opportunity for union to be healthy, open, clear, clean within the Armed Forces. If it is flesh from our flesh and so democratically built the Armed Forces, then we have nothing to fear. Because fear goes to other times. If it's flesh out of our flesh, what are you afraid of? Every soldier of course has the right to be a member of the association he serves. You won't tell me if he comes in and writes in a new organization what happens? We come and tell you that it must be ensured that it cannot vote for institutions of the Pan-Hellenic Organization before the end of the term of office of the representatives that it had voted on in the previous organisation, so that there are no duplications. If you want, do it. What's he gonna do? Will he vote for the Panhellenic Organization, get transferred, go elsewhere, write it elsewhere and vote again before the term is over? And I'm closing. In no case do we agree with the vote by delegation - I have too many things to say to you, if you want me to submit them to you - and indeed, with the possibility of multiple authorisation to the same person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u358	There's two of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u359	Let's do two. It doesn't stop. The two become easy three and four and five. The vote for us, for the Communist Party, which we are not afraid of trade unionism, is an individual right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u360	We'll withdraw it, Mrs. Canelley, you're right. We will withdraw the mandate if the honourable Members, who have signed it, do not object.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u361	Please do so very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u362	If we all agree, we'll withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u363	On Mrs. Canelle's speech, Mr. Davaki, what do you have to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u364	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u365	You're done, Mrs. Canelley. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u366	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Mr President, I have a word to say. I mean patiently a word. I haven't interrupted anybody, I haven't taken half a minute from anyone. You have a provision - and I am telling you that for reasons of morality and aesthetics - which prohibits the expression of indebtedness and controversy which, in our view, needs to be removed. All citizens must be expressed with decency and no special reference is needed to the soldiers in this particular case. If we want to treat them as equals, with the specificities, which are also restrictive for themselves, of their rights, let us not make them recommendations. They're wearing the gallons. So don't get there to tell them that especially because you're military and you have the gallons and the uniform, look at you guys being good in relation to the citizens, who may not be. With these remarks we will put it in detail on the articles in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u367	Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor. You see Stalin surfing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u368	I have not heard what you said, Mr President. While I was coming, you said something. If we see what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u369	Stalin glowing, said Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u370	Look, you're not in a remote window, you're President of the Greek Parliament. A little decency and serious, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u371	Well, now, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u372	Any further debate, after Mrs Canelley's substantial intervention on trade unionism, emits us all in the debate on this matter, so it makes no sense. I now ask, at the end of the meeting, directly Mr Kammenos: Do you have the opinion of the General Staff? The Chiefs are in agreement with this case called the Armed Forces union? Is there a decision by the Staff or an opinion made by the Heads of State or Government on Article 50, Minister? And please, inmate of time or of no prisoner, tell me now. Do the Chiefs agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u373	It's a political issue, it's not a military matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u374	Mrs. Canelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u375	It's a political matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u376	Previously on "Mrs. Canelle"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u377	Mrs. Kanelli, the political tsubuka...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u378	Wait a minute, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u379	The issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u380	Mrs. Kanelle, we let you talk, let us talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u381	I owed it to you. You've interrupted me 50 times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u382	Let me talk. Please, that's enough. Enough! Let me talk. Please. Please. Be more decent and don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u383	Are you a decent man?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u384	When you don't want to, you're interrupting. You won't interrupt me in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u385	Wait a minute, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u386	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u387	Say it to your donkeys.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u388	Go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u389	I also know how to say 'Go ahead'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u390	Mrs. Canelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u391	My donkeys have better behavior. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u392	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u393	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u394	Despite the Mrs Flynn's shine bombs here, I would ask the Minister to answer me on this matter. Is the Chiefs in agreement, Mr. Kammenos, for what you're bringing? If you do not answer me, I believe that the leadership of the Armed Forces is negative to this piece of legislation, which you are bringing us. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u395	The Minister will answer after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u396	Will you ask me to answer you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u397	I take the position negatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u398	Please! Shame on you now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u399	Wait a minute, Mr. Cammene. Mr Davakis, because you are talking about decency, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u400	You have an ally for the president, you have an ally for Mrs. Canelle, all of them. You need it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u401	Change the seat! Talk to Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u402	I will not be like changing a party, Mr. Kammenos, like you and working with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u403	We must protect the speaker a little, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u404	What did you say, Mr. Metarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u405	To protect the speaker a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u406	Mr. President has manifested...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u407	The speaker must be self-protected, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u408	I have to protect myself! We will now have that need to protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u409	Go on, Mr. Davaki, I don't understand what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u410	Please! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u411	"Come on"? Is that decency? Is that decency?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u412	Sir Barry, will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u413	Please go on very much. I'll leave you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u414	You'll let me finish. Otherwise, the President of Parliament should come over to take over the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u415	Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u416	Let the President of Parliament come to the Chair. You can't close the procedure. I interrupt all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u417	Keep going! Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u418	And left and right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u419	Did I interrupt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u420	Yes! Yes! And from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u421	Don't be downtown.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u422	For the famous MOMKA, what is being said about MMKA clearly relates to an initial opening of the road, a route, anti-nuclear works, etc. Because if we go into special situations, I certainly think that - and the government accepts it - it will be a travesty. All of this, as Mr Vitsas said earlier about his village, requires operational purposes. I ask: the cost of fuels, oilseeds, all of which concern such a project, who will be charged with them? I said it at the beginning of my speech. In cases of another entity, there are certainly the same accounts. In the present case, when there is no other body - the bill of course - who will charge this cost? The transport cost, Minister, would machinery open up a road, who is to blame? How will these machines be carried? With the Navy? The ferry? Now tell us in your speech, in your reply. Who will take over the cost of maintaining machinery and vehicles, which will work for this project, given that the nature of the work, but also the old age of the machinery, requires a specific maintenance that does not exist? And I think you know all this very well, unless you haven't been informed. You know, moreover, that the daily allowance for off-site staff is EUR 29.35 for each person plus the cost of EUR 35 for accommodation. Aren't all of this going to be a burden on the staff's operating budgets? So what projects are we talking about? For which MOMKA which currently -347 Mechanical Order and others - are on their limit. What is the cost of transporting staff to the project site? It is also necessary to take account of changing staff here, because as you know, a staff who will be involved in the opening of roads, works, etc. It cannot be done all the time, it must go back to seeing his family and altering with other staff. Do we now have the luxury of institutionalising them in a special service, as you do? That's the point. And I think that what is happening more is causing fear and concern and - I would say - and the unresolved mood of all this situation that you want to heal in terms of some projects. He said Mr. Karayannides for plays in Evros, when the power goes off. These have been solved for years, Mr Karayannides. And the army is intervening "Kalikratis" and there is all of it. Now I understand you have to support, but don't break open doors. So, all these years, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u423	Four million paid Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u424	He can provide you, send you all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u425	Mr Karayannides, please too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u426	Unprecedented things in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u427	But he's reporting on my name! He asks me personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u428	Rhetoric is the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u429	The annual report of the Ministry of National Defence, especially on the pages concerning the contribution of the Armed Forces to social support projects, clearly says anything that anyone can see and then neither MOMKA existed nor anything. We are reacting to this with regard to the chain of the whole project. We are, above all, reacting to what I said in demagogy, populism and - I would say - every time we create impressions about things that will actually be a letter empty. I close my speech by saying that I am deeply sorry, because for the first time in more than twenty years I have been in this Chamber, I have been faced with the attitude of a Bureau of this kind, the attack by a colleague of this kind and Mr Bored, with intelligence and indirect support, not to protect the speaker. I am sorry and I hope it will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u430	I feel very sad too. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, I would like to speak. I am rapporteur, and I want to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I have not spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u433	Minister, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u434	I haven't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u435	I know, and I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u436	I've been informed that you need this year. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u437	As you are complaining, I will also protest because, Mr President, the Conference - that is, the Government - is a comedian of what is happening to us, in order to prevent all our parliamentary obligations. Right now I had to ask Mr. Miliakos on the committee of inquiry. I'm not here, either. I'm actually not there. Let's take some action next week, if that's how things go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u438	Didn't you precede before?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u439	Of course, in my protology. Now I have to do my dentistry. But because the Minister protested, I protest too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u440	No, I didn't protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u441	I have three issues. The first issue is of a general nature, it is not related to the draft law. There's an arrangement for the SPS. I would like to take the opportunity to tell you that this House, as its existence has been arranged over the years, has been having problems. And you'll have to see it at some point. I don't want to say anything else, because I have protests from various people in the military area who are wondering what will happen. It was for five years and they were maintained. We all made these decisions, but now the Army has received a matter. It's a hermaphrodite situation that needs to be incorporated. You'll see her with the right temper. But I did. The second, Minister, relates to your amendment on additional posts in universities for permanent officers. Look, if you think about the number of people entering universities, you will automatically end up - if you have not already done so, and I have not seen it - that this number must be your product of decision with the Minister of Education. Is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u442	Sure. It's a joint ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u443	That's right. Secondly, you should also see the matching of the graduates of the School of Staff. They are High Institutions, to be correctly aligned for both. The second amendment, which seems to be very correct, concerning those who are cutting, as far as flying is concerned, reminded me - I am not an expert, but they reminded me - that there was this arrangement to remain in the school. But there in 2000 he was abolished because he had hired a nepototy character. In other words, 'I can't do anything, but I'm still there', and that had become a clientele. Take a look at this. It seems right to regulate the fate of these people, but please consider what use has been made of this existing regulation in the past and why it has been abolished. That's all I wanted to say, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor and I just remind you that we have to end this at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as I can. I wanted to thank all my fellow Members for the excellent debate that took place in plenary, as was done in committee. As you can see, I didn't talk before. I wanted to hear all the rapporteurs, my fellow Members. Indeed, during the plenary debate, we took Parliament's views and corrected several of the points where colleagues were right to intervene. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Defence will continue to work, because we believe that defence issues should be dealt with in a different way. I would particularly like to thank the Opposition on the attitude it has taken, and we are particularly honoured by the fact that a number of colleagues and parties in opposition will vote in principle or some articles in the draft law. I think this is a good start. I assure you that on the part of the Ministry of National Defence we will do our best to reach the budget of the Ministry of Defence and to reach some times when the budget was being discussed in Parliament, it was the main confrontation of the parties of Convergence and Co-population, but in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence we were all voting together in the budget. From our side, we'll do our best. I want to give some clarification. First of all, I would say that many of the changes you mentioned - Mr Loverd said now about the PDOs, for long-term volunteers, for school graduates, for aviation engineers - we could not do it at this time. So is education. It is true that these issues, like the training of military schools, are issues that we open up, we will discuss them, we will find common components and we will very soon put forward a broader plan for the reorganisation of the Armed Forces. I would like to remind you that the sovereign legislative body in Greek democracy is the Greek Parliament. In this bill, we have taken into account the proposals made by the staff in their dealings, but the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence is not going to follow the instructions of the rapporteur for Civil Liberties to submit even political planning for approval. It's another one's work, another one's work. I'm perfectly respectful of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u446	You answered me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u447	I think there has also been a conclusion in today's debate on the question of recognition of military associations. It is true that it is a taboo theme. The terms of trade unionism and Armed Forces are something that we would not imagine many years ago, but the same taboo was the subject of trade unionism in the Greek Police and the Port Body. I remember the old colleague, Nikos Ghelestath, who, just as you said, said "the police are being destroyed today, everything will be blown up in the air" and so on. And yet later, the president of the first union became a Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u448	We're going well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u449	We're going well. Yes, sir. We shouldn't have done that either. This is precisely the difference of an attitude that we need to face, because if you want me to tell you directly, there was fragmentation in the Armed Forces, yes or no? Do you remember the retired branch headed by Nikos Gryllakis, General Gryllakis? Remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u450	You wrote a book together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u451	Together we had written a book and worked together. I'll tell you about a man with whom I've been politically confronted within the same party, Giannis Varvitsiotis. When they took the list to follow the crises that the party indicated, he kicked them out. Do you remember the lists released by PASOK once for colonel crises? Do you remember who they said "our captains or yours"? Well, this has to end. Recognizing a union deals exactly with these underground routes. In the morning, they referred to the announcement of the Epirus Military Association...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u452	This Union is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u453	Mrs. Canelle, please. Let me tell you why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u454	Damn it! It has other compounds and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u455	Mrs. Canelle,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u456	I referred to 15 minutes in, Mrs Canelli, the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative had an answer from them. "They contacted" - says - "with him and the hospital commander also contacted." So you understand what it means...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u457	Lie! I contacted the hospital commander. Lie! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u458	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u459	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u460	So you understood what institutional recognition of unions means and what it means to let some people operate on underground routes. I assure you as Minister of National Defence and as a government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks that as long as we are in the government and as long as we have responsibility for the Ministry of National Defence and Mr Vitsas and I, he will never go a card on the crises in the Armed Forces as he has not gone a card! Political leadership selects the Chief of HNDGS and Heads of Staff. From there on, the story of partyism and political choice must be finished. The Armed Forces must have their self-determination. And this self-government will be guaranteed in any way. As far as the recognition of a union is concerned, all the insurance systems have actually entered, because it was indeed a first step which breaks several taboo. I am sure that we will be serious about all of us, that we will be able to open a democratic dialogue, that discipline, respect for the senior officials of the Armed Forces and the Administration of the Armed Forces will not be affected by the recognition of the union. On the contrary, we will be able to discuss in public, listen to proposals from the institutions and close the doors that had been in place so far on the ground floors of the parties. This will be done and I can assure you that it is for the benefit of the Armed Forces. I would like to close by answering a number of questions raised with regard to MMOKA, the oilseeds that Mr Davakis says. Are the oilseeds not now paid for the engineering projects? Are the oilseeds not paid for the mechanics units, which undertake projects and complete them? And the olive oils are paid and the accommodation is paid. And ask to see where the mechanic went and did works. Yesterday we inaugurated Gregorios Monastery. We inaugurated at the Gregorios Monastery, Bella Bridge, not to serve the monks of the Gregorios Monastery, but mainly to ensure the issue of fires on Mount Athos, which is at risk of burning four times. At the same time, the monks are served and the Monasteries join together. Do you know how the monks embraced the officers and officers of the Armed Forces and hosted them? They did the same in Ikaria, in Cancer, in Drama. They will do the same tomorrow in Lefkada. The same will be done in other regions and in priorities that we have said, and we will look at remote islands, for small places where there are still people who are waiting for a state service, because the major contractors are not interested in such small projects and such great national importance. I would remind you, Mr Davaki, because you said so many times that the establishment of MOMA was in the New Democracy Programming Plan in 2009. He's in the New Democracy program! What's changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u461	Are you implementing the New Democracy programme? That's what you're going to tell us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u462	Now, of course, I see that the extreme right-wing components are starting to change the then New Democracy programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u463	Right-wing, did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u464	You know who I mean. MOMA, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that, in cooperation with the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy in this House, I agree to bring all the proposals that are in existence and to take account of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u465	Go to legislation with an amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u466	Please, Mrs. Canelley. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u467	Let me tell you why we haven't been through this in legislation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u468	No, don't give the form of dialogue, Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u469	We did not go through it in the legislation for this reason: there are cases of particular military needs, which we cannot publicly say. If I say that we will go to Lefkada tomorrow and we will have to do a work tomorrow in Nisserro, we will have to listen - and of course we will have to listen very respectfully - to the view of Parliament and the colleagues and local authorities. But let this be chosen by us at the end, because I think it is of particular importance. Now, when it comes to exploiting the property of the Armed Forces, I hear they're afraid they're afraid of getting politically controlled. The procedures are very simple. The procedures are so automatic that anyone who wants to intervene can't. The process is that there is at least one offer for 5%, where there is no local government, where there is no particular interest in local societies, which we give priorities and others, if we are talking about private individuals, that is, one comes in and says "I offer 5% a rental time" and immediately this area is completely clear from a legal point of view and with the consent, if you like, of the local society - and we take it into account - is coming online. I mean, I'm not going to Perdica right now, which is the Naval Navy's place to build apartments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u470	This is not a local society. It's a Navy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u471	Excuse me, Perdica is an area of the Navy. Local society is the ones who live across the street. I will not go to Perdika to say "I rent it to build apartments". We have all sat together, talked to the mayor and the MPs, and we say, "Are we going to make a park?" which will have incomes corresponding to 5%. Of course you will. I am not talking about such areas, but about usable real estate and areas where great investment can be made and there is private interest, it will go on the internet, it will become public beat, that is, it will beat the percentage and nothing else. There's nothing else to object. And from there on, this area will be rented. If the rent is not paid for a period of one or two instalments directly, it falls and the entire property remains at the Armed Forces Fund. As the issue of the vertical surface has been discussed, I would like to clarify and have legislative effect what I am about to say. When rental expires for whatever reason - whether it does not pay or end time - everything on the ground comes under the property of the Armed Forces. The facilities do not remain the property of the Armed Forces and only what does not actually use is the land or, if it is a building, the building. For the other changes proposed, I accept what you say about Article 50. I want to make legal improvements. In Article 50(6), in the last paragraph, it shall be deleted from ‘although this may not be possible’ until ‘in accordance with the above procedure’. It's erasing. Indeed, there is no reason to give a letter vote so that groupings do not take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u472	For subscriptions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u473	To tell you the truth, the subject of assistance is something that we have established following the proposals made and the discussions that have taken place. I have no objection to seeing it. Where there is a serious matter, it's about the property of the Equity Funds. It was said about the PSI topic. There's been a crime. No doubt. Commands against the PSI and the hairdressing that took place without their consent. This was a decision of the Bank of Greece. It was a decision that broke down the Equity Funds, as it dissolved the banks, as the universities dissolved, as other funds were dismantled. For education, a bill is coming. Here I want us to think and see from the outset the subject of education and even entry into schools. It is an issue that we need to open and discuss. And as far as - and I close with this - the various news I see on the Internet, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of National Defence has created, with officers, an information mechanism both in the media and in the online and media system, which when we have to provide an update we are responsible for the OHIM. Yesterday, for example, during some operations on the other hand in the region of Symi, incredible things were heard. We heard a F16 plunged two Turkish mosques. They wrote it out of foreign channels and it was reproduced. We saw - it says - that two inflatables were headed towards Symi. Not even a single inflatable has been checked. I would therefore ask you, because the hours are very difficult and dangerous and there is a tension in the area, especially from the neighbour, whoever you want, you will have immediate information from the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and from the Chiefs of Staff with the Chief of National Defence first. Contact us, see the announcements, and do not rely on announcements based on various posts, which many of them are made of the evil one. Finally, because there was a debate on the falsification of the statements made by the Deputy Minister - it was completely different from what they wrote - I will tell you that the Ministry of National Defence does not have any competence. Let the State Department do his job the way he should. And I think that the most important thing for the country, at the moment, is that we all have a common voice on these issues. And I say this on the occasion of the anniversary of the invasion and occupation of Cyprus, a period for which the only mention I will make is that the recognition due to the heroes of ELDYK, the people who fought and fell or returned and did not even recognize them, will restore that. We have started to restore it for both NICE and other businesses and for older times. And here we would like everyone's assistance, because in order for this invasion and occupation to remain in our memory we should also pay tribute to those who fought the credit, regardless of whether some at that time betrayed. They will be punished, they will be left on the sidelines of history, but it cannot be in the name of their punishment to leave those who fought, to leave life with a great complaint. The file, which contains information from all staff, will be given to Parliament and to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u474	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I request the floor for a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u476	Let's go to the vote now, let's not recycle the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, on personal grounds, I would like you not to interrupt me for a moment. I address you because I want a correction to be made to the Minutes. I asked Mr Kammenos this morning if he is aware of the crime he is currently committing in the Greek Parliament. He obviously didn't get it. We have just heard his answer now, and for reasons of well-being - at least here, the Golden Dawn - we have not laughed. I think, however, that the viewers who are listening to us have laughed at this answer. I'm actually coming in. He explained a moment ago, Mr. Kammenos justified and wanted to defend the Deputy Minister and said that the words, the statements of the Deputy Minister, were falsified when he falsified the Minutes. He was ahead when I told him. She left after, she fled after. And he said a moment ago that I contacted the Military Confederacy and it's ours and so on. It hurt the Minister that this Union of Military Epirus was invited to the committee and other associations, Mr President, and Macedonia and other regions of Greece, will be called. I don't understand, are you a dictator? Are you going to determine who we're going to talk to? And I'm telling you, I told you and this morning, don't get ahead of yourself. You're not a doctor. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Others preferred to make the doctor in Stepma this, Mr. Cammene, and I'm talking about your past, your political past,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u478	Please! Finish the one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u479	You should go home and see the bottles with Mussolini for gathering and knowing that this is the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u480	...before you were first elected MP...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u481	The posters of Mussolini and the nazis to collect!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u482	Don't worry! Please very much, I said I wanted to talk. What do you got here? Do you have a dictatorship?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u483	Mr. Pappa, one minute was enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u484	In a minute, Mr. President. Enforce the order at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u485	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u486	Mr Kammene, I told you this morning and I repeat it: you are nationally detrimental. The army is boiling. Don't just squeeze on your loopholes. Take care of your trains and leave the Armed Forces alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u487	We're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u488	It's an honor to call it a nazi!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of Articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Adjustment of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u494	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u498	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Consolidation of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u499	Mr President, I would like to say something about the voting procedure. As there are many amendments, both parliamentary and ministerial, I would suggest that we go on the basis of this list that we have been given for the vote on the amendments so that it does not go bad. If colleagues agree, let's go that way, because there are a lot of them, they're numbered. We must follow the list, because by voting on the articles one - one anyway, we will take time. It's easy for me to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u500	We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u503	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u509	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u512	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u517	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u518	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u526	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u527	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u536	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u538	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u545	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u547	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u550	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u554	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u556	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u559	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u563	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u567	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u568	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u572	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u581	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u586	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u590	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u599	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u608	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u617	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u619	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u622	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u626	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u628	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u629	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u631	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u635	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u641	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u644	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u646	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u647	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u653	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u655	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u656	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u659	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u661	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u662	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u664	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u671	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u680	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u687	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u689	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u691	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u693	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u696	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u697	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u698	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u702	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u704	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u706	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u707	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u716	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u722	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u724	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u725	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u729	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u730	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u731	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u732	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u733	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u734	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u738	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u739	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u740	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u741	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u742	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u743	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u744	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u747	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u749	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u752	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u753	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u756	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u757	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u758	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u759	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u760	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u761	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u765	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u768	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u769	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u770	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u771	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u774	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u777	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u778	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u779	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u780	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u783	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u786	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u787	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u788	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u789	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u792	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u795	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u796	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u797	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u801	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u803	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u804	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u805	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u806	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u807	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u810	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u811	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u812	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u813	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u814	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u815	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u816	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u819	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u821	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u822	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u823	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u824	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u825	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u826	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u828	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u829	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u830	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u831	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u832	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u833	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u834	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u836	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u837	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u838	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u839	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u840	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u841	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u842	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u843	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u846	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u847	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u848	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u849	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u850	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u851	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u852	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u854	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u855	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u857	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u858	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u860	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u861	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u863	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u864	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u866	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u867	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u869	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u870	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u872	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u873	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u875	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u876	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u877	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u878	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u879	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u882	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u883	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u884	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u885	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u886	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u887	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u888	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u892	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u893	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u895	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u896	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u900	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u902	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u903	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u904	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u905	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u906	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u908	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u909	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u911	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u912	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u913	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u914	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u915	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u918	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u920	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u921	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u922	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u923	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u924	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u927	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u929	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u930	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u931	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u932	Article 48 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u933	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u934	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u938	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u939	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u940	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u941	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u942	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u944	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u945	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u946	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u947	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u948	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u950	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 549 and a special figure 44 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u951	I'm sorry, why do you start over there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u952	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Is it integrated? Is it 51?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u953	It has been incorporated into the committee, Mr. Loverdos, and it has become Article 50. It's been incorporated into the committee. I am talking about her, about the status of the voluntary civil protection system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u954	Mr President, in the 'inn' distributed to us, I still have many articles. I have other articles here in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u955	These are the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u956	Embedded! Why don't you think we should vote, just like we did with 50, when it was incorporated?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u957	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u958	You can tell us the articles we have here in the 'inn' that we are looking at. Article 51 must be the new one. Why don't you read it as 51?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u959	Look, the rest of them have been put to the vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u960	Help us get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u961	No, we won't finish not knowing what we're voting for! Here in the 'inn', as we say, there is an article 51 on the regulation of HYPOSDA issues. In Article 52, without a title, it states: 'With a joint decision of the Ministers of National Defence and Education...'. Apparently it's what we were talking about before. The same for Articles 53, 54, 55 and etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u962	Mr President, share all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u963	He's shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u964	Mr. Loverdo, the difference is that so far they have entered the committee. Those who entered the House are here, here and below.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u965	President, since they have been incorporated and distributed to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u966	They've been incorporated, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u967	Do you see a difference in substance? There's no difference in substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u968	In order to facilitate - anyway - the amendments are included - I propose that the amendments should be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u969	But the amendments are here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u970	But, Mr. Loverdo, it's not a matter of substance. It's a point of order. We're moving on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u971	Let me explain. I propose that we go to the vote, vote on the amendments, and if some of the amendments, as they are voted on, are not the ones incorporated into the articles, then the other two articles will be voted on. Do you understand what I'm saying, Mr. Loverdo? The list that has been given to us is not about incorporation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u972	Mr Loverdes is right, there is a list of embedded amendments. We can vote on the amendments as they are incorporated into the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u973	Mr. Loverdo, if you look carefully next door, where you see Article 51, he writes an amendment to that number. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 549 and a special figure 44 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u974	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u975	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u977	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u980	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u981	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u982	Therefore, the amendment under general number 549 and a special 44 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 558 and a special number 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u983	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u984	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u985	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u986	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u987	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u989	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u990	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u991	So the amendment under general number 558 and a special 49 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 559 and a specialist of 50?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u992	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u995	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u996	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u997	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u998	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u999	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1000	So the amendment under general number 559 and a specialist of 50 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 565 and a specialist of 52 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1001	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1004	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1006	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1007	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1008	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1009	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 565 and a special 52 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 566 and a special number of 53?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1010	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1016	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1018	So the amendment under general number 566 and a special 53 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 568 and a specialist of 54?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1019	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1020	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1024	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1025	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1027	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 568 and a special 54 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 548 and a special 43, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1028	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1029	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1031	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1033	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1034	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1035	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1036	The amendment under general number 548 and a special 43 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 550 and a special number 45, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1037	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1038	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1040	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1041	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1042	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1043	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1044	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1045	The amendment under a general number of 550 and a special 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number of 555 and a specialist of 48 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1046	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1047	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1049	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1050	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1051	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1052	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1053	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1054	So the amendment under general number 555 and a special 48 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 564 and a special number 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1055	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1057	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1058	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1060	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1061	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1062	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1063	So the amendment under general number 564 and a special number 51 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 569 and a special number 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1064	Mr President, just a moment, please. We had consulted on this amendment with Mr Vitsa and said that only if you all agree, will it pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1065	Is it for the conclusion of contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1066	That's her. It's for the D.A. procedure Mr. Vitsats presented to you. If you don't agree, I'll withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1067	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1068	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1069	Mr President, the title as it stands is misleading. It's the S.A. deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1070	So there's a deal. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1071	Mr President, because it is an agreement on NSAs and the parties have been consulted, I should like to explain that the title 'Contract Procedures', as it has entered, is wrong. It is about an OSH convention, which has begun with the old procedure, and we are asking, in order to keep the NSAs producing, to be approved by Parliament - because only the House can do so - by the old procedure to secure the tender, so that we can start production. But because that was what the parties wanted, we asked for it and received it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1072	Is there a consensus of the parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1073	We have also said 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1074	We have not been asked about this amendment. No one has informed us of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1075	Mr. Vitsas, when he developed it, said he was asking for the consent of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1076	Look, Mr President, you weren't here. The Deputy Minister said so from the beginning of his speech, from Stepa. The matter has been raised. It didn't get behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1077	Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 569 and a special number 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1078	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1079	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1081	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1082	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1083	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1084	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1085	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1086	So the amendment under general number 569 and a special 55 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1087	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1088	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1089	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1090	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1091	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1092	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1093	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1094	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1095	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Consolidation of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions" was accepted in principle and under articles. We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1096	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1097	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1099	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1100	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1101	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1102	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1103	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1104	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Consolidation of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1106	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S1-commons.u1107	With the agreement of the House at 17.53' the meeting for today, Thursday 21 July 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, is to continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "Reasonable representation of political parties, investigation of the right to elect other provisions on the election of MPs".
