ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 23-11-2016, the minutes of its L'Practical Meetings of Wednesday 23 November 2016 (morning) concerning the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Completion of legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2014 on credit agreements for residential property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on credit agreements for residential property for residential property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) No 1307/2013 of 16 May 2013 on credit agreements for residential property for residential property and amending Regulation (EU) No 162/2013 of the European Parliament and of 16 May 2013 of the European Parliament's Committee on the European Parliament’. 1093/2010, and other provisions of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance.’]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Integration into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuels infrastructures, simplification of procedure, authorisation and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations, and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 November 2016 to discuss the draft law at two meetings. In today's sitting the bill will be discussed in principle. Let us begin by giving the floor to the majority rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Spartinos. Mr. Spartin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u3	Here, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u4	We disagree with the urgency process, since the issue of alternative fuels is a major strategic, national and economic importance. It should be discussed in the Greek Parliament in regular and long-term consultation with all stakeholders. We also think that a national plan should be developed in this area so that Greece can be self-sufficient in energy matters, see hydrocarbons deposits. Furthermore, we do not, above all, agree, because the incorporation of ready-to-date directives by the European Union is contrary to the free self-determination of nations and is destroying our country's national sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u5	Let me say, not only by addressing you, but throughout this House, that the parties, the parliamentary groups were placed at the Conference of Presidents on the urgency of this bill. That's the first. Secondly, this bill, while it is urgent, has been described as urgent, will be discussed in plenary at two meetings, such as a regular procedure. I have to put this before the House, so that you know, but also that the people who are listening to us are aware of it. The second is concerned with limiting meetings in the respective committee discussed in the bill, which was held in three meetings instead of four, as it is on a regular basis. I mention this to be recorded in the Minutes. Of course, your view has been recorded, as has all the groups, especially in the Conference of Presidents, in terms of the urgency, not only of this bill but also of the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u6	The committee also took a decision on the urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u7	Yeah, you're right. The committee, too, accepted by a majority the characterisation of the urgency and the debate of the draft law with the characterisation of the urgency. We have no objections to that. Mr. Spartinus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u8	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u9	What exactly, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u10	For an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u11	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u12	I shall put it before you if the representatives of the parties agree. If they don't agree I won't testify to her, she'll go to another bill. However, I think it will facilitate many of our fellow citizens who have been hit by natural disasters, namely floods, earthquakes and all other natural phenomena. When the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Economy and Finance approve their allowances, they are asked for tax and insurance information. It is clear that too many of these citizens, because of the situation, cannot produce it. If the representatives of the parties agree - I have it here, to be distributed to you - to put it before you. If you don't agree, we'll take her to a bill in a regular article. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u13	Good, Minister. It will be distributed to the parliamentary groups, to the rapporteurs, and they will be aware of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u14	I have also submitted the legislative improvements to the committee yesterday. I put it back to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u15	We will give the floor for the third time to Mr Spartan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, after the substantial debate that took place at the meetings of the committee, as well as at the hearing of the bodies, where there appeared to be a wide-ranging positive attitude to this draft law, the draft law which we are debating today can shape, we believe, a very different, improved landscape in the alternative fuel market, in the procedures for the licensing of service stations and in the forms of energy, as well as in matters relating to the regime for the transit of heavy goods vehicles from the regional network of the country. Also, the very important initiative on professional rights and access to the profession of diplomat engineers comes to substantially cover a legal but, I would say, moral void to the graduates of multi-technical schools who have been on the air for decades. The provisions of the first chapter of the draft law aim to develop alternative fuel infrastructures. They are incorporating Directive 2014/94 in order to minimise dependence on oil and conventional fuels in order to reduce environmental impacts in the transport sector. This incorporation into national legislation establishes minimum standards for the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructures, including the reloading points of electric vehicles, as well as the gas and hydrogen refuelling points. In particular, we are moving forward in a relevant national policy framework, based on an assessment of the current situation and future development of the market, measures to achieve national objectives and objectives, to create accessible points of refuelling and refuelling with compressed natural gas and to evaluate for installation of liquefied natural gas in ports and electricity refuelling points at airports. These arrangements provide for the possibility of consultation with other Member States, while taking into account the needs of local and regional authorities and the needs of all modes of transport, for which access to alternative fuels has so far been limited. The gradual replacement of conventional-fuel vehicles will help reduce the consumption of conventional liquid fuels, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution, and reduce noise pollution, thus upgrading the environment and the quality of life of citizens. Measures to supply electricity, hydrogen and natural gas to transport shall be specified and time schedules for the existence of a sufficient number of refuelling and refuelling points gradually for 2020, 2025, 2030, as appropriate. Electricity makes it particularly possible to increase the energy efficiency of vehicles and also contributes to reducing emissions, such as carbon dioxide, caused by transport. The State, under the draft law, has an obligation to inform users of existing alternative fuel infrastructure, in accordance with certification and labelling provisions with European or national standards. The information is not only limited to technical specifications, but is extended to the price and the relative prices of alternative fuels. There is also provision for alternative market support measures, legislative, regulatory and administrative measures, as well as economic incentives, and the need to integrate funds into the public budget in support of research and development in relation to alternative fuels. Such guidance actions have already been launched by business operators in cooperation and with research institutes. Through the actions provided for in both the development law on biofuels and the NRP specialisations, these actions will yield far more in a new, comprehensive, coherent, efficient and forward-looking framework for these new alternative fuels, which, as everyone admits, have a much positive impact on the market, the environment and the safety of citizens. The last part of the first chapter adapts the provisions of national legislation in order to achieve the full integration of the Directive into the new market environment for alternative fuels, while through CSR and presidential decrees, individual issues, such as terms and conditions for the licenses of the profession of craft fuels and vehicles and the extension of the work of the workshops, will be identified. It is expressly stated that concessions to the use of sites in port areas for the development of alternative fuel infrastructures and the implementation of the necessary projects continue to be in accordance with the applicable legislation on the authorisation of projects to port agencies. In the area of the economy following these regulations, it is expected to strengthen the sectors concerned, as well as to strengthen employment by introducing new professional skills in the field of repair and maintenance of alternative fuel vehicles. The second chapter goes on to a logic of simplifying the authorisations for setting up, operating and changing of beneficiaries for in- and off-site city planning or inhabited liquid-fuel, liquid-gas or mixed-house stations. The supporting documents necessary for the authorisation of such an installation shall be specified precisely. In addition, a strict deadline is set for the verification of supporting documents: thirty days plus fifteen more in the event of deficiencies. At the expense of the administration for unjustified delays and yesterday in the committee, the Minister accepted proposals from bodies for automatic licensing after 30 days, if there is no placement by the public administration, without, of course, abrogating the responsibilities of the public officials responsible for this delay. At the same time, reasons are laid down for withdrawing or suspending the licence if, for any reason, the conditions are not fulfilled, under which such authorisation has been granted. Simplification of procedures shall be achieved by replacing the autopsy to suit the land or land location and the decision to approve the approval of the traffic connection of non-hill-project stations by a declaration by a private engineer, which is borne by the relevant responsibility. Part of the overall update of the necessary documentation is also the care for the existence of archaeological sites within the defined radius of 100 metres from the stations. Furthermore, it is attempting to remove further from often unnecessary bureaucratic procedures by converting the validity of a LPG licence or a mixed LPG service from a 10-year period to an indefinite time, without meaning that the checks will not take place. It is also established at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the first time a digital record of the operating power and power stations, including all kinds of public or private fuel service stations for better control and market surveillance. Thus, the control initiative passes to the administration, which can easily monitor the certificates and the time when it will carry out its own audit. The safety of citizens, the protection of the public interest and the protection of the environment remains a priority. This is also confirmed in the third chapter of the draft law, which contains individual regulations for fuel and energy stations in general, given the state of the technology and equipment used. Redefined the specifications of the ventilation, pressure and underpression valves of the underground tanks. Pressure limits help to improve accuracy and the input-output system, with a positive effect on the elimination of smuggling. A mixed gas and liquid fuel distributor may be installed in mixed stations from the same service point and the obligation to leave five metres between LPG and petrol and oil pumps is abolished. The operator or natural person designated by the agency shall be designated as the operator, on the basis of specific conditions. This regulation is comprehensive and uniform, bringing an end to the multiplierism of the different regimes, the number being four, under which a station was operating legally to date. Liquid-fuel stations operating in underground buildings with floors shall also be allowed to continue operating if they make changes to meet specific safety requirements. In accordance with the provisions in force, these companies should be closed at the end of 2017. We're talking about a thousand or five hundred stations. It had to be taken care, because it is a large part of this industry and it cannot be ignored. Of course, the additional requirements that should be covered are strict in the interests of public security, the maintenance of jobs and the protection of the environment. Inland safety distances can also be reduced to two measures, since strict additional conditions are again met on the basis of international and national standards. Where the conditions for preventive and repressive measures are not complied with, the authorisation shall obviously be withdrawn, temporarily or definitively. Finally, the fourth and final chapter contains two very important articles. The first of these, Article 28, concerns the ban on heavy goods vehicles, more than three and a half tonnes on the road network which is used alongside motorways. In this way, the provisions of Law No4388/2016 are clarified, while the exceptions to the ban are laid down, so that it operates essentially for the reasons why road safety, the avoidance of the burden and deterioration of the residential environment and the intense stress and deterioration of the roadside. Especially on the road safety issue, it is worth noting that accidents in the years 2013-2015 amounted to about ten and a half thousand to twelve thousand a year. Of these, about seven hundred and fifty with eight hundred were deadly. However, we must note that only 9% of this took place on motorways. To a large extent these accidents are due to the simultaneous crossing of a large number of heavy and private vehicles by roads with specifications of decades ago. The fines are also defined by the anti-normal use of the network. It will be determined by a Presidential Decree, until the issue of which EUR 1000 will be with the simultaneous mobilisation of the vehicle. The fines will be directed to the CEE in the budget and are intended to cover the costs of improving the road network, the logistics infrastructure of the Road Terminal and the Hellenic Police. Analogue tolls are a proper measure to be implemented as soon as possible to alleviate transport operators, as well as toll discounts, as the Minister himself has promised in the committee that this process will be carried out in cooperation with carriers' associations, which are currently almost exclusively using the side network. It is very good that the regulations introduced have emerged after consultation with all stakeholders in order to reflect their own needs and requirements. Finally, in the last article, there is the introduction of rules on the professional rights of diplomats. Article 29 provides for a legislative initiative for a single procedure for determining access to occupation and professional rights and for the thirteen specialities of engineers who are currently graduated from Greek polytechnic schools. This procedure shall be governed by transparency and participation of all interested parties. For the first time, they will sit at the same table at the Chamber of Technical Chambers, universities - polytechnics, industry associations of engineers and co-operating ministries. The aim is to address the major problem of pluralism and to clarify the framework for the activities of the diplomat engineer in such a way as to serve the public interest and the security of the country's construction and infrastructure, together with the safeguarding of the profession itself. The regulations on the professional rights of engineers and the training of craftsmen included in a previous article of this draft law represent efforts to regulate the market rather than the other way round. In a liberal deregulation, it had led to the fact that at the same time we could say that little - very everyone is doing everything and some are doing nothing. Each man's studies should be able to give him the tools for his work, and this is a political, social and moral issue that leaves us indifferent and we want to resolve it. Finally, with regard to the amendment that the Minister has now brought, I think it is absolutely justified and we propose that it also be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Spartan. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, has the floor. Until Mr Karamanlis goes up to Stepma, I would remind the House that, at the end of Mr Karamanlis' speech, the time for the list of speakers has expired. Here you go, Mr. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with from the amendment we want to make a few comments, because we think it requires improvement. It is true that we have every good will to help all our fellow citizens affected by natural disasters, but it is good, Minister, to tell us what you mean when you say 'natural disasters'. Do we mean only earthquakes? Do we mean the floods?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u19	It's all, it's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u20	It is good to see and formulate this. Tell us what we mean when we say "stage subscription". We need one wording here. Same for the time of validity. You say it will apply from its publication in the Government Newspaper Sheet, but since when will she get? I think that's quite important. Also, when we talk about credit institutions or other third parties, when we say that debts to public and insurance funds are offset, we understand that and we agree, but when you say 'credit institutions or other third parties', I think this can create some problems. Who are we talking about? There may be two parts here which are two individuals who have a difference or economic transaction. I think that we need to look at this and we will be looking after it until tomorrow to answer you. With regard to the bill, the debate at European level on the need to use alternative fuels is not a new debate. It is a policy that we all know has been placed in the Europe 2020 strategy, as well as in a more specific form in the Commission's White Paper. Since 2011, reference has been made to the drafting of a roadmap for a single transport area in Europe, for a competitive and energy-efficient transport system. According to the European Commission, the problem lies both in the lack of alternative fuel infrastructures and in the lack of common technical specifications, and that is precisely what constitutes the most important obstacle in recent years to import alternative fuels, both on the market and in the acceptance of such alternative fuels by consumers. The directive incorporated in this draft law does come and gives a solution to this problem. In other words, it ensures the creation of alternative fuel infrastructures and the implementation of common technical specifications throughout the European Union. This will facilitate the work of market forces and encourage economic growth in Europe with this initiative. In this sense, the draft law harmonises our internal legal order with these requirements, namely European cheques. The first chapter builds up a national policy framework for the development of alternative fuels in the transport sector and the implementation of relevant infrastructures complying with European legislation. In addition, the text of the draft law provides for provisions for the supply of gas by means of transport in Article 4 for the supply of hydrogen in Article 5 and for the provision in Article 6 for gas supplies. At the same time, Articles 9 to 13 achieve the minimum standards for the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructures, including the recharge of electric vehicles and gas refuelling points both LNG and CNG and hydrogen. Finally, the technical requirements for reloading, supply points and the way in which consumers are informed are laid down are laid down. However, the bill does not simply remain in line with the European directive. It also takes a step further and goes on to try to simplify the licensing procedure for offices. These arrangements shall be recorded in the second chapter of Articles 14 to 21. They are necessary because they ultimately aim to reduce administrative burdens and administrative costs, to help the market and to create clear procedures for granting licences. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that we finally see the left-wing government embracing the OECD's environmental and marketing authorisation labels, which have been recorded in the OECD report at the end of the year 2014. In the third chapter and in particular in Articles 22 to 27, the draft law introduces a number of provisions which achieve stricter safety requirements for the operation of stations. Article 25 provides for the maintenance of existing buildings, as well as the authorisation of new stations for liquid fuels operating in ground floors. A prerequisite for such stations in ground floor buildings is the installation and operation of a STAGE II vapour system, a permanent hydrocarbon detection system, a study and design by a competent engineer, based on European standards, for anti-explosive protection and a new fire protection certificate, to be renewed every thirty six months. In the debate we had with the operators during yesterday's sitting, we listened with interest to the comments made by the Venizelos Federations and the Practical Liquid Fuels. We are aware of the objections made in relation to the high cost of meeting the safety standards, because in a difficult economic period, during a period of crisis for all professionals, this means a considerable burden, and indeed in a short period of time, that of one year. We understand that this is causing problems, even if it concerns safety issues. Therefore, the Government and the relevant Ministry could consider some alternative possibilities for the Agency to be integrated into European funding programmes. In the bill, however, two other provisions have been introduced: Article 28 prohibits the movement of vehicles more than three and a half tonnes on the so-called ‘side road network’. That is why there have been reactions from the relevant bodies, which mainly relate to the risk of increased transport costs. Following a proposal from the Officerial Representation, the Minister promised that next week he would meet with professional unions and concessionaires, but he would also propose the creation of discount schemes for these drivers so that we do not have an increase in transport costs. So we will monitor with interest the developments, which we hope will not only remain at the level of political commitments but also move into actions. And we are moving to Article 29, the provision which regulates the profession of engineer. I would remind you that the professional rights of engineers are determined, as we all know, by Law 4663/1930. Since then there have been many changes in the science of the engineering profession and several times several governments have tried to redefining the professional rights of the engineer. In addition, under Law 4254/2014, and in particular Subsection 1c, the previous government has tried to bring in necessary arrangements for the profession of civil engineer as well as architect and topographer. By changing the legislation in Article 29, the Government actually determines who is authorised to practice the profession of engineer. At the same time, what it does is set up a nine-member committee to draw up a draft proposal for a draft Presidential Decree, which will regulate the profession as a whole for all thirteen specialties. In accordance with paragraph 6, that committee should submit its report to the next six months. Yesterday in committee, the Minister said he would reduce this time to five months. We were expecting to see - and we have seen today - the relative deposition of the legislative improvement. So given the fact that this committee is being set up, it would be appropriate for the government to clarify what direction this committee will take. For our part, we call for modern, social and scientific criteria. We all know that the engineering sector today has suffered a huge blow with hundreds of engineers deleted from the TEI and migrating abroad. We note, therefore, that the TEI is a crucial factor in mapping and the need for the profession of engineer and the professional rights of engineer skills. Finally, as far as this article is concerned, I think we should also refer to something more. At yesterday's committee meeting, I think a constructive debate was launched on the equalisation of the professional rights of the university engineers with either the engineers in the technology sector or the engineers they have studied, as the Minister said, at university institutions abroad. It is good for the government to tell us its thoughts on this matter, regardless of where the committee is going to move. We consider it right and reasonable to know the position of the government not in a general manner, but in particular in terms of the equalisation of professional rights, and we are also prepared to make our proposals. Mr President, this bill is moving in the right direction because it simply establishes self-evident. It harmonizes the internal legal order with a European directive. It lays down provisions which are part of OECD recommendations, a body found at the SYRIZA target when they were opposition and whose recommendations have been fought, and now it seems that you are running in a sense that you are ensuring that these proposals are implemented. This draft law also introduces safety standards that apply to the majority of European Union countries. At the same time, the truth is that some provisions have brought together several reactions. The Minister in the debate in committee has shown that he is aware of these objections and has committed himself to making improvements. What remains is to see whether the government will once again, as we are accustomed to, say, or act and implement its commitments. In any case, what is happening to all of us is that the government is moving lately. We see this from this bill as well, because it is a directive which, on 15 November, was the end date that the government presented the bill to the committee, but we also see it in another topical issue of the days on which the Minister is responsible, and this is about the posting of workers on a fixed track. The government, for example, had to complete the OSCE reorganisation plan for two years ago. A project launched by the previous government and the agency's previous administration. Instead, unfortunately, we have seen the government for two years opt for inappropriateness and led to a sad situation. The Greek people, however, do not have the luxury of losing any more time. So no more lost time. We've already lost two years of your return. Mr President, the New Democracy will vote in principle on the bill and will table its position on the articles in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Karamanlis. And we continue, giving the floor to Mr. Shahinides, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The People's Association - Golden Dawn states that it will vote against this draft law at first and we will justify it. We are expressing our complete opposition to directives which are harmonisations in European legislation. This is because the policies pursued by the European Union in its Member States do not serve the interests of the national states, but the interests of the international banking system and the known - unknown. Furthermore, one more reason why we will vote against in principle is that Articles 14 to 28 are monumental obligations and we have repeatedly stated within Parliament that what comes and is a Memorandumary Obligation Golden Dawn will vote against it. Reference is made to this draft law on a national policy framework. So, what is it? A sufficient number of LNG refuelling points shall also be reported. The already saturated port of Piraeus will have a station, Minister? Will there be a special study for the port of Piraeus? And what is, really, the view of 'COSCO' on this? I put to the Minutes a question number 247 and date 25-2-2015, which was made by the Golden Dawn, namely, the competitor Kouzilos Nikolaos, where the reply of the then Minister of State, Dritsa, has been attached. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another question arises as to whether the single gas tax will be reduced. Only then will we be able to achieve growth. We cannot hope for too much at the level of taxation. I would also like to make a practical point about this in the Minutes of the Golden Dawn, number 1135 and date 26-3-2015, which, however - I inform you, ladies and gentlemen - was not answered by the then Minister and is not the only one. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The troika also pushes Greece for the sale of DESCA. So, here as a country, we lose the geopolitical advantage to make the Rethyssus node a distribution. I am therefore tabling a relevant question in the Minutes, which we have tabled with number 4321 and date 29-3-2016. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From what you understand, with what you bring for a vote in this draft law, as a People's Movement - Golden Dawn we have dealt much before you. In practice, therefore, this draft law launches the achievement of the objectives of the European Union's ‘Europe 2020’ development strategy, which is related to climate change and energy. In addition, we can say that it is consistent and complementing the ratification of the Paris Agreement on climate change, which was concluded some time ago. According to the principles of the directive and Article 1 of this directive, the legislators appear to seek to avoid fragmentation of the internal market because of the uncoordinated introduction of alternative fuels into the market. Such an intention could be termed positive, but we cannot overlook the fact that we are obliged as a country to establish a national policy in line with Union law. Union law once again outweighs, unfortunately, national law. We should also point out that the arrangements are the fulfillment of the Memorandum of Understanding, in accordance with Article 3 of Law No4336/2015, on the Economic Aid Convention by the European Stability Mechanism for the Implementation of the Finance Agreement, namely the Third Memorandum. Apart from being a Memorandum of Understanding, however, you are literally bringing this draft law, like all the rest, at the last moment, at the time when the deadline for implementing the directive is expired by the Member States and especially when the second assessment does not seem to have any positive effect. With regard to the significant enhancement of the activity of the fuel industry, which is expected to take place with the implementation of this, as we have said in committees, more than three thousand stations have been shut down, while domestic fuel sales have fallen sharply. Such a situation is difficult to reverse and special planning is needed to deal with. Of course, however, the excessive increase in taxation, the specific taxes imposed and capital controls contribute in the opposite direction. In time, therefore, it seems clear that the rulers are also prepared to legislate according to Europeans' demands, but also to be submissive through the continuous and repeated control of an alleged national policy. It is clear that we have surrendered unconditionally to foreign decision-makers. It is vitally important that a state develops its own national policy on issues relating to it and for no reason should adopt foreign orders and refer foreigners to its progress as a bad student who has put punishment. There is a reference to the present draft law on electricity supply, which, as we have said again in committees, is growing rapidly. In Greece, however, the figures are not so encouraging. The first electric car chargers were installed in 2011, while in 2013 the electric car was sold. However, it is still not well known which of the charging stations are publicly accessible or are private, nor are their technical characteristics, installed power, charging time and much more. It is therefore important to have an organisation, a mapping, if you like, of these elements, as well as cooperation at regional and local level to implement electricity supply in the transport sector. In this direction, the areas of research, technology and innovation will make a crucial contribution, and we want to believe that there will be environmental, energy and development benefits. However, particularly important to us will be the contribution of the entrepreneurship of the Greek car industry, an issue which the Members of the Golden Dawn have repeatedly raised. Unfortunately, however, the European Union only places obstacles to any business attempt that could lead to the economic development and independence of our country. We must also note that we consider the state's obligation to inform users about prices, the geographical location of publicly accessible supply and rechargeable fuels. Alternative fuels on wheeled vehicles are given here. Greece already produces biofuels, but which could not be made available on wheeled vehicles and were limited, with similar limitations on production and loss of jobs, both in the biofuel industry and in the cooperating industries, such as the cultivation of energy plants, collection, etc. Article 11 also stipulates that it will be defined in ports and car parking marinas, liquid fuel, liquefied gas, the known LNG, as well as inland electricity supply and by floating means. Chapter B contains the simplification of the authorisation, establishment and operation of a liquid fuel and liquefied gas or mixed station and the process of changing the licensee of these stations. In accordance with Articles 14 to 20, the following are therefore included: A maximum period of 30 working days shall be set for the granting of an authorisation for the establishment, subject to the submission of a complete file of supporting documents. Immediate authorisation shall be established, according to which, if the 30-day period has elapsed without the licence authority and service to approve or reject the request, the person concerned shall be deemed lawfully to have established the agency’s business without any additional restriction. Also, the automation of an appropriate floor position carried out by the transport and communications services concerned shall be abolished and replaced by the submission of a responsible statement by the private engineer under authorisation of a service. The abolition of autopsy is not an administrative burden. In this way, objectivity was guaranteed and arbitraryness was restricted, as far as possible. But can it be replaced by a mechanic attestation? Given the dreadful situation in which engineers have arrived, it will not be difficult to find some who will give false assurances. There are, of course, criminal and disciplinary measures for offenders, but the audit procedure for the certification of our infringement is that it is not sufficient. Even after the legislative improvements, silent approval remains in force and the check is expected to be carried out by the Vehicle Installations and Services Department of the Vehicle Control and Installations Directorate of the Directorate-General for Road Safety of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, second of all. However, and so there is no administrative relief, in addition to the elimination of illegal authorisations. We have so far been dealing with this apathy of the excessively bureaucratic system, but from now on we are passing to the other end, where we will receive massive approvals and authorisations, essentially without control. With regard to Article 16, in which the applicant for authorisation to operate a liquid fuel service should not have been sentenced in the last eight years for fraudulent or smuggling fuels, it should be mentioned at this point that the developing market for liquefied petroleum gas has, unfortunately, been at the mercy of smugglers, with government gains being estimated at around EUR 13 million per year. Smuggling and trafficking in counterfeit fuels in the market and in the state mechanism are the most powerful interactive circuits, with long-term action and incalculable effects on the economy, national safety, the environment and public health. Therefore, this measure, together with measures, should act towards tightening up the legislative framework, so that all these circuits can be struck once and for all. We have some reservations about Article 21 and regarding the digital office register, with regard to the information that will also include their security. Interconnection with the respective registers available in the other services involved is envisaged, but the issue of coherence and interoperability between the systems is raised. In addition, another issue that needs special labelling is the authorisation of new stations in ground buildings and in particular the continued operation of existing liquid fuel stations beyond 10 December 2017. In this category, in the latter category, they belong to the stations "bombs", as they have been designated, which naturally pose serious risks in the event of fire. Seven years had been allocated to enable them to move away from their existing positions. Now the operation is expanding indefinitely, without taking into account the fact that there were fires and other accidents endangering the lives of the tenants. In fact, according to the information we have received, the redefinition of the pressure on the steam tanks will result in, among other things, the continued risk of explosion and fire disasters at the expense of the already three hundred thousands of citizens - users of the over one thousand six hundred stations, which are proposed to continue their operation indefinitely. In addition, many thousands of new users of overhead floors will be added to the existing risk, and even to an unlimited number of new stations, as proposed. The examples of England and Wallonia, as mentioned in this draft law, are not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to convince us of the possible positive outcome of the application of this provision, due to the risks involved, combined with the predicted reduction of internal distances to the small stations of petrol and LPG. And here I told you within the committee that whenever you want and whenever it suits you, invoke the laws of England. And a few days ago, I set you in a similar committee what is true of gender segregation in the United Kingdom. But, as I mentioned that day, no one founded their own hand in this Chamber. So whenever it suits you, you harmonize and bring examples of what applies to other countries. In Article 27 we cannot consent to the risk of human life. It is an issue that also needs to be considered, because in practice it is shown that the installation of detectors is not enough to avoid an accident, such as the distances that have been set for these reasons. There was a two-foot report. But here, Mr Minister, one question arises: who will take responsibility if there is an accident, while the planned measures have been taken, but it might not have happened if these security distances had not been reduced? Article 18 provides for the immobilisation and the imposition of a fine of EUR 1 000 for drivers of motor vehicles weighing more than three and a half tonnes, which infringe the ban on crossing the road network alongside highways and highways. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Revenue from the designated administrative fines will be reimbursed, inter alia, to improve the road network. However, the use of side roads will not only be prevented from imposing sanctions, since even so drivers avoid excessive charges at the toll station, which they meet along the entire main road network of the country. Here we suggested that there would not even be any reason to have this article, if you had done what the current Minister for National Defence had promised, namely the reopening of the known MOMA, which could also restore, but also to build the roads considered useful, so as to avoid the Greek citizen paying huge sums to cross Greece from the edge to the end. Finally, I conclude by saying that we consider Article 29 to be unacceptable, which concerns the regulations of the profession of engineers, as it is incomprehensible for the professions of diplomats - who are listed in a hundred and twenty-five thousand as a whole - to put themselves in a provision of an unrelated bill, as the President of the TEC, Mr Stasinos, pointed out yesterday at the hearing of the bodies. It should be noted that there is absolutely no provision for the professional rights of technical education engineers. Therefore, this provision does not mean opening up the profession but closing up, as thousands of TEI graduates in the country are unable to practice their profession because of the absence of the institutional framework for decades, without the relevant ministries taking the necessary measures. So take the necessary steps to table a bill that will regulate occasional loopholes in the law regarding the professional rights of engineers. Create an up-to-date regulatory framework that solves and does not create any further problems. As far as the provisions relating to the supply of waterways and other alternative fuels are concerned, we shall be talking tomorrow. As far as the amendment that has been tabled, we declare reservation and will be placed in the debate on the articles and the vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u23	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, today has its own meaning, it is once again a day of the government's deadlock: deadlock in negotiation with the Troika, closed as the second assessment has been closed, the Troika representatives have left the final verdict, and we expect to see what will happen next month, but in any case we are absolutely not talking about positive developments for the Greek people. We have the second deadlock that is already in peak, it is the deadlock of immigration and refugee with the islands of the eastern Aegean to be on the edge of the explosion. Chios, Samos, Mytilini are islands that are narrower under the absence of the government, lack of government initiatives, in order to regulate an issue that could have already been regulated in a serious European country in a much more human and much more effective way for both refugees and local communities. And we also have the deadlock that has emerged since yesterday in the Cyprus issue, where the provocative attitude of neighbour Erdogan is added. In all this, the government is trying to solve its own political and social deadlocks, and thankfully, at least in this case, this bill, we do not see celebrations from the government because they could even bring in a directive to celebrate. At least, we see low tones, calm and this incorporation passes, so we can see what we will do the next day. But there is also an opportunity that is lost. You know, anyone who has watched the incorporation of these kinds of directives in other countries sees the opportunity and the opportunity for national parliaments to have a broader debate, a debate on environmental protection strategy, alternative forms of energy, how to deal with climate change and, at the same time, how to involve national productive forces in the debate. We are coming here again with the well-known miserable, retarded, fragmented, anti-developmental way to simply incorporate a directive, all the articles that had been provided, which were positive, because they provide for the use of alternative fuels, but without any further move, so that we can see how something more positive can be shaped. We are therefore coming to discuss a matter outside, far from the necessary national strategy and the combination of energy, the environment and new productive model of the country, what should be the vision and perspective of a country like our country, the vision of a circular economy, a human resource-based economy, is based on the comparatively advantageous and certainly also based on measures for use, a repetition of mineral raw materials. And this opportunity lost. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to point out the missed opportunity, which has to do with the lack of measures, forecasts and plans, with regard to the added value and leverage of funds, which could exist in a more comprehensive way to deal with this particular issue. I am thinking more specifically of the Greek companies, the Greek universities and the Greek minds, which could in this transition of vehicles fleets from fleets, which use traditional fuel oil and petrol to alternative fuel fleets, could be a very important and serious involvement of the Greek know-how, the Greek business, the Greek universities, the Greek researchers, so that we are not importers of ready-to-car products, but have participated, in one way or another, in co-production, even part of these new vehicles. I say this because many other countries have achieved and exploited these possibilities, and this is how they are involved in the revolutionary process, in the way of urban and long-distance transport, but also in the way of urban and long-term transport of goods through trucks for private or public use. However, when we look at the details of the bill, of integration, we find something else that the delayed two years in incorporating the directive from the Greek Government once again has brought society and the market much more ahead of the government initiatives. I want to remind you that in 2013 and 2014 there were years of stations to be introduced and alternative fuels extended. I am thinking above all of the use of the CNG and the use of electric vehicles on the Greek road network. The CNG with the use and initiative of the activities of DEPA had already gone ahead, had opened its wings, had launched procedures for the creation of compressed natural gas stations. Today, our country has a network of ten stations, mainly along the national road network. Within the next year we expect the PPC, in cooperation with ELTA, to create some twenty more stations, which now means that the use of compressed natural gas in IX mainly cars is a process that runs extremely environmentally friendly and with added value for Greek businesses. The same thing happened with the electric power. In 2013 the first attempts were made by PPC. And we started, PPC joined innovative programs for the use of electricity in private vehicles. And the first power-driven stations in the Ministry of the Environment, PPC's offices and other places in Kozani and other places in order to see the national economy how this story can actually run. In 2014, we established the first process, under the regulatory plan of Athens and Attica, how to create, create, operate and maintain recharge stations across the Lefkanopedi and outside the Lefkanopedi. We are therefore in the face of a development that has taken its way on its own, without expecting any kind of intervention. However, some other steps had been taken that were important to mention. In 2003, one year before the Olympic Games, Attica, Athens was Europe's first capital city with the largest fleet of urban buses using compressed natural gas, and that was then - it was considered, but also - a great pro-environmental revolution, because the more than a hundred and twenty first urban buses, which entered into operation in 2003, were followed by dozens of wastewater from the municipalities, which incorporated funding from European, Community programmes so as to have environmentally friendly wastewater. So we're on a good path. Is that enough? The answer is no, it's not enough. Because we do not want to be either simple users of ready-to-eat cars with an electric motor or a gas engine, nor at the same time do we want to be importers of raw fuel, i.e. only imports of gas. So here comes the second national strategy, which was under way and which, unfortunately, is under government responsibility, is unthinkable for reasons which are unexplainable, the country is able to play a role in the energy hub in the wider region. And through this possibility we can have the cheapest raw material, cheaper gas through the implementation of gas pipelines, which are in progress, but also through the upgrading of liquefied natural gas infrastructure. I do not want to say any more, except for the titles for the well-known TAP pipelines, which the then opposition and current government voted against, for the East Med pipeline, which connects the natural gas deposits of Cyprus to Crete, the Peloponnese and the rest of Western Europe, via Italy. I do not want to say anything about other initiatives, such as the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline. All of this forms a grid of infrastructure that upgrades geostrategically, geopolitically and geo-economicly in our homeland. We must add to that something else, which exists in this new approach, a regional dimension. I am thinking of upgrading the Revithoussa liquefied gas station, which is a station with a liner, with an investment of more than EUR 160 million, is now being formed into a total pillar of a new supply, not only of the national gas system, but also of our northern neighbours. In this direction, this unit, which we hope in 2018 will have completed its upgrade - we have already started from 2013, and the five-year period is sufficient to complete this programme - when it is combined with the floating liquefied natural gas plant in Alexandroupolis, which, as I have said, is included in the programmes financed by the European Union, create a second pillar of liquefied natural gas, which is a new hope and perspective for the energy economy throughout Europe. I would remind you that the liquefied natural gas up to three years ago and five years ago was considered and was more than 40% more expensive than the gas supplying the pipelines. Now it has reached a point that is just as cheap and possibly as new production, which exists in Australia, the United States and Canada, to see as Europe and as Greece a supply of liquefied natural gas at prices that may be lower than the price of natural gas coming through natural gas pipelines. Here, then, there is a new development perspective for the country associated with this bill. We have three options that the country should run. The first option with liquefied natural gas is finally to proceed with the use of liquefied natural gas in shipping. It's the new development in shipping. At the moment on an international level there are over sixty ships moving with liquefied natural gas and built - within the year will complete their construction - another seventy. In other words, we have a shift in shipping towards the use of liquefied natural gas. That was the first hypothesis. Second case: Use of liquefied natural gas in heavy transport, heavy goods vehicles, in lorries. It is a process that has already been implemented and there are all the safety standards in Europe. Here, for a country like Greece, with its special relief, it is of particular importance to develop such a fleet of trucks, heavy vehicles. The third is perhaps the most important of all. This is the possibility available to us through decentralised local gas distribution systems, powered by liquefied natural gas, to create decentralised networks in areas which are extremely difficult - not to say unlikely - to reach a gas pipeline. I'm talking about the whole island of Greece, I'm talking about Epirus, I'm talking about Iato-Carnania, I'm talking about Patras, Achaia, I'm talking about Elia. I am talking about areas where, under no circumstances is documented on the basis of the consumption of households and local industries, it is not possible to pass through a pipeline there. Here, therefore, the upgrading of the Revithoussa, the emergence of the country at a hub and the import pole of liquefied natural gas opens the wings of the national economy and local societies, in order to shape a new energy path for these regions, which, due to geography - islandity in one region and isolation due to mountainous volumes in the other region - can indeed enjoy the benefits of natural gas. Mr President, I will not spend any more time on these matters. Just say that before I close. Europe already has a delay in the introduction of gas cars. Of the twenty-three million worldwide vehicles, Europe marginally exceeds one and a half million to two million natural gas vehicles, most of which for historical reasons are in Italy. However, Italy and Germany have already started to create over a thousand loading points, i.e. over a thousand stations to supply. The great scandal of the 'VOLKSWAGEN' oil vehicles has begun and turned this great car industry into the other form we are discussing today in electric vehicles. So we have a revolution in the automobile industry. Here again - and I repeat - the national economy, the Greek know-how, the Greek entrepreneurship with a strategic plan, which the government has to shape, can play its part. To conclude, I should like to say that as far as the question of the article on offices is concerned, it is clear that we want the maximum possible security conditions, but the government must see how we could financially strengthen these agencies. There is a need for particular attention to be paid to the issue of the side road network used by Greek trucks over three and a half tonnes. I note specifically for Northern Greece and foreign trucks, which only go from one end of the country to the other. It is important, however, to see how we can protect the daily lives of the local populations from overloading this road. Finally, Minister, it would be useful to inform the House of what is going on with urban transport. Today there is a daily newspaper report that the airport of Greek is delayed for several months because the ETHEL train station, the road transport of OSH, which should have already been transported and started to be attributed, not only has not been transported but has not yet found the area in which it will be moved. Consequently, an action by the Greek State, an obligation by the Greek state - you have signed for this, as a government - which you should have implemented since October, it is now revealed that, not only has it not been implemented, but there has not been any preparation. So, since we have no intention as a Greek society to pay fines and charges from the unsatisfactory operation of the services and the government, we want you to inform us at what stage are urban transport, about the way the buses and the means of fixed tracks are operating, which are in strike mobilisations and at what point we are in relation to the installation of the road station, so that the area of the Greek area as a major investment area begins to be attributed, in order to change the form of Athens for the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the Lebanese High School of Fiftidos (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Syntrakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in relation to the amendment you have tabled, it gives us a little impression why it is suddenly imported...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u27	He's been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u28	If he's been through and it doesn't make sense to talk, not to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u29	It's wrong to formulate and I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u30	Minister, I understand that you want to reply in order to clarify some things. But because you didn't hear what you said or say on the microphone or keep them to tell your position afterwards. I would like to give you a minute to answer the question of perhaps the special speaker, Mr Syntagakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u31	I'll be in later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u32	Good. Mr. Symphony, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u33	Mr President, to clarify this: if there are ambiguities or has already been tabled or I do not know what else, it is preferable to clarify it now, so that we can see whether or not we want to introduce or what problems we may find.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u34	Mr. Synthraki, would you like to give the floor to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u36	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u37	If I may, I should like to take the floor in order to facilitate the process, because the New Democracy has also asked questions. That is not the government's amendment. We intended this topic to regulate it in a next draft law that we are going to bring. It has, however, been passed by Parliament as a parliamentary amendment with a wording which does not serve its objective, namely the people affected by natural disasters, without insurance and tax information, to be able to take their money. What was distributed to you today is not a ministerial amendment, it is a parliamentary amendment. We were given it to the Members who want to correct what was voted on to see a correct wording. In order for us to accept what the Members of Parliament have asked for, I believe that the representatives of the parties should agree, because I pledged that we would not make any amendments, we would not bring any amendments to the committee when we had the agreement. I'm saying this so there's no misunderstanding. If you want, to inform the New Democracy as well, of what we have seen, it is that natural disasters in the law are just a few of what they are. It's the earthquakes, it's the floods, it's the fires. When we say'support', and that is only one of them. It is not the provision concerning specific theory. This is another regulatory framework. We are talking about general provisions here. Generally speaking, when we have compensation for natural disasters, in accordance with the law in force, we do not require insurance or tax information. That money should go to those who deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u38	Minister, it's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u39	Mr. Maniatis, it's written in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u40	Isn't that restraining?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u41	It's restraining because it's the Ministry's competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u42	I'm sorry, look. I gave the Minister the floor by interrupting the special speaker of the Communist Party. The Minister is prepared to explain the amendment, which - not least - has not been formally tabled, but 'unofficially' has been shared in Parliament's groups, in order to take note of the amendment which may be tabled. These are unprecedented things. You like me, Minister, but these are unprecedented things. You are either tabling an amendment or not. Now you are tabling an amendment which we are discussing, with objections, etc. Secondly, this amendment, as I said, has not been tabled, has not even signed by the Member or group of Members, whoever wishes to sign it, has no report from the State Accounting Office, has nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u43	Mr. President, I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u44	Excuse me, are we going now? This is not a procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u45	I understand the formality of the procedure that you have to take care of, but before I accept some of the amendments, I think it would be reasonable, since I have made a commitment to the parties so as to agree on any amendment, to give them the wording that Members themselves want to correct in order to say whether or not they accept it. If it is, all this is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u46	Minister, I'm sorry, but nothing changes with this. As the Ministry, as a government or Members of Parliament, they may table an amendment, which means a specific position, if you wish, on a matter. I say this in general, but I am not saying it for this. Since the Minister, the Government, the Ministry, accepts this amendment and introduces it for discussion, the debate on the amendment and on our parliamentary procedure in plenary opens up. So, what's this about? Excuse me, but it's unprecedented. At least I've never lived that thing before. I would ask that the amendment be formally tabled. I conclude by making sure that the amendment is formally and normally tabled on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, there is time to discuss either today or tomorrow. I think that that is what we need to close and continue with Mr. Synthrakis. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u47	Starting with what was said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u48	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u49	Now, Minister, will we have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u50	We are not tabling any amendments. If a number of parliamentarians want to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u51	It is therefore considered that it is only important to say, for our part, at least and to confirm, if you wish, that with absolute care, with ambiguities, a parliamentary amendment is tabled, unwritten with everything that has been said, in any case. And from this point of view, we are not accepting it, at least. We have, however, tabled another amendment, which concerns contracts for indefinite duration of the company 'CRITERIA OF INFRASTRUCTIONS S.A.'. It's an amending arrangement. We ask that Article 66 of the Treaty be replaced. 4369/2016, by which they have already returned to their work in an indefinite position to part of the company's recruited contractors, with the specific amendment, which aims to include all those who had the same work characteristics and to restore equivalency and to prevent unequal treatment between employees, recruited by means of notices, to the companies "OK SA" and "DEPANIM SA". We believe it is a restoration that needs to be done, because these workers are meeting fixed operational needs. The company needs these workers' services for qualified scientific staff. We're talking about engineers, civil engineers, architects. The object is school accommodation and nursing establishments. And we think that this regulation will solve problems of operating this company. In relation to this draft law, the government has made three important commitments to the European Union in the context of the second assessment of the third memorandum. These are requirements of the OECD and of the large capital, relating to the incorporation of Directive 94/2014 on alternative fuel and transport infrastructures, the simplification of the licensing procedure, secondly, provisions for the simplification of authorisation procedures for LPGs, LPGs and mixed plants and other provisions and, thirdly, provisions concerning the prohibition of the use of the national road network by lorries and arrangements for the liberalisation of the profession of civil engineers, architects and topographers. The incorporation of this Directive 94/2014 into Greek legislation, as reflected in Articles 1 to 13, is part of the deep core of European Union policy and is related to the mobility of Euro-Union monopolistic groups in order to enhance their competitiveness in relation to similar objectives of the United States and Russia, with a view to reducing energy costs for their benefit. They are seeking to gradually dismantle Russian gas and oil, to seek new sources of supply of energy products, to reduce their energy dependence on imports in general, which is also a huge source of economic resources. These plans, in our opinion, are part of the famous 'green economy', thus misleading people that the environment is being protected, a philosophical way out of the crisis is guaranteed, that it contributes to social well-being, without, of course, conflicts with the power of monopolies. In other words, they serve essential and propaganda objectives of capital at international level. Thus, the main cause of the acute problems of the environment, which is no other than unregulated growth, is the capitalist profit, the commercialisation of the wealthy sources: land, water, energy, etc. The imperialist centres, of course, are concerned about the depth and duration of the crisis. They seek out a way out of sufficient profitability for their overcompensated funds. They are interested in investing in new profitable sectors, such as the alternative fuel, LPG, compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas. But let us ask some questions: Firstly, who will benefit from incorporating this directive? Who will benefit from the development of infrastructures in ports, marinas, but also on land, in engines and engines of all modes of transport and, indeed, in a specific timetable, as laid down in the directive? And above all, who's gonna pay for these infrastructures? The monopolistic groups are the ones who are not going to put a single cent in this story before all. On the contrary, they will gain great profits. The people who will pay for it will be the popular layers, the well-known mortgages, which will be called upon to pay the cost of infrastructure. Secondly, some will benefit and some will disappear in the transport sector. What about depreciation in the transport sector? Who's gonna pay the bride? But the young and the self-employed will suffer the consequences by putting a locker on them. Thirdly, will the people have cheaper fuels and access to the means of transport? To all these questions you do not want to answer fundamentally, because these measures serve the objectives of the monopolistic groups, which seek to shield competitiveness and maximum profit. They don't even care about the environment. On the one hand, they destroy the environment, since the criterion is not protection but profit, i.e. two concepts that are incompatible, and on the other they criminalise the disaster, which people will be asked to pay, in fines, in taxes and other ways. The 'green economy', therefore, is nothing but a proposal to manage and exploit the problems of the environment for the benefit of the strategic interests of large capital. And this alternative fuel directive does not come from a certain interest in the environment and the consequences of climate change. It is ejected by the ruthless competition of imperialist centres and strong monopolistic groups to control markets. They reflect the use of any technological innovation for the benefit of capitalist profitability. With the incorporation of this European Directive into Greek legislation and the compulsory introduction of a national policy framework is reflected in relief and the Government's aim is to ensure the investment certainty of major business interests and to enhance their competitiveness and profitability. It seeks for the domestic capital, industrial and logistics, the emergence of Greece in a Southeast Mediterranean energy hub in order to increase their special weight in the region. It has already prepared the ground, through incentives and tax exemptions, facilities and simplifications for the fast track licensing of investments relating to the creation and development of the appropriate infrastructure. These objectives will carry the burdens of the crisis to the workers' backs. Working conditions and industrial relations in these sectors will not change for the better. Black labour relations and flexible working hours will remain even worse, and the price of labour will be even more compressed, and the people's family will not get rid of energy poverty, expensive invoices and expensive means of transport. Ladies and gentlemen, these pursuits are pushing the country deeper into the dangerouss for the peoples of intra-imperial competition. There is no need for these pursuits with the imperialist war mitigating in Syria, the involvement of the United States, NATO, the European Union, Russia and the control of oil and gas routes, with developments in Ukraine, the exacerbation of competition between the United States and Germany, between the Euro-Atlantic Axis and Russia. These moves, the pursuits, reflect developments in our country in the energy sector, preparations for enhancing the security of supply of the monopolies of the European Union and Greece with gas. With the extension of the infrastructure of the LPG plant in Revithussa, a total budget of nearly EUR 160 million, with the completion of which will increase, both the station's storage area of 73% and the gasification capacity, the Revithoussa plant, which temporarily stores these quantities of LNG, is re-restricted and powered by the natural gas network, is among the thirteen liquefied natural gas stations currently operating throughout the Mediterranean and Europe. In fact, the European Commission has already approved the financial assistance of EUR 7 million from the European Regional Development Fund, 'hot' money, which will be paid by business groups that will undertake gas transmission and distribution projects. So, by providing for the enhanced importance of our country's role due to transitory and geostrategic importance on the LNG market, as well as the fact that in the near future the European Union will need greater amounts of liquefied natural gas from new sources to enhance its infamous energy security and reduce its dependence on natural gas, it is interested to create two further liquefied natural gas terminals in northern Greece, one in the maritime area south of Alexandroupolis and another in the Gulf of Kavala. It is also a random investment interest, along with the views of the European monopolistic groups and transatlantic groups to promote LNG loads in Europe, although the US liquefied natural gas imports and the regasification process may cost up to 30% more. An interest has already been shown by an American group for selling American natural gas to Greece and the wider vital area of south-eastern Europe, as well as for participating in the construction of the planned liquid gas installation in Alexandroupolis, with thoughts for access outside the Greek market and in Bulgaria through the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline and in a second phase in Serbia, Romania, Ukraine and Turkey. The same interest is shown by Greek shipowners. Taking the message for some time now, they have already served on LPG ships orders that exceed four billion dollars. In the first half of 2014, Greek shipowners ordered eighteen LPG ships and then proceeded. In this way, therefore, the government gives the bishops a green light, making our country an area of strong competition from European, transatlantic and Russian business groups to ensure huge profits, with the prospect of an overall improvement in domestic capital. The New Democracy, the PASOK and the other Euromono street parties are in the same spirit, in the same strategic line as SYRIZA - ANEL. Any disagreements and any quarrel between them are about who most of the incentives and greater government funding in the big capital for green investment through the new NSRF, development laws, anti-popular tax reform. They support green entrepreneurship, colour green restructures in energy, they are aligned with European directives. Of all these designs, the country's popular layers have nothing to expect. Instead, all these billions will be paid for the profits and energy adequacy of monopolistic groups, while for the people, energy poverty will be intensified. In relation to the second and third chapters relating to the sectors of workers, gas, workshop owners, repairers of cars and truck owners, we have to say that we are satisfied with outstanding OECD recommendations and again with the pretext of protecting the natural and cultural environment, and in this draft law there are provisions that fragment the professional rights of repairers of cars, while, on the pretext of the necessary simplification of the procedures for granting and changing oil stations, there is another step in the transfer of control powers to individuals. In relation to the articles, we will be in the debate tomorrow. Give me a minute, Mr President, to say: I shall refer again to the fourth chapter, Article 28, on the banning of the use of lorries roads by road. It is necessary to prohibit the use of this road network by lorries over three and a half tonnes, including motor vehicles of self-employed persons and small public lorries. The government's policy has led to far too many deadlocks for their own safety, for truck drivers and for exterminated tolls. It is the government's policy that has increased, as has the previous ones, sharply the cost of transport, especially those of the smallest professional sector. Therefore, for us the solution cannot be given with prohibitions and fines, which only constitute tax policy. The solution could be the abolition of tolls on a safe and public road network. For all the rest, in relation to Article 29, which, in our view, is particularly serious and relates to the professional rights of civil engineers, architects and topographers, we will be dealing with specific issues tomorrow. That is all, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. The special speaker from the river, Mr. Amyras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contains some very important provisions and regulations on the dissemination or need and promotion of electricity mobility in Greece, as well as on the development of alternative fuel infrastructures. One would say that we are beginning to worry about agreeing so much and so often with Mr Spirtzi in various draft laws, but that is where we remember the integration of European texts and European directives! It is also welcome, however, for this step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u54	There's more but the directive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u55	Of course, there's more. Energy sources, therefore, are an opportunity to talk about how we see the country's energy slap in relation to both Europe and its neighbours and the needs above all Greeks. So the rule that we observe when we approach energy texts or others on the Potami is as follows: The energy sources we choose to promote clearly define the infrastructures in which we invest. Therefore, the cost of whatever infrastructure, whether large or small, can only be amortised by ensuring a long-term function on a sound and serious basis. Greece needs - and unfortunately, it has not succeeded - an energy policy that is compatible with public health, the environment, the productive base and the needs of the country's production base - the real economy we are saying - and, of course, it must go hand in hand with global and, in particular, European developments, which are at the forefront of energy issues. In Europe there is an energy shift to the RES, renewable energy sources. There are important funds that are already available, but others that are coming. That is why, now more than ever, Greece should finally shape a long-term energy plan to exploit the growth potential in Europe, but also achieve, as it has committed itself, its climate targets and not bear the additional cost of paying for emissions of pollutants. Let's just go and see what's going on with renewable energy sources, the RES in Europe. Infiltration in the energy balance of RES in Denmark is 43%. There mostly, they make use of wind power and biomass. In Iceland and Norway, penetration is 100%, geothermality and hydroelectric. They are, of course, geothermalized by these countries. And in Greece we have geothermality, but we leave it untapped or are not yet ready psychologically - I don't know why - to deal with. Spain has entered 31% of RES, Portugal 20%, Italy and France 17% and the United States of America 13%. I have been to this Chamber before and by this Stepa that I am fascinated by the example of a small island in Denmark, the island of Samso. He has a population of four thousand. I mean, it's a small-scale, small-scale, Greek-speaking island. This island is green energy. What did farmers do there? They have built cooperatives, with the help of any government and the banking sector there is healthy. Some money was borrowed, that is, 6 million euros a year and in a decade they have already invested 60 million euros and built two wind parks. One is offshore, within the sea and has ten wind turbines. The other is onshore, on the coast, and has nine wind turbines. Farmers are taking advantage of them. They are committed by the loans and by the agreement with the government, by a percentage of the revenues of renewable energy to go towards the repayment of the loans, to reinvest in the region, and even there they took care of what Mr Tsipras said, but they still have not achieved it, that is to say, to put into their contracts with the banks and with the government the so-called 'development clause'. The more we grow, the more money we give back. They also laid down an employment clause, that the majority of the workforce would come from the island. So this is the island where it's glamorous. In the United Kingdom, instead of colluding with the Church, they decided to cooperate. So listen, ladies and gentlemen, what they agreed there. Three and a half thousand British churches have decided to leave fossil fuels for their heating and other needs and to go, with the help of the government, to renewable energy sources. Already a thousand nine hundred twenty two universal parishes operate entirely with renewable energy sources and beyond the Catholic Church, nine hundred twenty homes and locations of the Salvation Army made the transition to renewable energy sources. Also, a hundred homes of the British Quaker Assembly and six hundred ninety individual congregations from each dogma joined - to say so - in green development, in renewable energy sources. But I'm keeping it from you for the end. The bells in the United Kingdom's Sommerset are rebuilt to provide broadband to farmers and villages. So do you see how advanced the Church and their governments are? The selfish ones have already been conquered and are now moving forward. Imagine that in the bells of the churches they have set transmitters for Wi-Fi broadband networks. In Denmark that fascinates me, precisely because the Danes do not have much - a flatadura - do not have neither the geophysical relief of our country nor the dynamism of Greek cosmopolitan, the Greek mind, but they are realistic. What do they get out there in abundance? Straw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u56	We're making the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u57	We've been doing the same here, I know, and overproduction in recent years, I'm afraid to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u58	But here we eat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u59	But there, with straw, they don't feed the world. What are they doing with straw, ladies and gentlemen? They make it biomass and sell it from 80 to 100 euros to industries, to houses, and so the straw, which has taken us several decades back here, I would say that, in relation to us, it takes them centuries after. In Greece, ladies and gentlemen, we have 10,000 000 tonnes of straw and biomass produced annually. Where's that? Lost. What are the main problems preventing the development and penetration of renewable energy sources in our country? The delays in project authorisations, unclear spatial planning issues. The lack of information for the citizens - I am not talking about it - is on the first agenda, but not just for that and so much for that. Another problem is the delay in interconnections, as many islands are autonomous networks. Furthermore, electricity producers from RES remain unpaid and are slaves to long-term late payments, which leads their businesses to the limits of their viability. So, instead of being in the forefront, Greece is in the process of getting assimilated to the end, Uragua. I had tabled a question with a general number of 170 asking the current government about something that was still pending, of course, by the previous governments, what is going on with the hybrid project - half hydroelectric and half wind - in Ikaria, a large investment, with guaranteed funding already under way by the European Union. This work, ladies and gentlemen, is devastated. The money of both Europe and national participation is lost, because it does not open a road to connecting hydroelectric work to the main public road. I'm telling you, Mr. Spirtzi, because I want you to be interested. The Ikariots have been telling you, honestly, ten years now, about lost money. I hope you do something. PPC RENEWABLES S.A. had answered my question that at the end of 2016 the project would have been unlocked and would have been completed. Go! Go! Go!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u60	It's a strange sense of time in Ikaria, that's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u61	It's a strange sense of time in Ikaria. Of course, that is true, but it is our intention to go to some other rhythms. Dear Minister, I would like to remind you, since we are discussing the way in which we are going to go at another time, that of alternative fuels, that the government has left behind - I say politely - in the fight against fuel smuggling. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministers of the SYRIZA Government, both in the first term and in the present, have promised - not in recent months, of course - a billion euros from the fight against fuel smuggling. But what the hell are these smugglers? Is that some kind of phantom? Why can't the Greek state ever catch them? Do you know in the first half of 2016 how many litres of unleaded smuggled fuel were seized by the customs authorities? Hold on! Sixty litres! Because I don't have a car, I don't know how many litres a car fits. Who is the Greek state afraid of? Why does it not put the fight against fuel smuggling first? And where is that input-out system that controls the stations? We've been listening for years. It wasn't Arta's fugitive either. Finally, I will tell you that we are looking into the amendments. We'll study them tomorrow. Mr Karamanlis said a few very important things in relation to the clarification we want, that is, he covered us with what he said. Otherwise, we will vote in favour of the bill. I hope we are all a little wiser on how priests in England and how farmers in Denmark make use of their own natural wealth. Because straw is natural wealth, as long as you know how to use it properly and not pass it as food for the mind. Oh, and now that I remembered, ending up, do something about fuel smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u62	Thank you to Mr Amyras and to the economy of time. And before I give the floor to the next special speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, 50 students and apprentices and four educational sessions from the Liberian High School of Fiftis (second section). We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear George, at least Europe unites us. I want to welcome the children and wish them good progress. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing establishes a new policy framework for the development of the alternative fuel infrastructures, and lays down the technical specifications for the supply points, the permits for such workshops and the certification of specialist craftsmen, and, as the Minister responsible has also stressed, our country becomes the sixth country between the twenty-seven which is in line with the European directive on the development and expansion of the market beyond oil. Enlargement of this market is required by increasing demand, confirming the rule that supply and demand are conditions interrelated. I am referring to the demand for engines, which operate on alternative fuels, which is globally growing, while the service network is expanding rapidly to serve the increasing number of consumers, automatically confirming the developments in the gas sector, even when the automotive industry produces new models - and professionally and IX - which use natural gas. In order to better understand the need to introduce the arrangements under discussion, we need only mention an important element. In the European and Greek market IX and professional CNG models from all major automotive industries, while their range is constantly expanding with new models. We are therefore observing a change in consumer preference, which is influenced by the fact that the NNG gas is considered to be the most economical alternative fuel. Its price is about 60% lower compared to gasoline, 30% lower than oil and about 40% lower than LPG. Even more useful to the economy, however, but also to the environment, are elements of a study involving the maritime industry. While, according to studies carried out, the use of fuel oil continues to be the main fuel for shipping, there will be an increase in the diversification of the fuel mix with liquefied natural gas LNG and is projected to represent up to 11% of the open sea shipping fuel. The volatility of oil prices, the constantly changing regulatory framework and the expected high growth in shipping transport are factors that change trends and demands in the energy sector and are a good reason for shipowners to adopt alternative fuels as the main source of movement of their fleets. In view of the global shift in alternative fuels, therefore, our country must move quickly in order to activate directly and indirectly involved sectors, by emphasizing employment in the energy, industry and automobile industry. In particular, the provisions of the draft law are redefined as the procedure for granting authorisation for the establishment, operation and change of the holder of authorisation for a liquid fuel, a LPG or a mixed station, and the relevant inconsistencies are updated. Chapter I lays down minimum standards for the creation of infrastructure, including the rechargeable electrical vehicles and the refuelling points for LNG and CNG gas and hydrogen. In addition, the technical specifications for the reloading and refuelling points are laid down and the specifications for how to inform users are to be made. Chapter B is what it is through the arrangements it is trying to implement the above policy, as it promotes simplifying the authorisation of liquid fuel stations and speeding up all relevant procedures, while applying the OECD's pending recommendations on the environment and fuel marketing authorisations. In other words, the authorisation procedure for the establishment and operation of a licence holder and the process for changing the authorisation for a liquid fuel, a liquefied gas station or a mixed plant shall be redefined and the relevant paradigms shall be updated. Chapter III redefines the specification of pressure-pressure ventilation valves for liquid fuels. The installation of a mixed distributor of LPG and liquid fuels in mixed LPG and LPG retailers on vehicles is also permitted, in accordance with the specifications laid down. At the same time, the obligation is abolished for mixed service stations of at least 10 metres' distance between the LPG distribution devices and the gasoline pumps, since the aim is to maintain the LPG stations in urban areas, by imposing appropriate safety measures, so that they also continue to operate. In particular, it shall be permitted, after 10 December 2017, to continue the operation of existing liquid fuel stations or public car stations equipped with liquid fuel pumps operating on the ground floors in which the specified uses are housed, subject to specific conditions. In addition, the authorisation of new stations for liquid fuels or new public motor vehicles, equipped with liquid fuel pumps, on ground buildings with floors, on which the defined uses are housed, in accordance with the measures laid down. I would like to focus on the issue of the use of the side road network or better on banning it. I would like here to ask for clarification. When we say a national side, do we mean the national road network? Because here needs some attention. For example, in the rest of the European Union there is nothing like that. In Italy, for example, they are autostrade, motorways, but there are other roads, the so-called'strade statale' or'supertrade'. They have the ability of trucks to use all the streets. There's no way out. If, of course, they choose autostrada, they pay tolls. Here, of course, we have the problem with the high price of tolls, which is that transport costs are excessively burdened and that is carried over to the cost of products, which is contrary to what we say, in the effort made by the Government for development. Here, therefore, at this point, special attention is needed. I really welcome the Minister's decision, which I read the other day in the press - of course the Minister himself himself said - that it is in the intention to review the level of tolls. I would also like to stress the need to look in a special way at the issue of foreign vehicles. If you remember, Minister, we had discussed this issue here and when the Public Procurement Act had been tabled, where I proposed to see - and this is the case at some point - the issue of imposing the so-called 'vignette' on foreign vehicles. It's something that's true for Austria, for Switzerland. That is to say, by entering foreign vehicles at the border or at the gas stations - abroad there is also in the stations - to be able to supply themselves with the burger - this is something similar to Greek drivers, who pay the traffic charges - to supply themselves with a sticker, which will be placed in the windshield and able to use the Greek road network. As far as the reduction of internal distances is concerned, Mr Minister, we have been discussing this yesterday. This reduction of 10 m, as it was with the bill before, is indeed in a positive direction and indeed the whole world sees it with a very positive eye. The agencies will now have the corresponding possibility in Europe's service stations. What we saw in Europe's service stations is that the driver enters a service and has the possibility, whether he uses petrol or petrol or liquid fuels and any type of gas, to be able to go to the corresponding pump, we will have the opportunity to enjoy it here in our country. As yesterday, Minister, I asked you to look at the matter of external distances, because there is a serious problem. And I really want to welcome you too, because yesterday you said that it was your immediate priorities to harmonize ourselves on this point with Europeans too. So look at the matter of distance reductions. I would like to bring you the satisfaction of a lot of people in Thessaloniki and Macedonia, because they have heard your statements yesterday about the fact that it is in your immediate priorities to reduce external distances. This decision is really very important, Minister. To conclude, I would also like to stress the very positive aspect of the fact that autopsy is now being abolished and what is needed now in terms of the suitability of the land or land, whether documents or certifications, etc., which is why the engineer who will take care of the study, supervision, etc. In addition, with regard to the post-implementation phase, for the good implementation and compliance with the study file, the engineer will still be responsible for it. And that, as we said yesterday, will have a positive effect on the cost, quality and speed of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, and for the time economy. Before giving the floor to the last special speaker from the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, I would like us to reach an agreement on the continuation of the procedure. Mr. Saridis is the last of the special speakers. This concludes the cycle of intervention by the parliamentary groups. As you know, five speakers have been on the list, of which three will be given the floor. I therefore propose that, after the end of the cycle of special speakers - rapporteurs, the three speakers should be given the floor - we have already reached agreement with the Minister - the Minister and then the parliamentary representatives. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u65	The House therefore agreed. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a fact. Those with no arguments question the validity of the global meteorological service and choose not to take seriously into account, as they do, its recent dramatic warning about increasing the average temperature of the planet and the subsequent rise in ocean levels offer a bad service to humanity, as Mr Shoeble would say. Even if the new government of the United States puts new obstacles to the global effort to combat the bad practices of human intervention on the planet, Greece must stand up to the circumstances and - despite the irresponsible and irrational economic crisis which plagues its citizens - to adopt good and environmentally friendly practices. Greece, even under these circumstances, can and must claim a sustainable, clean and healthy environment for its children, grandchildren, for the next generations. The harmonisation of Greek legislation with Directive 94/2014 on the development of the necessary and necessary infrastructure for the development and enhancement of the use of alternative fuels demonstrates that in our home country there is the political will to synchronise our pace with the European peoples and to continue on the path towards electricity, of course, strengthening the liqueurisation of gas, as well as the more general use of hydrogen and natural gas. Ladies and gentlemen, Chapter I of the bill and, in particular, Articles 1 to 13 relating to Directive 94, we are fully in agreement with the Central Association. It is our conscious choice to support this policy of strengthening the use of alternative fuels in our country, which, as I have said before, has a great need. The issues dealt with in Chapter II and Chapter III are to a large extent technical and therefore it is very important that, following the rules of good legislation, the Minister has taken care to draw up the relevant Articles 14 to 20 of Chapter II on simplification of the process of authorisation of wet and mixed fuels service stations and Articles 22 to 27 of Chapter III, which concern very serious safety issues for workers in service, in consultation with operators. It is of great importance to us that these provisions emerged after the unanimous opinion of the stakeholders, as they appeared from their positions in committee. In Chapter IV, the latter, there are two very important articles that need special attention. The drafting of the Presidential Decree, as provided for in Article 29, on the chronological and long-awaited regulation of the profession of engineer, will determine in a substantial and catalyst the future of thousands of fellow engineers. Two are the main reasons why we choose to support this effort of the Minister. On the one hand, professional rights in four categories of engineers are finally recognised in the resolution of this article - town planning, town planning and development engineers, environmental engineers, fossil resources engineers and production and administration engineers - and on the other hand, it is the composition of the committee, which will take over the drafting of the very important presidential decree and is satisfied with us and is convinced that the Ministry will continue to cooperate honestly, with the services involved and with all the stakeholders concerned. That does not mean, however, that we did not hear the concerns of the President of the TEI, who, as you once did, Minister, asked for the assent of the TEI to be required, but you did not do that to him. But if after the next five to six months, it turns out that these concerns were well founded, you will bring us all those who are chosen to support you, in a very difficult position, and you will have been exposed irreparably to your colleagues and engineers. The other very important article of Chapter IV is Article 28, which amends the second article of Law4338, which was voted on a while ago by the Greek Parliament, and we are trying to put an end to the dangerous phenomenon of the use of the side road by heavy professional vehicles, in order to avoid the very high cost of toll crossing. We believe that, in fact, this amendment improves a law, which is implemented in accordance with your relevant ministerial decision, knowing that only 9% of the fatal road accidents occur on the national roads, and indeed at some point we had to deal with what is happening on the side road, which very recently was able to clarify exactly what is happening on the side. Until recently, the truth is that no Greek government could answer the very simple question of what is defined and what is the parallel alternative road network. So it is this network that almost all professional drivers choose to avoid the unbearable cost of tolls. This is the alternative, our serious and essential objection to this provision. We will look after and place ourselves on this article tomorrow waiting for your own thoughts. And we want to record that we believe that as long as tolls are expensive, this phenomenon will continue, that is, that professional drivers will try to use, to avoid paying for this great cost of tolls, no matter what we do, they will continue. It's a survival struggle for them. I am not saying that the penalties provided for are correct. But that's not good enough. If we take into account that Greek taxpayers pay, without any legislation, about 25 million per year for the maintenance of the alternative road network, then we all understand that we must insist and come back with new regulations, especially if the Minister fails to negotiate discounts on tolls for professionals in the sensitive and critical national transport sector. This unbearable toll cost, which is to be transferred from the transporters? Won't it be passed on to the products? It won't be passed on to the final consumer? Is that what we want to achieve? Is that our target? Knowing the Minister, I know this isn't our goal, but can't a solution be found? Should we not have negotiated the end of the toll and then entered this arrangement? In closing my positive suggestion at the outset, I will make a quick reference to the points of the bill and in view of the debate tomorrow on the articles and we expect some improvements from our side: Article 2 does not specify sufficiently the size of the vehicles or their intended use. Perhaps there, Minister, the size of these vehicles should be determined. In Rule 4, I am also waiting for the answer to the question put by Mr Amyras to the committees - he left a moment ago - on whether we have started consultations with other states and, if so, at what stage. Of course, taking into account the fact that very few European states, as you have just said, have harmonized their legislation, I imagine that such discussions should not have taken place. In Article 9, and in particular in Annex 1, which is also incorporated into Greek legislation, it speaks of some kind of incentive that we could give in order to attract investment and develop electricity consumption and the use of alternative fuels. We would like it to be as specific as the Minister can on how we will claim this opportunity, which you are opening with the specific provision in Annex 1. For Article 21, although still not costed and no type of timetable is foreseen, the importance of the efficient operation of the digital office register is enormous, as the whole fate of this law will essentially be judged in practice. I believe that by voting on this bill we are taking a positive step forward with consensus and responsibility. Of course, everything will be judged by the proper application of the law. Now, in wanting to take advantage of my time and as it is difficult for the Minister to find himself, I would like to speak for myself on two issues relating to my city, Thessaloniki, which still lives with the threat of new strikes by OSH workers. Your ministry will also have to deal with this issue soon, Mr Spirtzi, in a definitive way, so that the Thessalonians cannot continue to be held hostage. I also want to remind you of your promises about the issues of professional car operators in Thessaloniki. You are committed - and I know you are keeping your commitments - to consider the issues that concern them soon and in depth. These are issues which we all recognise are very serious and some of them are urgent. We must not disappoint them, Minister. This morning I was the rapporteur in the harmonisation of the directive which was discussed in plenary. I listened carefully to the contributions of colleagues from the other parties on developments in the serious issues relating to the question of the Lausanne Treaty by the Turkish President. I welcome the amendment tabled by the European People's Party calling for the formal condemnation of these statements. Europe is probably frozen from the unequivocality of the Erdogan declarations or whatever they may mean. I would like to believe that there will soon be an organised and steadfast response from all European institutions. Other European nations sign the Treaty of Lausanne. We expect to know their reaction. Ladies and gentlemen, my first thought, when I heard on the evening of July 15 - last July - the emergence of the attempted military coup in the neighbour and allied Turkey, was what the forty-five thousand Turkish soldiers in the occupied territories of Cyprus will do. I must admit that, as a member of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, the second question that was born to me at the time and followed up to this day was in the light of the emerging developments and anxiously awaiting President Anastasiades' message to the Cypriot people tonight. I will share this question with you today in plenary. What should Greece do, that is, if the coups proceeded to an attempt to annex the occupied territories? That's my question. Of course, it was solved from the point of view, as democracy that night had won. That's how he called us. A democratic Turkey could not do - they said - such thoughts. A European Turkey could not even think of moving towards such an extremely dangerous energy. A Turkey, which respects international law and is aware of its role as a member of the international community, cannot be treated in this intimate way, jeopardising all the security of the Southeast Mediterranean. The problem is, however, that since the victory of democracy in Turkey on 16 July to this day, we have heard something that we have never heard of the hundred years that have passed and felt the threat that we have never experienced forty years. I was born, then, with the question, which I share with you here today in plenary, in the rest of the time that I have left: What should Greece do if Mr Erdogan is serious? That was my question, and I wanted to share it with you. I say again, as far as today's bill is concerned, that we support it in principle and wish to open a new door, a new horizon for alternative energy sources in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u67	With Mr Saridis, the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. I will give the floor to the speakers on the list. They are three or four speakers. The Minister will follow. Let's start with the first speaker on the list, Mrs. Kafantari, from SYRIZA. Come on, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u68	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of Directive 94/2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructures, etc. However, since the debate has also taken another character in general from the rapporteurs, Mr President, in relation to the country's energy policy, I would like to make a few points. Firstly, a multi-dimensional foreign policy is being implemented and the energy sector is crucial in this policy. Greece is inclined to become an energy hub, which will make a significant contribution to the security of supply of the European Union - something that is needed. Some in here have heard the past reminiscent, but we have to say two, three issues. We heard about TAP and we heard about the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline. So I would say that the TAP was signed by the present government, and indeed with compensation benefits of EUR thirty-two million - much more than the eleven agreed by the former government. Let me say about the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline, that he was also signed by the current government. At the moment, there is a national energy planning that our country needs, after years, based on the climate and energy framework by 2030, of course, as the European Union puts it. Now, we are discussing a bill, as we have said before, which in the committees has been broadly accepted, in the sense that it has been accepted not only by the government partners. The incorporation of this directive therefore opens up a window in the no longer distant future, in a future where vehicles will be powered by alternative fuels and have zero or neutral pollutants. A few years ago, who could imagine that the most polluting activity - and I am talking about transport - would be transformed in such a way that in a few years' time it will be a pure activity? In relation to the incorporation of the directive, we are one of the six countries of the European Union, which incorporate this directive. And the margin for incorporation, as far as I know, was also stated in the committee, expired on 18 November. We'll have vehicles that move no more with diesel and petrol, but with biofuels, hydrogen, and even electricity. In order for this to be possible, however, the infrastructures must also be developed. In other words, I have to say quite simply, there should also be the corresponding 'hydrogen stations', as we have so far, where vehicles powering with hydrogen cells can be supplied with the necessary hydrogen or there should also be electric power-driven points for electric vehicles. It is precisely this directive that we incorporate, that provides for the creation of alternative fuels infrastructures LNG, CNG, hydrogen, electricity. Already in the European Union, on the basis of 2015 data, electric cars are increasing globally, while in 2015 the European Union has more than one million. In this process, of course, they are the United States of America and the Asian countries. The European Union is the pioneer of sustainable energy, the promotion of RES, energy efficiency, low-carbon transport. What are the European Union's energy objectives for 2030? It concerns and is 40% greenhouse gas reduction, introduction, penetration of RES 27% and an increase in energy efficiency as well as 27%. These objectives contribute to achieving the ambitious objective set in December last year in Paris with COP 21. With the rapid increase in demand for liquefied natural gas for the movement of ships, since ships may have appropriate cryogenic equipment, it is undeniable that there should be facilities at all places, even in remote ports of the country, for adequate supply of vessels with LNG. Liquefied natural gas installations will be used both to refuel the ships that adapt to the ports of the country and to supply natural gas settlements, since it is also right for island settlements to be able to use natural gas while reducing oil use, both in electricity production and in use for heating in the winter months. Reducing the use of oil on the islands of the country, replacing it with natural gas, it is obvious that it will also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, since natural gas is more environmentally friendly. The same will happen with the use of the CNG by vehicles for their operation, since the gas is environmentally friendly again than liquid fuels, as well as LPG. It is therefore important to create these infrastructures both for the disposal of hydrogen and for the creation of high-speed electric vehicles. Both types of vehicle have few pollutants, since the electricity has few or no pollutants, and the hydrogen-fuelled vehicles have exhaust gas, what other than the water. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The two types of vehicle, namely electric motors and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, are currently on the agenda of the development of research activities of major car manufacturers in the world. Even in Greece, there are research institutes dealing with biofuels. Recently, on Monday, we went with the Committee on Trade Producers in the CFP and saw important scientific initiatives and research carried out there. Many plans for clean movements have been submitted to date. In Iceland, a plan had been drawn up for the complete conversion of all vehicles and their fishing fleet into hydrogen traffic by 2020, but a plan postponed until 2050, due to an economic crisis. The mayor of London has drawn up a plan for clean London. By 2018, all public and private vehicles, which will enter the city centre, must be zero-emissions, mobilised by hydrogen or power-driven. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In this context, the proposal being discussed in the Federal Parliament of Germany is also under way. As announced in Marrakesh recently at COP 22 on climate change, last week, in the framework of the Interparliamentary Conference which took place at the same time as the International Conference on Climate Change, the representative of the German Parliament announced that there is an attempt to get a resolution out so that all cars in circulation since 2030 in the European Union are zero-emissions. Electricity, therefore, seems to be a solution to road transport. As I have said, the European Union's objectives by 2030 are to penetrate the RES to 27%. But the rest is covered by fossil fuels, from lignite, from coal, from oil. I note even advanced, as we say, countries, for example in Germany, that electricity production is still largely based on fossil fuels, and so I dare say that electricity use of vehicles is not completely painless for the environment. On the other hand, the type of vehicle that can bring about a defiance of fossil fuels is vehicles with hydrogen fuel cells. Besides, the economy of hydrogen can offer alternatives, as dreamed of the great visionary of the previous century, July Vern, who said: "Water is the coal of the future." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. A long time ago, a lot of talk was about hay and hay and that in Denmark they are exploiting it and that they are turning it into energy. In Greece the rulers have it to feed various ignorants. I would like to make a reference to Article 28 concerning restrictions and exterior fines to truck drivers over three and a half tons, who are trying to avoid the robbery tolls of the national roads through side roads. And the robbery tolls were you, Mr. Spirtzi, SYRIZA, opposed. Mr Spiritzi, when you were in the opposition, you were all sworn by SYRIZA's people and not just that if you came to things - and you came to things, of course, you and too many of the transfers of PASOK were to come back from PASOK as SYRIZA claims up to now - would abolish the robbery tolls, you would renegotiate the colonialist, as you said, contracts with the various major-producers, as in this case of the Attica Road, where by offshore methods the Greek state would not collect, even from those contracts. You set up committees, the various committees 'I do not pay', where you called on people not to go through tolls, not to pay anything else. And now all those who did not pay, are called upon to pay with the above, with the fines and all the rest, the various "soft wigs" of the various SYRIZA executives. You are justifying your Stalinist bans and exterior fines which serve only the big-workers - concessionaires with arguments, as you say in Article 28, for reasons of safety and for reasons of physical environmental burdens. That's right. Of course, it is the memorials that have created the greatest security issues to Greek citizens at all levels, not only at the level of the side road networks and the memoranda have literally dissolved the environment. We see now that soon the cold will start, where everyone will burn in the various stoves not of course wood, but of whatever kind they find on the road or elsewhere. The memos are dangerous. They're not the professional drivers who are dangerous. And you don't convince anyone with the excuses you want to pass Article 28. In the years of the memorials, which you also serve faithfully, instead of being the left of the ethos and being at the forefront and showing the path of dignity, you continue to exterminate the transport sector, through the continuously reduced turnover of the various car drivers, whether owners or drivers, with the costs that are constantly rising up, as taxes, insurance, as fuels are constantly rising, with unfair competition from Bulgaria and Romania. In particular, the New Democracy insisted on signing, because it was governing the country, when these two countries entered the European Union and you wanted deaf and well to put them. Now nobody knows why? We know why. We have read today that 5 billion euros is the turnover of Greek companies in Bulgaria. To understand what you have been voting for so many years with unfair competition, as we have said, from Bulgaria and Romania, with drivers' wages being humiliated, because there is abundant offer from Romania, Bulgaria, where they work for 7-8 hundred maxims and, of course, with the exterminating tolls on which no one can handle it. We see that road traffic is constantly falling, toll revenues are falling and tolls are constantly rising, because contracts are being made - both even and zero - for big-workers and not for ordinary Greek citizens and will continue to fall. And what are you going to do? Then you'll ban the side streets after the trucks for both ICUs. And for the motorcycles and for all, we should have all pay tolls to serve each Bobolas. No driver wants to move, especially when he has a big truck, from a side road, which is disgusting, trissatholium, or for his own safety or for others. He's forced to do it because he can't afford the huge costs, which you've imposed on him with the memos. Fourteen tolls are from Athens to Thessaloniki and so many more back. To go to Tripoli, you want 25 euros. To go to Kalamata with the new tolls - today the new tolls have entered - someone wants around 35 euros. The world can't handle it, Minister. Either they continue to illegally or they will increase transport costs, so they will generally increase the cost of sellers, who use transport indirectly or directly, or they will close down, which is most likely. I would also like to make a small comment to another part of the bill, where you refer to electric cars. It's a very nice energy. In fact, there is also a percentage of the Greek state's participation in an effort, which is being done. But before we get to the electric cars and to all the nice things we hear and hear from several previous MPs about the fact that by 2030 cars that are moving will be automatically, they will only be powered or anything else, let us see the grim reality that we live in 2016-2017 in the middle of memoranda. Mr Spirtzi, we have asked you many times and questions, both timely and simple, both to you and to your fellow ministers. Here's a specific question: There's domestic automotive industry trying to start. If you don't know, we're talking about the company "NAMCO" in Thessaloniki with the famous "PONY", a very cheap car of Greek construction, from which they will continue to have four hundred and twenty-five jobs, I think, employees in this company in Thessaloniki and hundreds of others in marginal professions, such as catering, suppliers. You don't give them permission with a variety of pretexts and a lot of humiliations. You know, Mr. Spirtzi, what did they do? They'll start and have a seat in England. When the owner of this company went to England to say that he wants to start, the Minister responsible for open arms welcomed him and said: Come here, my child, come here, my good man, we want work. They've got thousands of cars for Egypt, and you're blocking them. You are blocking the bureaucracy, which reigns in this vicious Greek state, and another small company, Replicar Hellas, which managed to obtain approval for the cars it manufactures here, get approval from Germany and reintroduce them, if anyone wants, to Greece and to the whole of Europe. We had to be proud of these people, help them and motivate them so that others could come to this country. Also, this madman, as one will say, another Greek - even his name, I don't know, does not matter - with the "Korres Project", a super-car - similar to him does not exist throughout the world - has spent huge sums. The man's exhausted, and he can't do anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. You had to help them all to bring work to our homeland, to work with Greeks, to work with your relatives, friends, of any other acquaintance, who die, who have no food, who are begging and going with the coupons. So you want to make this Greece when it's with the coupons, then begging and saying: Yes, I will work for both 200 and 300 euros when I have nothing. That's why you're unsuccessful with the other guys, and you're not going to do anything. It is understood, of course, or slowly, by the Greek people. The principle has been made abroad. The British woke up, the Americans woke up. Tomorrow, it looks like the Italians are waking up too. The French keep calling. Here the French right and the one who took the lead in the inner-party elections is using Lepen's rhetoric in order to have some benefits, even if Lepen doesn't come out and they do. Teach before it's too late for all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Mr. Ursuzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in the bill we are discussing the incorporation into the Greek legislation of the relevant European directive on infrastructure development, so that alternative fuels can be safely disposed of in the country. We have to tell the world to understand what the concept of alternative fuel is. It is the fuel that replaces the fossil fuel, as we know it to this day. This category includes electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, preservatives, natural gas and hydrogenated petroleum gas. From reading this list of alternative fuels alone, one understands that the bill also has an environmental dimension, since it is obviously much clearer than fossil fuels. To do this, the aim of the draft law must be to lay down safe operation rules for the alternative fuel system and, of course, it concerns existing stations, which, as was submitted yesterday to the committee, are about three thousand, of which five hundred are housed in international buildings. Therefore, for this additional cost to be incurred for the safety of these stations and, in particular, those within the urban fabric, the state must ensure that these people are made easier. Let us not forget that we are living in conditions of economic crisis and should be helped so that their shops can operate as safely as possible. I went to Stepma today, to place myself mainly on Article 28, which deals with banning the transit of heavy goods vehicles on the side of the network. I was one of those who also supported in the Committee on Road Safety that this issue should finally be resolved because it concerns the safety of citizens. I have been called by too many people dealing with heavy vehicles, which are their job, to protest about what Article 28 refers to. I have to tell them that it is not possible to plan a road to provide maximum security for citizens, maximum security for the transfer of citizens' leverage and to choose a side road, which leads, according to the information we have at our disposal and cannot be called into question, to accidents which bring our country, even today in one of the worst positions among the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union. If we make a reduction in costs and compare what we deprive of development through tolls, as some colleagues have claimed, in relation to what the country is spending on the treatment of locomotives and given that 91% of road accidents occur outside the main road corridors, I do not think there is even any question of comparison. However, I am obliged to substantiate my word and that is why I will submit some information: having regard to a study carried out in 2003 in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, the cost of car treatment for the states mentioned above is around EUR 8,025 000 per year. In Greece, taking the 2000-2010 period - and I did this in order to match the time to prepare the study, in 2003, although the sizes are completely different in Greece, they are much larger - we have a total of seventeen-and-a-half thousand dead, twenty-four thousand severely wounded and ninety-thousand-thousand lightly wheeled. If we compare the rates, which are costly by road accidents, as I said before, in the previous categories, it is estimated that in Greece in the 200-2010s, 47 billion euros have been spent, and that is the most modest estimate. The experts who came to the Committee on Road Safety and mentioned their own estimates are estimated at around EUR 90 to EUR 100 billion. Of course, we must say that we do not have that sufficient documentation at our disposal, but we can draw some conclusions. The sizes, if not completely representative, approach reality with sufficient precision. So if we take the modestest estimate of the 50 billion that have been deprived of the country's development in the previous decade 2000-2010 and put them at risk of investment, or in any way we can afford to produce this country, you understand that it is funny to talk about whether we should be happy, that is to say, doing the grace of some people, not ensuring, among other things, healthy competition, because some choose the road network that offers greater security - I am talking about Ennaia and PATHE - while some choose to use paradoxes. These and only the two elements that I mentioned before obligate me to be placed in the way I am placed and to say that apart from human pain, the suffering caused by an accident, there are some costs. While someone goes to save some cost by not paying the toll, the damage - which is several billion - is socializing it and sharing it with the rest of society. That's not fair, it's not fair. In expressing the conviction that the development which we all hope for must be based on good reason, I can only vote for the bill, not least for that reason. I repeat that 91% of this cost relates to accidents outside the major motorways. This cannot be ignored and must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. You will give me a little more time because there were obviously no serious criticisms of the draft law we are discussing, there has been an extension of the debate in other areas of policy, and many of them are not even the responsibility of the Ministry. However, I would like to reply on this. Of course, I welcome the great consensus of both parties and the bodies on the draft law. I'm starting on the easy ones. Amendments: There are no ministerial amendments. There is a MEP for Mr Syntagakis and there is a second one. I do not know if the Members who wanted to be present will eventually testify to her. In order for the two amendments to be accepted - and I said this for the first time - I would ask Parliament's representatives to be placed. I am positive, but I am sure that they will be put on the table, because there is a commitment on my part that no further amendment will be tabled. So if the wings of Parliament are positive, we will also be delighted to see the one you have tabled, Mr Syntagakis, and the other. I would also ask for something, although the President has changed. It is good for Parliament, like the one I mentioned a moment ago, that there should be tolerance of the Bureau for such consultation between the government and the parties in public and not in the corridors or benches, underneath. That's good. I say this because I was presumably inaugurated before the Bureau for the question I asked if the parties were positive. The second issue is the following issues which have nothing to do with the draft law. Energy issues have been raised in connection with the penetration of renewable energy sources. Dear Mr Amyras, it is not just a political matter to penetrate the RES. It's mostly a technical matter. A large supply network of electric cars, which is included in the current draft law, raises the possibility of penetrating the Renewable Energy Sources. These are also the objectives that exist for the design of electric cars and smart cities, instead of having other cumulation facilities, to be able to use car accumulators for that reason. However, if alternative fuels and renewables are not used for energy production, if we can increase their penetration, then all we can do will be more pollutants where fossil fuels are currently produced. Therefore, it takes a very good national planning to bring it into line. The second issue raised is for the energy project in Ikaria. In addition to the time for which I told you that they have another sense in Ikaria, Mr. Maniotis is next to you and you can ask him which powers he did not want to complete this project. He's lived it, too. The third issue is about the ETHEL train station for the Greek. You probably do not know this, Mr Manatis: an agreement has been signed with ELLENIKI S.A., on the basis of which the OSH - not ETEL because there has been a merger - has quite a lot of scope for the transfer. It has more than 12 months to carry the train station. Any delays there are in the investment of the Greek - probably also of the contractor, look at whether you want - it would be nice not to try not to try to transfer them through the press to either the OSH or the government, because a corresponding problem exists in other privatisations that have started in the past. The fourth issue is not about today's draft law, but about Athens' urban transport. I say this again to the New Democracy for the urban transport of Athens, in relation to the mobilizations they make, if I remember correctly, two unions that "at the house of the hanged man they don't talk about rope". Are you relinquishing us for the restructuring plan that we voted on a year ago and moving on or for the mergers made by the previous governments that were irrational and hadn't proceeded with the merging companies? Are you asking us about the plan for the disorganisation of urban transport which we planned, when we took over the government, the rental of workers, the headhunters, the compulsory movement of workers and their effective privatisation, or the improvement of what is being done today? Are you telling us about the circuits that reveal one - one inside and outside the Urban Transport Agency? I really must inform Parliament of the circuits that have been revealed, when everything is being revealed. Apart from the circuit of theft of cash and ticket by employees of the STSY, another circuit of counterfeit tickets that were printed in the country was revealed when the previous management of the OSCE had been tendered with ticket specifications that were supposedly not able to copy and all the relevant information. Finally, one question: are you supporting the attitudes of the two of the six unions - I understand - and with what demands? No one has understood the demands of these unions. Perhaps you can help us understand them. But I guess it's not the demands you hired, and then you fired. We have reinstated them - there is no anxiety about it - and we are not thinking of making a single redundancies. Now let's go to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law, which is the result of a long-term work, a substantial consultation with the relevant bodies and a constructive negotiation with everyone on specific articles and specific guidelines in the draft law. In the draft law, we have three main targets. The first is that we are legislating for the first time on the conditions for the development of alternative fuel infrastructures by incorporating the relevant European directive. It is one of the few times that the incorporation of a directive is not a simple translation, but it sets the framework for our own national strategy. Today we are legislating on infrastructure, licensing and the promotion of alternative fuels. It will be followed, however, - and this is important, and it is a common objective from what I have seen from the debate that has taken place - the need for the establishment and development of the national alternative fuel policy framework. This is because it has a very great impact on both building a productive structure and on actions that have to do with the environment and the quality of life of all of us. We are then given the possibility, following the adoption of the draft law, of specialising the national policy framework, which is designed to demonstrate for the first time the scientific, technological and productive potential that we have as a country in the development of infrastructures and alternative fuels, and which we must support with economic incentives for entrepreneurship, using financial instruments, not only in the supply of technologies, as has been done so far in our country, but above all in their domestic production. An important example is the production and use of biofuels from biomass products - and other colleagues have said - which we are seeing in the main economic activities of the country, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries, aquaculture, and infrastructure that is now developed, such as processing industrial and urban waste, waste, so that the country starts to grow in a sustainable and orderly way, structures and conditions for environmental development and the economy, but also in actions that are compatible with agriculture and products, when you know that specific sectors of primary production have been affected, in order to support our farmers and farmers. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not the service of either a few monopolistic groups or another logic and direction of neoliberalism in Europe. In other words, finding five farmers in a county of the country and making available the waste that exists there or an agricultural cooperative to make a compatible agriculture does not help a monopoly group, helps our farmers and farmers and the economy of the country. We are building up a primary production that is not in the air. It is compatible agriculture and with guaranteed income if we go to specialisation of such policies. That is why it is very important that the national policy framework for alternative fuels is not yet another step forward, as is usually the case, but a binding map for the penetration of alternative fuels on the Greek market, that is to say, to include infrastructure development objectives, such as refuelling systems and electric vehicles, vehicle eco-planes, investments in the development of alternative fuel infrastructure and technologies and alternative forms of energy that our country has in abundance. We also have a duty - above all, as a government - to find the forms of financing and the specific incentives and policies that remove obstacles and encourage the use and production of these fuels. In particular, we are negotiating with the European Commission addresses to integrate alternative fuel bus market and their infrastructure into specific subsidies. In addition, at the upcoming Transport Council, we will discuss specific investments in alternative fuels, but we will also raise the issue of the institutional framework in general. Finally, our strategy, which you will see in the debate we are going to have and which you will all be involved in the national policy framework, is not just to 'rule' - in in introductory words - so as not to rejoice in Michalis - transport and shift pollution to the points of energy production, but also to take advantage of new technologies in order to increase decentralised production and storage of energy in the transport sector. With the completion of what I have just said, Greece will only be the sixth Member State to incorporate the directive and draw up a national framework for the market in alternative fuels. And the criticism of delay is probably unfair. There are countries that have gone on their own with alternative fuels and their infrastructure, but, as regards the transposition of the directive, we are probably ahead of the majority of the other European countries. With the second chapter of the draft law, we are improving the functioning and control of the fuel market and, at the same time, simplifying the licensing procedures, but we are tightening up the penalties where they really need to be, apart from the owners and operators of the stations, that is to say, those of the public authorities that do not perform their duties, in accordance with the laws in force in this legislation, and private engineers, if a false responsible statement is found. We are moving towards reducing and rationalising the necessary supporting documents and introducing binding deadlines for granting the relevant licences. We recommend the digital register for electronic recording of the fuel market. The aim of the register is to improve transparency, to check the specifications and quality that infrastructures must fulfil. Furthermore, the aim is to have a closer surveillance, especially at mixed stations that integrate alternative fuel infrastructure. In particular, the register shall record all operators' data and all premises and certificates. Here we are establishing a section that we need to discuss if we are to use it in general. To date, all authorisations have had time to end. And the purpose that this had been established was to ensure that the inspection of authorisations, certificates and authorisations is in place. We believe that with the provision of the register that will monitor and the expiry dates or validity of certificates, we will go to another logic that the public sector must operate, but also to the responsibility that the individual must have to submit and issue these certificates in good time. Therefore, the public service will and will inform the landlord who will be responsible, but will also do its job, i.e. monitor when these certificates expire. So far there have been these procedures, which, while I am going to say an example - the fire safety certificate has expired in a shorter period of time, because of the working time process, some have left it in the decades, in five years. And if it wasn't for public service control, it's all right. I think that is another logic that we should have in general. In the third chapter, we resolve chronic loose ends and delays in a number of technical and operational issues, with regard to fuel and energy service stations. The required technical specifications of their systems and facilities shall be upgraded. I'm not going to tell any detail about what systems. I mean, however, that this upgrade ensures the sustainable and secure operation of stations in general, and above all, we ensure that stations housed in mixed-use buildings, which were provided for by the law that existed until now. I believe that the provision of 2010 to close these stations in December 2017 - they said and representatives of operators, a thousand eight hundred fuel stations would close - shows the damage that was done, but that we could not have as a country reliable specifications in fuel stations, which they have now conquered and implemented countries outside the European Union and Balkan countries outside the European Union, apart from our own. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance for a while. We have two other issues. We are therefore exploiting the development of technology and allowing these stations to continue to operate and therefore the jobs that exist there very safely for the other tenants or those who work in these mixed-use buildings. At this point, I would like to thank both the associations and federations and the agents and the Petroleum Trade Association for the cooperation we have had and for their contribution to the draft law. In addition to these issues relating to the market and fuel infrastructure, we have Articles 28 and 29, where there was a lot of talk. Article 28 amends and specialises in the provision of Law4338/2016 concerning the prohibition on the movement of heavy goods vehicles weighing more than three and a half tonnes and not small public lorries, as some say. It's not a small public truck the three and a half tons truck or the truck. The amendment is necessary, since the experience gained from the implementation of the law, the comments made by the stakeholders and the will and the position of local societies now defines as a ban on crossing the network alongside motorways and 'fast traffic routes' - within introductory terms the word - and not just on the side of the network, which may give rise to confusion in its identification and implementation of the ban in practice in relation to the previous draft law. At this point, I would like to tell you that for decades neither the side network nor the alternative routes from the Ministry have been defined, nor the ranking of the road networks. Today this study is being prepared on the basis of this draft law, and the roadmap of administrative responsibilities is being drawn up, so that we all know which part of the road and which road belongs to the Ministry, who in the region, who in the municipality and in which municipality. I would like to say that the main objective of the provision is the security of citizens. Because I have heard a lot about the tolls, I want to answer, because criticism also has limits. For the year 2013 we had 12 thousand and fifty-four accidents. The eight hundred two were deadly. We had for these accidents fifteen thousand five hundred people. For the year 2014, we had eleven thousand sixty-seven six accidents. Seven hundred forty-four were deadly. The pathogens were fifteen thousand eighty - two. For the year 2015, we had eleven thousand five hundred seventeen accidents. Seven hundred forty-six were deadly. We had fourteen thousand seven hundred twenty - nine paths. That's all of the accidents. From these accidents on roads with tolls, that is to say on roads that we have specific specifications, although not completed, accidents refer to 9%. You remember what happened in the past on the highways! How much, then, does it cost both professionals and those who criticise this article, the blood of these people? How much does it cost? Secondly, you all know very well that we cannot separate the legislation that exists for tolls and for all the rest, for Greek vehicles too, for foreign vehicles, whether European or third countries, from European legislation. So we're not just talking about our own companies. We are talking about all transiting trucks from third countries, from all the ports of the country, from Europe to Asia in Egnatia, from the port of Patras to Corinth-Patras, from the ports of Lavrio and Piraeus to PATHE. I say this because some are playing very nationalists and, through their criticism, I would like to see what nationalism they are talking about at the audience they are addressing. In addition to this, the Ministry finances small parts of this network - because the rest are in the regions and municipalities - with about 20 million euros a year. If we count on what the regions and municipalities - which have no money - do not have - to maintain this section of the road network, you will all understand that many people are paying for heavy goods vehicles, heavy vehicles and machinery from this network, which must pass much smaller, in order to actually serve the people who go to work or elsewhere who do not have the opportunity to pay tolls. This is the aim and design that exists for the side network. I would like to inform you, because it is probably not possible for some Members to know that there are all the predictions that there are no injustices or obstacles to the work of transport companies. In other words, a transporter has been provided for, if he has in this network, forbidden to use a transport operation, by showing the consignment note to the institutions of the transport sector. It is planned for public and private projects, as long as they last, to have a special authorization from the Ministry. The agricultural machinery used by our farmers has been excluded. I do not really understand what the objective of criticism, instead of congratulations, is in this particular article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u75	Let's go to the end of your speech, Minister, or we'll be derailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're right. It has been criticised that the cost - it says - will be passed on to the consumer from these tolls. Are you sure the citizen doesn't pay those costs? Are you sure that most transport companies do not charge this toll cost, not only in domestic transport, and in international, producers and citizens ordering transport, and some put it in their pocket? If you're sure, really don't! Finally, with Article 29, we are bringing a genuinely progressive reform in the field of diplomacy engineers, overthrowing synergy logic, which has been afflicting the industry for years. We are establishing a single, modern and codified legislative framework, which has been a constant demand for new diplomats and young specialists - and I will explain why - in response to modern needs and our society and our country and our environment and our economy. To date, there were nine main specialities in the Chamber of Technical Chamber. Because of the colleagues, who came from abroad, who had not always had a full correspondence - they had an academic equivalency, but had no full equivalence - the Technical Chamber, with the existing system, has recognized a thousand seven hundred thirty-four specialties. The four of them, for decades now, have been 'produced' by polytechnic schools in our country. They are written in the Chamber of Technical Chambers, meet all the specifications set by the Seventh Session of the Committees and the TEI and are not basic specialities. And it was an element of real friction within the Technical Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u77	And finish, Minister, with this. Now with the TEI, with your colleagues, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. With this article, fortunately, we are changing the system that has existed for so many years. Unfortunately, the previous governments were setting up new departments, which did not care to ask either the Chamber of Technical Chambers or the professional bodies, nor did they see to it that they established a process like the one we are establishing today on how they will not be excluded from specific skills, namely professional fields, diplomacy engineers. I would say that what has been the case so far has been every specialty trying to eat the flesh of the other and to obtain an old-fashioned logic, additional professional rights without any scientific and professional documentation. We have thus managed to be the only country in the world, which has other standards and legislation on public works and private projects. To sum up, I believe that with this draft law we are trying to provide solutions and a sustainable operating framework both in the fuel market and in licensing and in road freight transport, and finally to streamline the professional rights of diplomat engineers. I would like to thank all the Parliament's wings for the very high acceptance, at least in principle, of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u79	Until the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Kefaliannis comes to Stepma, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, forty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st Korydallo School of Opportunities. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u80	Mr President, I would like to clarify one amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u81	Not now, Mr. Synchronous. I have given the floor to Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u82	Yes, but we have to say what we think of an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u83	Are you a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u84	What will he say I am a parliamentary representative? I don't understand you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u85	You'll get the floor later. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u86	I am not a parliamentary representative, I am a special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u88	Wait a minute, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u89	Look, the question of the amendment was raised by the Minister and raised in an agarbo and unorthodox way, because the amendment is unwritten. In other words, we are called upon to give our opinion on whether we accept the amendment or the debate on the amendment, once it is unsigned and we do not know who is signing it. You say that it is a parliamentary amendment. Tell us specifically. So should the amendment not be signed by specific Members? Also, some things have not been clarified for housing assistance. Here is a whole hypocrisy about housing aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u90	It's over. I don't have that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u91	Watch out. It is a wide range of natural and legal persons for housing assistance. Many are not given, while others are given. There is a selective treatment for housing assistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u92	Mr. Synhonaki, now you're speaking. You're not asking for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u93	I would of course ask for clarification on the matter of housing assistance. You also say at some point that they are not seeking, but that they are paid off net amounts or seized by insurance funds, public, credit institutions. What will he say 'not wanted'? Give us a clarification to understand and be able to take a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u94	Mr President, it is not a ministerial amendment to give clarification. It was an amendment to some Members. They asked me, if they testify, to accept it, as did Mr Syntagakis. I would like to ask the parliamentary representatives if they accept it, if there is broad acceptance, to accept it. This has not been done by the Bureau. So, there isn't. When he comes to a draft law, I'll give you everything you want to explain. It wasn't mine. So that is not really what this is all about. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u95	Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u96	Who isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u97	The amendment. But there is no amendment tabled. Well, ladies and gentlemen, since it is my first speech as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, I would also like to express the honour and great responsibility for taking up these duties. And of course, I would like to thank the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, for the great honour he has made to me by showing confidence in my face. I would also like to assure him and my colleagues that I will do my utmost to respond to this demanding task. I would also like to assure both the Bureau and my colleagues that I will contribute with all my powers so that parliamentary dialogue can take place with the necessary quality and decency that is appropriate to the institution of Parliament. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to try to put in the way I've always done, that is, with evidence, in-depth, responsible, without outsourcing and extremism. As far as this draft law is concerned, I think it offers a fruitful controversy over the development of alternative fuel infrastructures and, of course, simplifying the authorisation procedure for such infrastructures. The New Democracy, by our rapporteur, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, has taken a very constructive stand on this legislative initiative, where it was necessary, of course, to express its objections and concerns, for example, in Article 28 on the banning of heavy goods vehicles from the side road network or even Article 29 on the professional rights of engineers. As far as the Minister is concerned, I will repeat what the previous President, Mr Lambroulis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has said. At the moment there is no amendment to ask for our opinion. You quite rightly said that it is an amendment. In addition, our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis, has asked you a number of questions which, of course, must first be answered, that the amendment be tabled specifically with the signatures of the Members of the SYRIZA who are introducing this amendment and, of course, that of course, that we should put it. I am saying this because you have addressed the Members of Parliament to answer your question on the amendment. Of course you can't hear me, you're talking to Mr. Maniatis, but that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u98	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u99	As far as Parliament's handling of the draft law is concerned, I can say that from the government's point of view it was generally good. Unfortunately, however, I cannot say that there have been good manipulations by the Ministry of Infrastructure and you personally, in dealing with other issues. You referred earlier to the Greek, to a series of questions put by PASOK. You have given some answers, but I would say that a specific timetable should be given, because you know, very well, that we have been specifically placed in this Chamber, we are in favour of this initiative, this investment, because we think it is good for both the Greek economy and the Greek society, and in no case should there be any stumbling blocks from either side and there should be no oligopoly and no excuses, either in terms of government or, of course, in terms of a contractor. Now, a second issue which you also raised, Mr Minister, following intervention by our rapporteur, concerns the attitudes of work in urban transport. You know very well that for the past two weeks, workers in fixed transport have been undertaking repeated job stops in the means of fixed tracks, i.e. on the subway, on the tram and on the power train, which also involves passengers' suffering and financial costs for the company. In fact, once we get the 2016 SAC budget figures, we will see that one day of strike costs about 650,000 euros both for loss of revenue and for wage costs. If one does, and the simple division regarding the four-hour job stop, it costs about EUR 130,000 per day. And the problem we all know, it is not old, it is not something that we have not put in this Chamber many times too. It is, of course, the imminent change in the OSCE organisational chart and the fear of a share of workers in terms of changes both to the company's workforce and, of course, to collective agreements. And obviously, in order to continue working attitudes, the workers did not receive the assurances they wanted when they held the meeting in the previous days. To make it clear to you, Minister, we clearly agree with the reorganisation and restructuring of the OSCE and, in particular, of the SSH and OSH companies. In fact, as a government of the New Democracy, we served it, as was served by the previous government, which, of course, was driven by the SYRIZA Government. But instead of blaming others and workers as government, it is important to answer a number of questions. I would say that at this stage we do not know and we really would like you to tell us whether and when the operational Coordinating Committee provided for by Law 4337/2015 met to monitor and coordinate the reorganisation and restructuring of Athens' urban transport and, if so, what conclusion it has reached, on what report it may have reached. I also think that you should give us more clarification on your real intentions in relation to urban transport, both in terms of the structure and the future of workers, and how much more so when they have gone to the new superstate, which means that creditors now have the floor. But you spoke, Minister, and something else. You said that the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. I think you forgot that from this Chamber, as leader of the opposition officer in 2011, now Prime Minister Tsipras denounced the imminent increase in the ticket to 1.40, which we as government of New Democracy and PASOK reduced it to 1.20, while, on the contrary, you, as government, reinstated it to 1.40. Also, I would remind you that the results for the OSCE for 2015 were hand in hand compared to 2014. That's what happened at SYRIZA Government. However, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is also taking place in a very busy environment after the departure of the lenders' representatives and after the latest developments on our national issues. We have noted that the government's tactics to link the second assessment to debt regulation is a highly risky tactic. What they see is the light of publicity in the last few days on additional measures and the perhaps new fourth memorandum, which we heard from a portion of the lenders, I fear, unfortunately, are coming to verify this concern and give the Greek economy the graceful shot, and how much more so when the government, through its representative, is talking again about political negotiation and decision on the closure of the second assessment. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are keeping our cool because, unfortunately, the Greek citizens are well aware of what is happening and where we are driving every time the current government decides to negotiate politically. As far as our national issues are concerned, it was heard by Mrs SYRIZA's colleague, if I remember Mrs Kaftaris correctly, that a multi-dimensional foreign policy is being pursued. Here, unfortunately, the only multi-dimensional aspect in our foreign policy is the mistakes and oligopoly. Indeed, there are large-dimensional and small-dimensional errors. We had the opportunity to place ourselves on Friday last Friday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security with Mr Kotzias who, incidentally, came to the committee to inform us just one year after his last appearance in the committee. His latest appearance in the committee was November 23, 2015. The Minister was welcomed to come after just a year, to inform the committee, which was not the case, because he considered that all last year there were no facts and situations capable of getting him to come to committee. We have asked him a number of questions and concerns about both Greek-Turkish issues and Greek-Albanese issues. It has also been mentioned by a number of SYRIZA speakers that we have suddenly acquired energy policy for the first time. I would remind you that SYRIZA was all over the past few years opposed to the construction of the TAP and had even voted against this regulation when it had come to committee and plenary. Of course, we are happy to welcome him to realism and in fact. It has now become the largest proponent in the construction of a pipeline. More generally, however, there is a great concern on our part, on the part of the New Democracy, that our Parliamentary representative said so this morning, with regard to the Turkish President's continued statements on the revision of the Treaty of Lausanne. A concern, however, which is growing even more with the skin and the sloppyness of the government even these issues. We heard this unprecedented yesterday from the Government representative not even knowing the Turkish President's statement on the reformist tendencies he has for the Treaty of Lausanne, there is a broken phone between the Grand Maximos and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This, of course, is something you can understand, ladies and gentlemen, that our concern is also further increased. So at the time when the Turkish President states that the Treaty of Lausanne is not a sacred text, and we can therefore discuss it again, the Government's representative, as I said before, disputes the existence of this statement. He speaks of an unconfirmed post, while at the same time Mr. Tsipras has telephone contacts with the Turkish Prime Minister to plan a bilateral meeting for the Cyprus issue. The most worrying of all, however, is what came out today on the government-friendly website on tvxs.gr, which, as far as I know, belongs to the MEP of SYRIZA, Mr. Kologlou, who is really concerned with us, with what he is saying. In fact, the government must give a clear answer. We do not adopt this post. However, I will put it in the Minutes in order to obtain a response from the government. What does the post say? That Mr Kotzias, our country's Minister for Foreign Affairs, is the main responsible for the shipwreck of the Cyprus talks. We really do not care if this is an internal-party government game - within SYRIZA, namely - and if there is a difference between Mr Kotzia and the Prime Minister. We are interested, because it is a national issue. A website, which goes to SYRIZA, as I know - I think it cannot be denied - to the SYRIZA MEP Mr Kulloglu, in fact directly accuses the Foreign Minister of the country of this intervention. In fact, he points out that "The President Anastasiades had several telephone conversations with Alexis Tsipras, who travelled between what the Cypriot President had promoted and what his Minister for Foreign Affairs overturned. Thus, although Mr Tsipras agreed with Mr Anastasiades, he did not appear willing to harness his Minister.' These refer to this post, which I present to you, which was published this afternoon on this website. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are therefore waiting for an answer from the government. I hope to disprove the content of this website. Otherwise, it lures the country into very dangerous perverts. Even worse, all this coincides with the rejuvenation of provocativeness from the north-west border of the country. I, in my previous capacity as New Democracy's foreign minister, had long pointed out the unfortunate manipulations of the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Greek-Albanian relations and, unfortunately, were confirmed yesterday by the provocative statements made by the Albanian Prime Minister of Rama in his interview with SKAI, as well as by the previous provocative statements he made within and outside the Albanian Parliament. However, much more has been confirmed by the European Commission's report on Albania, on its accession path. The absence of even a slight reference to the Albanian side's provocative attitude on important issues, such as the announcement of claims of an inexistent chamile issue or the inadequate protection of the rights of the Greek national minority, I think it constitutes a diplomatic defeat for the government. We also warned from this step forward and, of course, through the committee that the innovative strategy of the Greek Government and of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, was extremely wrong. It turns out today that the official recording of the mechanism by the European Union by exchanging the non papers and by reintroducing an inexistent issue that I told you earlier, the chamile issue, and the corresponding statements made by Commissioner Han in response to these issues, unfortunately, did not simply allow the Albanian side to raise a number of issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u100	It is not the subject of today's debate, Mr Kefaloniann, and there is no Minister in fact who is responsible for answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u101	I shall conclude, Mr President. You know very well that the parliamentary representative can also refer to matters outside the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u102	All right, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u103	All these actions have created one of the conditions to decouple the progress of Greek-Albanian relations with Albania's progress towards the European Union. Unfortunately, the Greek Government is falling into more and more traps. For about two months now - and I conclude with this, Mr President - we have called for the National Foreign Policy Council and the relevant committee to be convened to take account of the new data and discuss all the latest worrying developments in our national affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u104	All right, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. Leave me a minute. Unfortunately, our national issues must be tackled with a seriousness, because we must not simply lead to situations where there will be spasm movements and a show on the part of the Foreign Minister in order to have a view for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u106	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u107	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u108	I don't know if I'm fat or if I've worn glasses. My hair is down. That's for sure. But I'm Christos Spirtzis. I'm not Nikos Kotzias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u109	I pointed it out, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u110	The second one - because the issues raised by Mr Kefaliannis - are serious - has lied to us because we are talking about multi-dimensional foreign policy. Mr. Kefaloyannis, the time when SYRIZA and the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, had come to the Samara government, that is, if the President of France, Mr. Holland, and all the leaders of the European countries of the south had visited the country, if the President of Russia, Mr. Putin, had visited the country by the President of the United States of America, Mr. Barack Obama, and what he said, the channels would have played and then the elections would have been lost and SYRIZA would have come out for about two years at the triumphant victory of Mr. Samara. These only show if it's multidimensional...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u111	All four channels?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u112	Everything. We're giving you all the channels! These visits only show whether it is multidimensional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u113	We have now turned the debate into a pre-dated foreign policy provision, Mr Kefaliannis. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Watching the confrontation of the speaker from the Step forward of the House and the position of the Minister, it seems that the confrontation that began this morning in the two parliamentary groups, the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, and indeed on national issues, where political games, at last, must be stopped. For we are discussing today a bill not in a sterile political environment, but in a charged political environment and explosives for our country. The issues raised for our country have been heard. Is there finally going to be a consultation? Is there going to be a national line? Will there be national agreement, at least, on national issues, when the Greek people are economically and socially exhausted today? This confrontation between the small two-partyism that continues to divide the Greek people, I think it should be over at some point. So far, we have had a controversy over the budgets, where parties have been created to get the government. We had a controversy over the budgets to make prime ministers. How many years should the crisis last so that we can continue to make just prime ministers? The Greek people are tired, so they need national understanding here and now. After all, in relation to the bill that we are debating today, the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has been placed, Mr Maniotis, and he said that we are positive and agree with the incorporation of the European directive. However, as we have also stressed in committee, we are debating this in Parliament today with fast track procedures, in the form of urgency, the incorporation of a directive, known as 2014. And we come running, after we arrived on the last day that we had to incorporate this directive, vote on the urgency procedure, a draft law which was found by technical and technological data, which, however simple it may appear as the transposition of the Community directive, cannot come to Parliament in this way. The idea of adapting and incorporating a European directive into Greek legislation must take into account the specificities, needs and programming in Greek reality. In order to do so, it takes an elementary time and the possibility of real exchanges of views and association. This has not been the case. The debate at European level on the need to use alternative forms of energy is not new. This debate has been taking place since 2011 with the strategic framework ‘Europe 2020’. So all this was known to us. As usual, however, the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict always runs to prevent developments. When two years ago he pulled the handbrake in the country's course to get out of the crisis, to get the government back then, he had to know that, taking over the government, this also means respect and continuity of the country's obligations. Because, gentlemen of the coup d'état, your other big problem, tragic for the country as it turns out, is that you are not ruling. You stopped the first time and instead of taking advantage of the progress and sacrifices that had been made by January 2015, you threw it all away in the bronto, and you have brought us the third and heavier memorial, and today we have the negotiations that we are seeing to pelagic, and we do not know where the country is now driving and whether we will continue other measures which are unbearable to the detriment of the Greek people. A small sample of your resignation from the country's rule is today's bill. You're running in time. I fear, however, that you have wasted valuable time over the past two years and as the late Florakis said: 'You will not precipitate', with what this means to the country, unfortunately. But the responsibility is yours because you experimented with lies and improbable things, but also why you are not actually ruling, as I said before. In relation to the bill, we said yes, we agree, they are in a positive direction. Our country has now become an energy hub, and with this draft law the conditions are set for developing infrastructures that can provide alternatives for both consumers and better prices, for greater protection of the environment, but also for job creation. In other words, the aim is to create infrastructure for the provision of alternative forms of energy to consumers with liquefied natural gas, compressed natural gas, hydrogen and electricity for charging electric cars. The country's obligations are to ensure that these power stations are developed, by making use of today's infrastructure, so that the consumer can have direct access, to promote the safety and operational regulations of these stations on the basis of experience from other European countries. A special reference should be made to two points: the simplification of licensing procedures by taking responsibility from the person submitting the dossier and avoiding time-consuming perceptions and the extension of the authorisation of stations operating on ground floors other uses under safety conditions. For the office and energy register, I would like to make the following point: why should another register be created, which will make the lives of agents very difficult, will run out of maintenance and all the other malicious things that the registers have in our country? I invite you to consider for the sake of simplification, economic and direct application and to incorporate it into GEMH by mere parametering, which is already written as business. Furthermore, for the provisions relating to the engineers referred to in Article 29, I would like to say that there is a need for overall regulation of all the specialities of engineers, namely the nine already institutionalised more than four young people, in order not only to address the three specialities. I would, however, like to ask, Mr Secretary, since he is not in the Chair, what is going on with the graduate engineers of the Institute of Technology? What is your intention for these forty thousand scientists of technological institutions and what is their professional assurance? Why have you not ensured that, with the professional qualification of thirteen specialists at the same time, we have here and your positions for the professional patenting of the engineers of the technical educational establishments? It's over 40 thousand in the country. You are thus undermining the profession of these scientists, such as, by extension, technological educational establishments. I shall now refer to Article 28 in relation to a ban on traffic of more than three and a half tonnes on side roads and alternatives to highways and highways. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm from Serres Law. Northern Greece is crossed from the Gardens to Igoumenitsa from the Egnatia Street. I can assure you that from Serres Prefecture to Thessaloniki more than two hundred kilometres, all the lanes from neighbouring Turkey and Bulgaria, which enter the country from the Prefecture of Evros, cross over two hundred fifty kilometres from the side roads and, indeed, at the expense of the residential and natural environment, when the sideway network from Kavala to and from the city of Thessaloniki is coastal, with increased tourist movement more than six months a year, as all south-east Europe on these coasts comes to quote, like residents of the Prefectures of Kavala, Serres, Dramas, Xanthi and Thessaloniki. On this road network, I inform you that you are weak, and it is dangerous to release, in addition to the deterioration of the area, a whole-a-day area which could be developed by tourists. I therefore believe that this directive is in the right direction. But, Minister, you brought this in May 2016. But you did not apply it, and in the summer we had major traffic accidents. I ask why you did not apply it when you could have implemented it. I hear here that there is a debate on transport. First of all, I am talking about foreign lorries primarily and, indeed, neighbouring Turkey, which all go through these side roads. However, when we talk about additional transport costs, did we ever think that increasing the price of oil is the main factor in increasing transport costs in our country, when again in October we have a new increase in oil, where both transport will be charged, and particularly agricultural production? Perhaps a discount invoice could be provided for tolls for lorries so that the use of these side roads is not made. We expect to hear the Minister's positions on this matter tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that, yes, the bill is in a positive direction, yes, we agreed as a Democratic Co-responsibility. However, we have serious doubts as to your scope for implementing the bills in practice, as to your will really to implement what the Greek Parliament is voting on directly and quickly. I believe that in this bill you will do what must not be another bill, which will be changed again in the course, as you have done with this article 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u115	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u116	Mr. Karastasis has the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u117	Mr President, I would not have intervened if, in the first maiden presence of Mr Kefaloyannis as a parliamentary representative in a bill, he actually had the agreement of almost all the parties, he did not use the Stepma to deal with national issues. It is an issue which is raised at a difficult time in which our country is in the process of negotiating. So it is trying, through the publications made or the information, which are heard about Chamicos, the issue of such a difficult negotiation for the Cyprus issue, to create impressions which, in fact, raise critical questions, regarding the New Democracy's position on all these issues. In other words, at a time of crisis, does the New Democracy rejoice by going badly on all these negotiations? It is impressive - and I think it is annoying for every democratic person - to try to use all these issues for their own benefit and for impressive purposes. For example, we are at a time when we expect as a country on 5 December in Eurogroup to have completed the second assessment, to have decisions on debt and from there on, and beyond, to have decisions on quantitative relaxation through the European Central Bank, which is very important. I cannot understand whether the New Democracy, as Mr Mitsotakis' statements show, wants us to fail in these negotiations so that if he becomes Prime Minister at some point Mr Mitsotakis returns with a fourth memorandum. I'm so sorry about that. I think the country in the last year is coming out of this isolation, in which it was from 2010 to 2014. Visits have been made here, as the Minister said, for example by Mr Obama, who has indeed embraced and adopted all the positions of the Greek Government. Also, on the refugee issue, on which the New Democracy so denounces us, Pope Francis was here. We also had the visit of Putin, the visit of Olad and the Euro-Mediterranean Conference, which took place a week before the opening of the Thessaloniki Fair, where, indeed, all the Mediterranean countries realised that the great problem in our country is the issue of austerity. I therefore appreciate, as we will say tomorrow, that the New Democracy should be much more careful at a very critical time for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u118	Thank you, too. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction "The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of the Act. Regulation (EC) No 3369/2016, inconsistent and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’. As the list of speakers has been exhausted, the debate on the principle of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport’s draft law is hereby finalised: ‘Incorporation into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures, simplification of procedure, authorisation and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u121	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u127	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Incorporation into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure, simplification of procedure, authorisation and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations, and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S2-commons.u128	With the consent of the House at 20.55' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 24 November 2016 at 09.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work: follow-up discussion and vote on articles, amendments and all the provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Incorporation into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuels infrastructures, simplification of procedures, authorisations and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions", in accordance with the agenda distributed.
