ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] There is no other sitting this week, because of the three-day celebration. I think we can finish this soon today. Before we enter the legislative process, I would like to make two announcements. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue". The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Steering of the NATO Mixed Rule on Electronic War [Joint Electronic Warfare Core Staff (JEWCS)] in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of America, the Minister of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations and the Armed Force of the Republic of Armed Forces of the Republic of the European Union". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. Two are those parties which in committee objected to the ratification of this agreement, the Communist Party of Greece and the Golden Dawn, whose representatives will take the floor in the parliamentary order. Secondly, an amendment from the Ministry of National Defence has been tabled on this amendment, where, if they so wish, the rapporteurs-general, special speakers and parliamentary representatives from all parties have been given the floor for five minutes. Two amendments have also been tabled by colleagues, who - as I read them - I believe they are wrong by those colleagues who have tabled them today. One is an amendment which talks about financial support for students who are poor. Firstly, there is no report from the General Accountancy Office and, secondly, it is not the Minister here to answer, because I think it is not a question of Mr Vitsa. The other amendment concerns VDUs of certain tomato producers in the Boeotia Prefecture. Because on Tuesday we have legislative work, I would suggest something to you, Minister. Because you typically have to say whether you accept them or not, I think you should not accept them and colleagues resent them and come right on Tuesday, so that we can be done more quickly today. I think they can be more widely accepted. Therefore, once we have finished the ratification that Mr. Kouzilos, Mrs. Kanelli and the Minister, saying, that is,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u2	I can talk about both of them together and make time savings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u3	This can be done, Mrs. Canelley. And for Mr. Kuzelo, the same applies to him. If you want to put yourself on the amendment, Mr Kuzelle, instead of five minutes - in addition to the parliamentary representative, I also speak as a speaker if you wish to be on the amendment - your time, you and Mrs Canelley can be summed up, and you will not be speaking again, of course, afterwards. Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u4	How much time do we take?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u5	Five minutes is for everyone. Since today is not difficult, however, there can be a relative tolerance. Does the House agree with the process of holding the debate as I described it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u6	We agree, then, with the procedure. We are starting with Mr Kouzilo, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Pappa, your special speaker must first speak as a controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I am in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and I have undertaken to speak on one and the other. Because we have a parliamentary group where our Chief, Mr. Michaloliacos, will be speaking in a little while...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u10	So, by way of derogation from the order, you're asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u11	We will go two to one, Mr President, because we have other obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u12	Therefore, you are taking your time as a Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u13	Leave the procedure, as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u14	You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u15	I wonder why today Mr. Vitsats came and Mr. Kammenos was not here for the debate in the committee. And why am I saying it? Welcome, Mr. Vitsa, but some questions were raised to Mr. Kammenos in committee by my colleague, competitor Nikos Kuzilos, and he did not answer. And what are these questions? But before I put it myself - and I will be waiting for an answer from the Minister - I would like to say the position of the Golden Dawn. We are firmly against NATO, I would say, the unwilling NATO, which has been involved in the betrayal of Cyprus, NATO that does not protect the Greek seas, but for the sake of decisions by the current government has stepped on the right foot in our Aegean Sea, NATO, which acts as a defender of Turkey's interests. In fact, Mr Vitsa, you did not answer me to the committee for another time I had told you in private. We have an army and you bring bills here to protect, supposedly, the country from an enemy, primarily an important enemy of the country, which is Turkey. For your Ministry, the Ministry of Defence, I want you to tell me the Army is for Turkey, i.e. Turkey is a threat, or is it an allied country and an allied country in NATO and I would say that it is the country in which you say that the Aegean is a sea of coexistence or the Aegean has no borders, as the Prime Minister said? So if Turkey... Please, gentlemen of the New Democracy! You've got to have a lawsuit. Mr. Teddy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u16	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u17	I'm talking, please too. It's not a coffee shop here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u18	When did you realize that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u19	Keep going, Mr. Pappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u20	Do this to Corfu, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u21	And you in the Jannahs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u22	You're laughing, huh? Sit forward, because you too are one of the governments of post-war, which gave land and water, you are a government of the republic and defenders of American and naval interests. Who? The urban right, the stupid right of the New Democracy. So don't talk. So I asked you this question, Mr Vitsa, and I would like you to give an honest answer: are the Turks our friends or is they a threat? If they are our friends, why all these amendments, all these sanctions, all that money we spend on the Greek Army? We believe that the Army really must defend the borders and not watch every NATO and every alliance. The questions put by Mr. Kouzilos were "what is our position, the position of Greece in NATO?", which is about what we do in the region, all that we do, the bonding of Greece even more with the Western powers, with the loan sharks, that is, with the European Union and the United States. I say this in the light of the Obama visit to Greece. Where? In Greece, on the left, in Greece, which once called 'EEC and NATO the same union', the EEC, i.e. the European Union. Hey, no! We in this right slogan of the time - apart from right-wing, left-wing politicians and all these labels that you put to politics, are above and above the right and left - 'EEC and NATO the same union', we are still defending it. You've forgotten. You're supposed to have talks with Putin's Russia, that you're asking for help, while the revelations from WikiLeaks come, the revelations come from Putin himself that the Prime Minister never asked for help from the Russian Federation. And the other, the Minister of National Defence, your colleague, sells us fumara, tells us about kalashnikov factories in Patras and mocks the Greek people. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, speaking of the new Greek, what the world is talking about to understand us, and not these - the Greek governments of the memorandum have become Ankara's yokes. How do we do it? So, we're negative, and we're negative, we're with this wicked thing you've done at the Department of Defense. In the Ministerial Amendment, you are analyzing the articles in the explanatory statement. Is that right, Minister? See how many pages. I am very pleased that you have taken some of our proposals and ideas from the committee and incorporated them into the amendment, some of the proposals of the Golden Dawn. You did, however, make the evil at the end say "The Greek state, honoring the memory of the fallen on the altar of the national duty during the liberation struggle of Cyprus Hellenism against the English occupation, Gregory Amerentiou of Pierre...". The agonist, the hero of modern Hellenism, Zidros, Axentiou, the instigator of the Greek Army. You say, therefore, that you promote him after death to the extent of the lieutenant. Why did you put this in armaments, in navals? In all this, you also put the Amerentius! Is there an anniversary urgent? Is it ash in the eyes for your right audience?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u23	Finish it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u24	I have five minutes for the amendment, Mr President, please. Five minutes for one and five minutes for the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u25	You don't have five minutes. Mr. Pappa, the Rules of Procedure I know him better than you do. You've got five minutes in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u26	Altogether? Is that what they told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u27	Altogether. Don't read articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u28	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u29	So I'm holding another minute for you to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u30	I call on you to bring this into a separate vote and to make a legislative improvement now. In the last paragraph 12 of the amendment, as far as Azsenios is concerned, to bring it in a separate amendment, to vote on it - I have a little doubt about a political area - by the Greek Parliament. Get that part back, Minister. We, with all that is present in this amendment, if you do not take it back - knowing that we really honor the Amerentiou, because we are the genuine Greek national resistance, the powers of the nationalists of the Golden Dawn - because you have the whole amendment we will have to say 'they'. Okay, Mr. President, with your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u31	Okay, I left you three more minutes. Mr Kouzilos from Golden Dawn has the floor as an apology for the contract for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are discussing today the ratification of the memorandum of understanding on the organisation, management, security, financing and staffing of NATO's mixed step for the electronic war. But here we also have a question that Mr Kammens did not answer to the committee. That is, for example, coming down from Dardanelli a Russian warship. Will an electronic war aircraft take off from Thessaloniki? Isn't that a direct threat to Russia? Isn't that a bit of a stone yet in the cold war between NATO and Russia? The long position of the Golden Dawn is the geopolitical shift towards Russia, a change of doctrine. In general, the questions we have put and have not even received answers are: What is NATO's position on Cyprus? What is NATO's position on the Aegean? What is the position of NATO on Turkey's casus belli? Is this an ally country? And it is not enough what we are saying at the moment, but you also bring our "friends" to the Albanians by boat into the Aegean Sea. What should they supervise? What can they do? To close, I would remind you of Lavrov's statement about a week ago, who said that 'the rotten geopolitical practices of the West have thus made the Middle East'. Don't look at this in the Aegean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u33	Me too, Mr. Kouzeli. Therefore, Mr Pappas, with regard to the vote on the convention remains the 'no' you said and if the latter does not leave the last part in the Ministerial Amendment, your vote on this amendment will remain'residence'. If he leaves, what will you vote on in the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u34	'Paris'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u35	Again 'Paris'. Mrs. Canelley has the floor. I give you two years to put you both on the amendment and on the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u36	I'm not gonna need that much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u37	All right, I'm putting you the minutes you're entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much. We have just witnessed this theater of irrationality, of using the Step of the House, to spend even very long moments in a prank phase. Now we're on the eve of October 28th. I mean, a little patriotic modesty. You know, the JRC is not afraid of the word'stadium' and it does not mainly give it to owners like those who just came from here, who took their national resistance and 'EEC and NATO the same union'. Soon I don't know what else they'll get, but in a way, he's becoming almost deceptive to the operation in here. He did the President of the House too! You left him. Our tolerance to many and the exploitation of a kindness and dignity in the dialectic process here seems to me to be beginning to cause us problems. I'll actually stay. We will say 'no' in this memorandum, the ratification of the memorandum of understanding on the organisation, management, security, financing and staffing of NATO's mixed step for the electronic war. Someone who listens to us, Mr President, will think of something very important and wonder why we should say 'no' to something NATO wants to help us, defend ourselves in electronic war? What electronic war? Let's see. First of all, not all NATO countries that are involved. It's only nine. Secondly, it poses dangers to itself if you think it is typically operating as a headquarters, but it is not embedded in NATO's structure. In fact, it is a commercialised process from these nine countries. It leads to an involvement, which does not seem insidiously, because we are talking about an electronic war. We have to clarify this, it has nothing to do with drones, it has nothing to do with this, but it has to do with it, because the electronic war also includes such bases and procedures. We know they've opened conversations. It involves the country and the members of the Armed Forces increasingly deeper and deeper in defending foreigners here and above all our national interests. This thing with NATO is not happening! We see what the consequences of NATO in the Aegean and its presence are. I had asked the Minister - could you answer us? - if we have ever had a horrific outbreak of the violations, if we have night overcrowding - as we read and hear - if they occur in the context of the teeth of the Sultanoid dragon, shown by our ally in NATO Turkey, by extortion "another length of the Aegean". I'm not going to other things. I do not want to refer to the recent statements by Erdogan. They're not offered in here for analysis. In any case, our position is clear. The expenses will only be 100,000. At this stage. It's the least. Let's actually go. Are you, on the left government, growing deeper and deeper in the Natali process? What good are you going to see from these slaughterers? What have we seen so far? What did we see? You brought them to the Aegean for the refugee. It is a wolf alliance with which you, too, agree in full cooperation and continuity with the previous governments, and in the exchange of professional and warfare and conscious and national patriotic attitudes of Greek officers who enter the new procedures under these conventions. I would add one example: you say 'The e-War step will operate at a regular operational strategic level'. That's both in the battlefield and far away. Because it is electronic war, it does not mean that we will not have the essence and the political choice of participating in attacks, possibly from a distance, through the electronic war. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We've seen it how defensive NATO is. We've seen it spread. We have seen it where there is a wealthy source of humanity, and then NATO appears to lag what is left and has not been left to lay the foundations of democratisation. We've seen partnerships. And the area is in danger of a felony even where naval and other forces played games. Go and ask what the Egyptian people have benefited from the EOZs and from them and when they are said today to be missing sugar in Egypt. The sugar! I say this in order for people to realise that all these investments, as the defences have said, result in the people becoming increasingly marginalised, Mr President. I asked a question, which was crucial and was not answered by the Minister: what will the national limits be, as provided for in the agreement, which one might put into the way in which this agreement operates? What are our limits? What's the line? Who's gonna put it? When's he gonna put it? Under what circumstances? What are these? He didn't answer. So we're out of line. We are in an agreement in which we appear to be members of the most modern Star Wars PlayStation e-war. It is not true, however, that we have nothing to benefit from. On the contrary, we are getting deeper and deeper into a situation. In other words, I would like to explain something to you, so that the world can understand it once again: we are here to ratify something that works and is implemented since 2013. A Member can't feel a little fool around here. You come and you are now asking us to say yes or no to something that already works and is being implemented and for which you are already spending money. Let's go legitimize something that already works. And I asked, what were we saved from today? What was the major attack on us on an electronic level and saved NATO? And who's going to make the electronic attack at the level of geostrategic interests of the region, which is not, however, a naval ally? Who? After you have made sure that we belong only to NATO, that we are only interested in the decency of our signature. We are voting against it. It doesn't make any sense. And we warn, I call, that you realise that the continuation of this policy cannot differentiate you from the previous ones, once again, an agreement that has clear - although it does not seem - commercial characteristics. We will sell e-war payroll services to the nine countries, until the rest are in, to build the appropriate headquarters. With the proper headquarters - we had called for 113 Battle Wings, because it would bring us, it has not been done so far - we will also put a base for drones here and there one further. To close, bring in a mini-chasing, during the old-time tactic. I have sixteen - seventeen years in here, I am tired of seeing it with any government, with any minister. You brought settlements, an amendment with 12 packages. A little setup here, a little setup there. We're not even able to control. Let me tell you. If this came as a bill, we could have a conversation. You bring twelve neat things. It looks moral and good by definition. It's not checked. One cannot be differentiated because they are twelve articles in an amendment and under the Rules of Procedure only 'yes' or 'no' I can say, Mr President. May I tell you that I will say "no" to the Azsenios? "Yes" and with four now. There's no way. It should have happened long ago. Hero of the anti-colonial struggle at a time when everyone is talking about colony. You said it when you were opposition, now we're suddenly free. You said it was an occupation, that it was it, that it was it. We were suddenly released. We remembered the Azzentiou, too. It is suspected that we remembered him now that a'resolution' is imminent. The Cyprus issue is open. We have no deeper information about developments in this area, neither as a committee nor as anything. We look, we find, we understand, we see dangers, we see things. We have now remembered to bring the Azeri's vindication to level after the Annan plan, then. We'll tell you 'yes'. Can I tell you, for example, 'no' when you want to replace a member of a committee? But of course I will say 'yes'. In all other things, I will say'represents'. In other words, as a whole, I say'represent' for the very simple reason that it is not a procedure. It has details that I wish I could discuss them, for example, such as the question of radionavigations, because you are actually approving that they should only go through and join the specialty of technical support and not in general. You'd have some answers to give me. Can we talk about them? Oh, no. Can we extract positively and negatively? Oh, no. Are these arrangements consistent with what? With military operation, with organisation, with Armed Forces such that every three and one of them will come an amendment, a contract that has been in operation for three to five years, and then an amendment that settles an issue here, one issue, a transfer beyond, something else and all that helps to make us feel that everything is going well. The hallucinations are long over. I think it is a good thing when you can say'residents', to save the pretexts, because perhaps someone could have been wronged, if you said whole-strong and carabine 'no', as we wanted to say in such procedures and in such succinct amendments, for which tomorrow morning someone might be accused of struggling with it, so he did and be morally perforated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u39	Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer the question of ratification. I would like you to speak very much on the amendment from the Ministry of National Defence after the parliamentary representatives and speakers have been placed, if they so wish. I would like you to say, however, about the two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u40	Allow me to say about everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u41	I'll give you ten minutes for everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u42	They won't need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u43	Aren't we going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u44	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u45	Immediately after. To present it and its amendment, and then the speakers and the parliamentary representatives will speak of what they want, both of them. Please do not forget for both Members whether you are acceptable or not. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u46	First of all, I would like to say that I watched distances, electronically, yesterday - if I am not mistaken - a debate on ratification and I think this debate was an extensive one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u47	It wasn't yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u48	Previous year. I'm sorry, it was October 20th. You're right. I followed her on her second transmission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u49	You saw her on tape from the Parliament's channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u50	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u51	For the record, you're talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u52	So just for the Minutes, I will say a few words: we have a memorandum of understanding that was set for signature on July 26, 2013. Greece signed it on 26 August of the same year. We have thirteen members, who contribute, and the Europe's Supreme Allied Forces General and the Headquarters of the Allied Command of Transformation. That's the whole thing. The annual budget refers to the electronic war and not to cyberwar, not to cyberwar. The budget includes NATO at a rate of 50%. Greece participates at a rate of 5.6%, a total amount of between EUR 80,000 and EUR 100,000. Our assessment is that it will also bring positive results to the Greek Armed Forces, as well as to the country. Because in the Armed Forces on the one hand it increases its operational capabilities and on the other hand, speaking financially, the cost is too small. We have high-cost maintenance of the reception facilities in Greece, since we are discussing the maintenance of facilities at 113 Moura. And of course, in taking up this mixed scale, Greek companies can and will participate, and we also have the profit from the fact that more than a hundred officials from other states will be left in our country. That is the issue. The second question concerns a question that has been raised. But here, we must also make it clear: because a political force asks some questions, in the way it puts them, does not mean you have to answer them. Let's get these things straight. And if a political force comes and puts the most unlikely question in this House, it doesn't mean that you're obligated - and all right with your position and dignity - to answer that question. Let us be clear. So it is not that there is no answer, but sometimes the answer to the general policy is given - it would be said - both in Parliament and in the social sphere and on the road. To be clear and in terms of values and ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u53	If you respond to fascists, you must have heard of them. So let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u54	The question I want to answer, and with a word I will answer it, is a relatively difficult question. Can a country be in an alliance and, at the same time, develop relations with other countries that are out of alliance and at the same time put like a crown of its efforts and be outright in its national sovereign rights? My answer is yes. However, this is a matter of policy. The second issue - to make it clear why this was said - the Armed Forces under the political leadership and on the basis of its directions - have as their first task the preservation of the country's sovereign rights and integrity. This is an answer in all directions. I will have the opportunity in an hour, in a greeting I will address for the resistance of the Cretans during the Nazi occupation, to speak more thoroughly. I am simply taking this opportunity to tell you that there will be such an event in the framework of the celebration of October 28 and the liberation of Athens on the seventh afternoon. So that's our logic. So, in that sense, we are intervening. That's the point. Anyone can judge it in their own way, their differential, viewing politics and the universal one at a different glance, can see it in the same way for too many years. One is that. Secondly, as far as the amendment is concerned, I would not be particularly opposed to Mrs Canelles, in that it is more practicable, since we have just voted for a law, and so this is what this is about. In the process of implementing this law, that is when we went to implement this law, we saw some elements that should change. What do I mean? Make them more specific. If you notice that, in the twelve of the thirteenth articles, it is simply the corresponding article that is more specific to enable it to function, so that it cannot create any doubts and doubts, so that certain issues do not get involved in the scratches of bureaucracy. We're doing this, and that's why I'm bringing it. There's nothing new, nothing different. As far as Gregory Amerentiou is concerned, we are starting with this legislation, but how can one say so? - it will not only be with the vote on this legislation. It's going to take place at a special event, with everything given to the Army and that way. We are therefore saying that we should do this now and in a short time to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u55	As an honor, let's get out of setup.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u56	On the other hand, it has nothing to do with the necessary debate and the debate we are going to be having. On the issue of the Cyprus issue, which is at a very critical stage, the Greek Government's position is clear. The issue of the Cyprus issue can only be resolved under the reasonable and the decisions of the UN and away from the guarantee procedures, which bring back various issues and we know how they have worked in previous years. As far as the two amendments are concerned, I made a consultation with the Ministry of Education. The amendment tabled relates to the financial support of undergraduate students.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u57	Are you accepting them or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u58	That is what I want to do, because this process has already begun and it will help them. That's the main reason why I'm accepting it. Furthermore, it does not create any additional costs in the state budget for the simple reason that it is from the ESDP programme. Maybe you didn't see me, but as long as we were here my associates...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u59	A week ago we had a bill from the Ministry of Education. Why didn't the Minister have it in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I accept criticism. I now represent the government and this critical point I accept in one sense. With regard to the second amendment, which is also specific, I would ask Mr Thebes - and in this sense I do not accept it - on Tuesday to re-submit it. This week there will be no administrative court and no financial service, so it will not be urgent. Furthermore, I, as a Member of Parliament, will put my signature on the next re-entrustment because, in my opinion - and I must say that - the request is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u61	So you accepted them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u62	The amendment for students was accepted, and the next one will be coming in another bill next week. In other words, for you to know, the amendment was accepted under a general number of 731 and a special number of 59 of the colleagues from SYRIZA, namely Mrs Vaki, Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari, Mr Kara Yusuf and other colleagues. The two rapporteurs, Mrs Eleni Stamatakis and Mr Konstantinos Tasulas, will speak on the amendment. If Mrs. Vaki wants to close this conversation, I'll leave her lately. Mrs. Vaki, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u64	Would you like to close the debate after the other parliamentary representatives speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u65	If I see what I need.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u66	Otherwise, Mrs Vakis and Mr Dendias will speak, and then we will go to the two special speakers, Mr Constantinople and Mr Lykoudi, since Mr Kouzilos and Mrs Kanelli have spoken. Mr Loverdos and Mr Pafilis will then be speaking and we shall end with the other two speakers and the other two parliamentary representatives. In order not to speak, that is to say, only the special speaker or only the parliamentary representatives, I take it every two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u67	In the case of the amendment adopted by the Minister, we must also be able to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u68	Yeah, at the end. After all, after he accepted it, all parties will be asked, Mrs. Canelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u69	We have some questions for the amendment. Who's gonna answer us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u70	Obviously, after he contacted the Ministry of Education, Mr. Vitsats will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Vitsa, do you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Constantinople, first of all, I didn't give you the floor. Secondly, when the time comes for that amendment, here will be Mr Vitsats and you will ask him then. Don't leave the line we've got. Mrs. Helen Stamatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I am replacing Mrs. Tyloridou. I just wanted to say that following the debate which took place in the committee responsible and the clarifications given today by the Minister responsible, I think we should proceed with ratification of the agreement. We, at least, accept the amendment as it has come and as has been explained by the Minister and registered by the rapporteurs. So we are positive about the amendment and vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u74	And it is true that you are also voting on the parliamentary amendment. So I don't want to ask you again. Thank you very much for the brief. Mr Tasoula, you have five minutes to place yourself on the amendment, primarily, of the Ministry of National Defence, and of course, if you like, to the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u75	We put the committee at the meeting for the contract. We said that we agree with Greece's participation in NATO's Mixed Electronic War Climb, because, despite the various things that are said and heard, we believe that NATO's participation in NATO since 1952 has been beneficial and has been repeatedly approved by the Greek people. It is not just a choice of government, but it is a key, historical choice, such as Greece's participation in Europe, which has been approved by the Greek people as well. Now, the amendment is extensive. It shall include in an Article 12 paragraphs. He has last, as he does not show, the aftermath of the death promotion of the hero Gregory Azesentiou, the chief of the Griva, who is marked to come alive by the English and is buried today in the Keeped Messages. So he has his postmortem promotion - rightly so - to a lieutenant. However, the self-evident acceptance of this promotion, which is retarded - and that also contains self-criticism, of course - cannot distance us from placing us in other paragraphs of this article, which we are negative. We have this method to legislate by putting in an article provisions that are unambiguously positive and so, in a way, we capture the vote. At least for the Minutes, Mr President, we have to formulate the paragraphs with which we are negative. In paragraph 1, therefore, we are negative, as a New Democracy, for the possibility of transposing radionavigators, because we believe it is absolutely essential that radionavigators remain in their duties, whether in the flying dimension or on the ground. They do not have an excess of radionavigations from both their obligations to transfer them to other bodies. So in paragraph 1 we are negative. In paragraph 4, where there are arrangements for officers from senior military schools, we are also negative because the principle of equality and equal treatment is not respected here. The exceptions are those which have been classified since 1990 from the treatment reserved to the rest. So it's not something that works in a balance for everyone, and that's why we're negative. In paragraph 6, as regards the Committee set up, which is composed of this year and an official of the Department of Economic Care and others, a representative of military justice is absent. In other words, there is a continuing - and other behaviours - refusal to recognise and charge the Ministry of Military Justice with responsibilities. And that is why we are negative because of this omission in paragraph 6. There is also paragraph 7, which we are also negative, because it concerns amendments to Law 324/1976. It's about special monastic officers on Army Air Force. These amendments once again abolish the principles of equality and justice. It's charming. We were replaced by the same provisions of Law 4407/2016. So we can only be negative on that. Therefore, from the twelve paragraphs of this provision, we are negative to the four that I have foretold and positive to the rest, I have, of course, pre-empted the postmortem advancement of the Azantium.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u76	However, because I cannot do this at the end at the end because of the paragraph on the postmortem promotion of the Azsenio, what does the New Democracy vote on the amendment as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u77	In the amendments we are voting 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u78	For the reasons you have explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u79	However, in the four paragraphs which I have pointed out and which are contained in the article, we are negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u80	Yes, for the record, this is because it cannot be done in substance. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates thirty students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 17th Patras High School (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let's go to the two parliamentary representatives. Mrs Vakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u81	I won't need five minutes. We accept the amendments and the justification given by the Deputy Minister. If you will allow me time, to support and defend the parliamentary amendment, which I too have signed and which concerns education. In accordance with this amendment, a regulation on the regulation of the IKY scholarships is being re-established, with the aim of strengthening unsuccessful undergraduate students. The performance, of course, and also economic criteria will also be taken into account and there was no need for a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, since it is not ministerial because the amendment, but parliamentary and, secondly, because the money has already been committed by the NRP. Just this money will be managed by the IKY, based on certain criteria, to strengthen students with low income criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. It's just for the Minutes because it's from the ESDP there's no need for a report. Otherwise if it were from the state budget, if it were also from Members, the amendment would certainly have needed a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u83	Is it from an ESRB?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u84	Is it from the 2014 ESRB?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u85	The Minister said so. Mr. Constantinople, you will take the floor and ask. Minister, please don't respond. Mr Nicholas Georgios Dendias has the floor for five minutes on the amendment and, of course, on the contract if he wants to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u86	I shall confine myself to the amendment, Mr President. As first of all, our rapporteur, Mr Tassoulos, Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, has clearly stated, we have voted in favour of this amendment. But, Minister, I want to be honest with you. We voted for it by blackmail in memory of the Gregory Aznent. In other circumstances, I would tell you that this amendment is late, it is out of the substance of the text under discussion, depriving Members of the possibility of being placed, it is clear. Normally, the Ministry and the Government should itself ask for a list of speakers to be opened. You are bringing an amendment that has eighteen articles in fact in it. If I may tell you, with all due respect for the Ministry of Defence, we are always very careful with this ministry, it is actually an amendment to Law 4407/2016, which, as you said, was voted on in July. Now if two months after a piece of legislation has been passed, eighteen pages of amendment, is there another clearer confession of the legislation's dubiousness? To be informed. If it is a matter of a minor, three-dimensional, regional nature, to say that in any case, at the pressure that the government has received, it has not been able to pay attention. Is it possible for the Department of Defense that these things happen, that we have an eighteen-page amendment? These are not things that comfort us, the National Representation, which I say again we would like and want and we show that we want the support of the Ministry and the Armed Forces and the Greek society. How is it so hard to legislate here? Eighteen pages of corrections - if possible! - and call that an amendment? In any case, we would appreciate that, although we say that we will vote for it, you would bring the honour of Gregory America separately, so that the National Representation can be represented unanimously - I hope, with the exception of not unanimously, in order to be honest. A section does not commemorate the memory of the Gregory Azantium - to vote positively. Assidio was a friend of my father's. If I remember correctly, he was together at the School of Adolescents in Syros and I remember him a small picture of the officer's uniform at home. We now come to complain about the way in which the honor is introduced into the National Representation. In any case, I would like to ask: should this matter be done by means of a written amendment? Couldn't he, in a festive way, be imported? Do you want, Minister, as a separate piece of legislation? As an independent piece of legislation, and we with you, beside you. In any case, I think that, as in all this, the government is even making it a good thing, and in fact it is doing so, that it cancels them and tramples them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak for a minute on issues relating to Turkey. Minister, we have witnessed an extraordinary Turkish provocative. We are neither going to raise tons nor start drum-crossing nor call on weapons. But the government must explain to us why this Turkish aggression is suddenly and what the Greek Government is doing to deal with this aggression. Because, as we say, the President of the neighbouring country suddenly shows up and disputes the Treaty of Losan, neither is it normal nor something that we can not observe. We want to know that the Greek Government is doing everything it takes to defend the national area and national rights. Of course, the last thing we expect in this Chamber is that they should appear as patrons and as protectors of national interests, who, if they were alive on 28 October 1940, would not serve national interests under the blue-white, but would serve under the red flags with the bark cross. After all, their party, which is currently not in the Chamber of Parliament, if I am well reminded and have proof on them, was recruited under the swastika, under the chast cross. When someone from this political area speaks, I would ask him - and I would ask him here - not to define himself as a nationalist but as a nationalist, namely a nazi, in the current view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u87	Minister, hold whatever remarks you want, and at the end I will give you the floor again for five minutes to answer everything you want. Now we move on to Mr. Constantinople and Mr. Lykoudis, and immediately thereafter Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Pafilis will be speaking. There are three other special speakers left, and then three other parliamentarians will be closed down and the Minister will be closed down. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u88	To begin with from the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members, who, as stated in the explanatory statement, seeks to provide financial support for the undergraduate students of SYRIZA. T.I.E.L.D.? I ask you, Minister. Students poor of TEIs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u89	You're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u90	I ask, and I address the Minister. Minister, because you took responsibility and said 'yes' to the amendment, I tell you that as it is written, it is as if there were no, as you usually do, with this arrangement that there are no poor and awkward students of the TEIs. If they don't exist, tell us. Otherwise, he needs a change. Secondly, I heard something that I would ask you to confirm, because the IKY has a certain amount. At the same time - and I would like you to assure us about this because it concerns postgraduate students - I understand from what you say that the money for postgraduate students will not be taken care of. You told me - and I would like you to assure us about this - that the government has provided additional money from the 2014-2020 programme, which will go to the most deprived, or will the money already in existence with the NRP be a common money bank and what proportion will they go to? Of course, Minister, it would be very important for the Ministry to come and tell us the rules with which all this will be done, by what procedures, to which procedures, how transparency and dignity will be guaranteed in all of this. I am not saying that it will not happen, but we thought it could be someone from the Ministry, since the government knew that this amendment would be tabled. You knew, you had spoken to your Members, I'm sure, and someone should have been here to answer these issues. But I would ask you to clarify this because it is possible that a large group of people and students will be excluded from this whole process. That is what this amendment is all about. With regard to Article 13a, you have rightly changed the provision, because the previous transferees received the specialisation of the 'informatics research'. The amendment you have made and deleted the phrase 'previous clergymen' is correct and understandable. As far as the committee consisting of a judicial officer of the civil courts is concerned, or a senior officer, I would like to ask you this: Can the judicial officer of the civil courts be replaced with an official this year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u91	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u92	I think that the correction you made two months ago was a sloppy one, since it was made by Law 4407 and by the rush. Now for active officers from senior military schools and the category of permanent volunteers under Law 445/1974, a paragraph is deleted. Promoting those of the officers are judged to be the chief. Why is it deleted? Retrospective earnings will be paid? It's a question. As far as three are concerned, until the first long-term and first three-year rolling programme have been drawn up, the time of entry into force of this paragraph has been discussed. It is a positive amendment, because it is within the financial jurisdiction of the staff and will facilitate the supplies of the defensive material. Now, as far as support contracts are concerned, we disagree with this amendment. There is no longer any definition of what is then considered support. Any FOS with any body shall be allowed to conclude. It goes without saying that the provision, which essentially legalises the conclusion with third parties, which are mainly translated with dubious materials, should be checked for their compatibility and certification by the construction company of the weapon system. We would also like to see your point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u93	Z' Vice-President of the House, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, first of all for the ratification of the memorandum of understanding on the accession of our country to NATO's mixed step towards e-government, as in committee, we will be voting in favour of this participation in the sense that it is compatible with our national interests and operates for the benefit of these interests. So our vote is positive. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned, the addition of the ministerial amendment. I would like to make one, two comments. It is a repetition of the remarks he made very clearly, I think, Mr. Dendias before. You'll tell me why I'm doing it. Because I want them to stay and be recorded once again. There is one question, Minister. Why should your fellow Members be pressed, in this unbearable way, within two, three hours of the day, we have to deal with an amendment that you bring, which has eighteen pages, for a bill that we voted on in July and where the tabling of this amendment today is convinced that some things have been completely superficial in July? The obvious and sincere, in my opinion, embarrassment you had in answering this remark is convinced that something is wrong. And I have the impression that if you want to draw constructive criticisms from your fellow Members, these issues will have to be taken care of. My colleague, Mr Dannelis, in his position later can make partial remarks, but I am making this sincere - in my opinion - a political observation. You are not helping us to help, if necessary, amendments that clarify ambiguities in the bill. You're not helping us that way. In order to come to the amendments tabled, one will go well next week, Mr President, did you not say so? On the other hand, I am in the right position of Mr Kaklamani's President. A week ago we discussed education issues in this Chamber. Was it so hard to have predicted that it could join in this debate? But it's been five days. Not all of this could have been born within five-quarters, that is, the issue of scholarship for the most deprived students. I would like to say that there is a sloppiness where, if you like, in a climate of consensus, we must also take into account you. We cannot - I repeat, and I know what I am saying, and I mean it - have unbearable pressure as your fellow Members, if we want to contribute constructively, because we cannot do so in the way that is being discussed. In that sense, Minister, I would like a few things to be aware of. When it comes to discussing a sanction, for example, and there are three amendments coming, one ministerial and two Members, and you are asking - and you are doing well - for all of us to have a positive say, in order that we can contribute, we should also be positive about our own capacity, that is, our time, and if you want to do what you want to be, constructively. We can't be with this curiosity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u96	Minister, on Friday, President Nikita Kaklamanis asked you a question about our military industry and especially about Greek defence systems. Our debate had moved in a very decent and constructive context. But, after my departure from the Chamber, I had a series of messages, persistent messages, which did not question you, but who were begging me to ask you to see who is misinforming you. That was the main request of many involved in our war industry. Because the permanent inclination of my three topical questions to you about the Greek defence systems is the same, Mrs. Gennimatas has tried very hard to accept our partners then to save our defence systems. And since everything is hanging out of a thread, but it has been two years - it was Mr. Quiet, now you - and our companies are all suffering from a lack of liquidity, i.e. money that will not go through contracts - contracts exist - and because we consider that you are well-advanced and because, Minister, it makes no sense to ask you in a few days' time to discuss it again, we ask for the initiative to be called on to convene the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for our defence industry, because, when it comes to two months, I will come back. However, the point is, as I am aware, that, as far as the months are concerned, certain things can be done, the business plan etc., but the problem of lack of liquidity arises. I would therefore like to ask you to take the initiative - I do not want to ask the rest of the opposition, to apply the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure to you, because the debate is organised and aggressive, that is not the spirit we have - and I would ask you to take the initiative to provoke this debate to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security. The second issue, which I would like to mention, has been covered by Mr Lykoudis. It is the question of the amendment with many provisions and of the weakness, which you lead us to take a position. It is the fifth time, and to be fairer - not to make a mistake - it is the fourth or fifth, which, while you have taken a legislative initiative, you are coming back a while later with one of the amendments. I do not want to make reproach about what is commonly said in the Greek Parliament, which, apart from Ethiopia, makes no sense, no mess, no distraction, no distraction, I do not like these arguments. If anything has to come here and be voted, let it come messy, if it's useful. But this is a system, because either the fourth or the fifth time, it states that while you have a legislative initiative on other issues, you are bringing these things here to a firm conclusion, so that we cannot easily locate a provision, which would probably cost us if we said 'yes'. It seems good to us, we vote positively, and then we pay it, and you say that a MP, who will vote for draft laws by the Ministry of Defence, must have next door to his seat and two or three Panagias to make his cross do not sit at him and nothing after that. Thirdly, is paragraph 12 for Gregory Azeri, the hero of Mahaira, a hero, not only of Cyprus but of all Hellenism? Why did you do that? We all say yes to that. You heard how all parties were placed. Isn't this the postmortem awarding of an opportunity for a more comprehensive debate at the level of the Greek Parliament? We shall vote for this because we are voting, as Mr Constantinople said, on the amendment. With her wishes, in other words, we are voting for her, fearing and hoping that nothing will happen to us after that. But, in any case, there is nothing unarmed to mobilize us to say no. Why should the issue of hero Gregory Aerospace be lost within a set of amendments and specific regulations? Why? Why not give this honor, as appropriate, to this hero? Think about it. You could take it back and bring it yourself. I would say that Mr Kaklamanis can consult with Mr Voutsi to hold a special meeting. In any case, not in this way, not in its logic of existing legislation. Now, one last point, concerning my duties, as a parliamentary representative. Mr President, I do not need more than twenty seconds. In a way that is not easily explained by one of your colleagues, Mr. Vernardakis, he attacked the President of Paralympics. He said: 'Funny of the joke'. I have sought in their online dialogue that such an insult has addressed the Minister and Paralympian, because the injustice is unfair, whoever does. From what I saw on the Internet - and I say it with caution because I might have missed something - and from what I saw and from the cover that the media did, I mustn't have missed anything. If I am right, then the intensity of the exchange of arguments is not the same. He's a man who criticizes the government and a Minister of State, isn't he? - who responds in a way that is very dismantling and violent against a person who is a Olympian, but who is also a disabled person. Have you escaped, ladies and gentlemen? A minister the other day fights a cancer patient. A Minister is now addressing himself in this dismissal against a disabled and Paralympian. Why are you doing this? Haven't you adapted to the fact that the government hears criticism? This is the obligation of the Constitution and of political ethics. This Minister, when it was a matter of days - and even a matter of days - had said that some SMEs are getting out of control, but we forgot about it. He came to remind us of it with another inappropriate behavior. Please, Minister, say a good word in your last speech today about the Paralympians and the particular executive of the Paralympic movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u97	All right, you're done, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I was not in favour of the amendment. Would you excuse me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u99	Not when we're done. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 17th High School of Patras (second section). The House welcomes them. In any case, Minister, it would be a good thing if this were to be the case with the Azsenio. I like the idea. The President of the House is also listening, Mr. Loverdos. It would be advisable to have a special meeting and to have a little general discussion in the forthcoming solution of the Cyprus issue - that is, the briefing. I think we all agree with what you said. At the same time, however, we read in foreign newspapers that Mr Biden is pressing on the Cypriot Government to accept a Turkish Cypriot based, in proportion to the British basis, on the occupied Cyprus. The Greek Parliament must know that. It's a good opportunity. Well, look at this with the Azzedio. I am interested in voting in favour, for example, of the Communist Party, which says'represent', while it wants to vote. The positive vote of all the others I consider to be a given one. I'm not talking about the known team. Well, check it out by the end of the meeting. We are now going to Mr Paphie, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u100	I imagine the government fully agrees with what Mr Tasulas said about NATO, that the country's membership of NATO has benefited the country all this time, since NATO exists. This is evidenced by the fact that he took it down to the Aegean Sea by an official invitation. NATO charity, from the natonic left now! Such a transformation! Now, indeed, it celebrates the fact that it will be installed - if it is installed and when it is installed - essentially a NATO electronic war base in Greece. You know, one should be very naive - not to say stupid - so that he does not understand the role that he will play in the field of electronic war, with the developments that we have in the wider region and with the risk of generalised war or war - to say it more elegantly - of another scale than what we live today. So it's crumbling, in fact, with arguments. If that's possible! That kind of stubbornness? There will be a hundred military families - it says - in Thessaloniki, at 113 battle wings. In other words, you are assimilating the risks which our own country assumes, by setting up such a unit - which is not nato-electronic warfare, at a time when the situation is explosive throughout the region. That kind of stubbornness? And you're compensating for this with a hundred families coming with the training the Armed Forces will have. These are to hide the full alignment you have - and there is no question - of NATO, whose history is known. NATO means junta and wars. NATO is painted with the blood of peoples all over the place. As for the profits of Greece, Mr President, we have avoided the invasion of Cyprus from the north, the communist risk. And he made her an ally. This is a benefit from NATO! Big one! Secondly, the country's sovereign rights and borders are called into question by a country - an ally, a member of NATO, Turkey. Oh, that's great. And NATO whistles indifferently. Even the night of the Imia didn't talk. He doesn't have the maps. He doesn't know them. That and too much else. So let us continue: the Minister said - and so it must be - that the Armed Forces' mission is to defend the country's sovereign rights, the borders. Isn't that right? So tell us, since it must be so, why all the governments - and yours - accept the naval doctrine of forming the Armed Forces and 40% are rapid intervention forces in NATO service? What interests do they defend in the country? The country's sovereign rights? The border? To have powers ready under naval command, to be able to intervene where NATO decides tomorrow? Where do you stand up for the borders and don't fight aggressive wars with the others? Secondly, participation in naval operations and military missions, what national interests do they serve? Is it a border defense? What do our soldiers want at all the lengths and the backs and the continents that are intervening in NATO and the European Union? What are they doing there? Are they doing peacekeeping missions or are they conducting interventions? Our participation in the war in Libya, Iraq, wherever: There are military or police forces in our country. What national interests do they serve? Unless you say what New Democracy was saying before the PASOK. That is what you will say, namely, that these are the obligations of this kind and, in the broad sense, they serve our national interests and defend borders. That's a huge hypocrisy. And you must tell the Greek people what you signed in Warsaw, so that those who voted for you in particular know it. You signed and welcomed, among other things, NATO's decision, which says we have the possibility of a first nuclear blow and we will use it in the region. Everyone understands what's going on. Because first nuclear blow means a response. And you signed it at the summit. He was homogeneous. What else did you sign? All this militarisation and tension, Russia's curiosity, as Russia says - it is not exactly like this, but about that - the whole NATO strategy, starting from above, from the Black Sea and ending up in the Middle East, which are war plans for which they are even played. Read the statements and the final text of Stoltenberg, which it says. "Now more than ever NATO - even from the Cold War - is ready militaryly to face up to modern threats." And, of course, it means competition with Russia and other countries. That's what you signed. Do they really serve the interests of the Greek people, or do they serve the imperialist interests and interests of the monopolistic groups, which turn around, to get any part of the pie, which is the blood of the peoples of the region and the rich production sources? So this serves the interests of the Greek people? Do these decisions defend the country's borders? What's up today? Why doesn't he talk about all these violations that Mr. Tasoulas says NATO helps us? Where does it help us? He's got a position on anything? Infringements? Does it take a position that Turkey is constantly crumbling the whole Aegean? Has he ever taken any political stand against Turkey? Oh, no. It does not even say, 'I don't get involved', not to say that it makes it easier sometimes. In the light of this, then, we, of course, do not vote because it is not innocent. The electronic war is not innocent at all. His seat is in Britain. The fact that a centre is being transferred here, I say, 'We are not licking our finger'. Whatever military, whatever analyst you ask, he understands that it has something to do with developments in the area. We say, then, that you are deeply involved in the country, other than if you present it as something innocent. It is also unacceptable that Erdogan's statements, as well as the violations in the Aegean, are being said in the interior of Turkey. On the contrary. The situation is escalating in...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Paphie, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u102	I'm done, Mr. President. To say just one word about this methodology with the amendments. I do not understand where you are going from now on to the meeting, bringing an amendment and saying: 'Decide'? What's that thing? We can't figure it out. Even though it's simple, you can't even see her. What's that logic? And I'm talking about the other eighteen together. You are, indeed, improving the worst - no matter how contradictory - the things that New Democracy and the PASOK have done before. It brought to an amendment four different things. The two of you agreed, and you didn't have the chance to vote. They didn't give up on each other. That's what you do. And with the Azedius, we agree. We have no objections. And I would remind Mr. Tasouula that your British allies and your friends in NATO burned him. They burned him alive. In NATO it was Britain, then Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, will this not be voted on unanimously?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u104	It will not be voted on unanimously. ANDREA LOVERDO? Since the JRC agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u105	It will not be voted on unanimously. It cannot be voted on unless the government has cut it off from the body of the amendment. Mr. Pachilis also spoke. It was clear and said 'they are present', while they would like to vote, but because of the increase they do not vote against the amendment and they say 'they are present'. The Golden Dawn also said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u106	We can't vote for Azsenios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u107	What can we do? Am I the government? I appealed to the Minister. We'll see at the end what he'll tell us. We now move on to the two colleagues - and the special speaker closes - Mr Constantine Katsiki and Mr Ioannis Saridis. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Two words very briefly will also be given in time to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding on NATO's mixed step and electronic war. As we have placed in committee, and I believe that the vast majority of the parties, and today, with the honour of being in the Chamber, remain the same and we will vote in favour of this ratification of understanding, understanding of NATO's mixed escalation. I should like to say, of course, that at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, both the officials of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of National Defence who was present, they had a full, comprehensive and measurable position, a content recommendation, so that the few questions which were then asked were answered clearly. And I do not hide from you that I am surprised, because confronting and opposing today raise this issue. Of course I also share the view of the Deputy Minister of National Defence in relation to his reply on this matter. I now come to the amendments, starting with the first, whose content concerns purely national defence issues and regulations, which, in our view, promote the legitimate and legitimate demands of officials from one to the Armed Forces, since a fair treatment is now being created with regard to military, graduation and other development which concerns them, on the other hand, an improvement in the terms and rules of the Ministry of National Defence's property utilization service, so that it will best be exploited and benefit the Ministry's finances. It has been heard in this Chamber - and I continue to stand on this amendment, Mr President - that there has also been a delay in the tax which we owe and we pay tribute to the Independent Gregory, the hero of Cyprus. It has been heard that this issue, as a matter of paragraph 12, is also being incorporated in this amendment. Of course, this finding that this is a delay may give the answer that this amendment is now stopping this delay and speeding up an issue which should have taken place a long time ago and had been settled. Of course, we fully agree on the honorary event, which must be done and said more and more things with greater comfort in this person and in the personality of the hero. To conclude with this amendment, with which we agree and vote for it, I would like to say a few words about the amendment concerning the Ministry of Education in relation to the loan, but also financial support for the grants of undergraduate students. First of all, it was stated by the Minister, Mr Vitsa, that these funds are from the NSRF. Beyond the important social element towards the sensitive student population in terms of their support, I would like to say one more thing: the NRP funds have been very difficult to absorb in the past. We also know that specific procedures must also be carried out by the legislative authority and the agencies, which are acting on the allocation of these funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So in the thought that these funds - and I am ending - must be used up, accounted for - and, in any case, the state budget is not charged - I think that here too, the issue raised in relation to the relevance of the amendment to the draft law we are debating must be avoided, with priority being given to the absorption of the budget before the risk of delay and hence the loss of it. Therefore, I do not think that the issue should be raised because this amendment comes into this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Saridis from the Centroon Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Defence Union has already argued in favour of our country's participation in the mixed e-government and has stressed in the Committee on National Defence that the ratification of this memorandum of cooperation, which had been signed since August 2013, has already been delayed. We have also noted that we were in favour of hospitality in the 113 Wing of this stadium. Greece's stay in NATO, at this stage, is beneficial for the country's national defence and national interests. It strengthens its position in a really difficult period of national security, just as events are currently evolving in our wider region. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of National Defence, Amendment No 728, once again the Government amazes us how it clearly legislates. In this amendment and indeed some things should be voted on by the Greek Parliament, the way in which the government chooses to bring them - that is, twelve different paragraphs - leads to direct blackmail as to whether or not to vote 'yes' or 'no' for the parties in this amendment. I would like to stress that the position of the Centroon Union is in favour of this amendment. But I would like in the time that I have to say a few words to make some reservations about some paragraphs, such as paragraph 1, where it actually clears up the landscape with which officers from the Flying Radiofreight School can only be transferred to the Hellenic Air Force Support and Technical Support Services, but the justification for this is not enough. This, together with the abolition - as is apparent from the second paragraph - of the assessment of the specialty of joining the Technical Support and Support Services officers in the yearbook, gives rise to a lot of questions. We, for our part, have reservations in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 about what is actually going on in these regulations. In paragraph 3, you may actually be able to correct an ignorance and add other public bodies and public undertakings, with which the fund will be able to proceed directly with the use of the property it manages. However, here we have an objection to the issue of periodicity, which you put at the end of the paragraph, which refers to the agreed, to a minimum, contribution to the use of our property, which concerns us and does not understand what the purpose of this emblem-based clarification is. In paragraph 4, you correct a known injustice regarding the transitional provisions of two laws of 2010, which effectively gave the right to those who completed in December 2014 twenty-five years of actual service to be covered by the previous law, by Law 2439/1996. In paragraph 5, it turns out that the Ministry of National Defence is better harmonised with the Church than the Ministry of Education actually. You really ought to follow the rules of the Church. In paragraph 6, you are strengthening the internal control unit, which you have, however, created and it is your responsibility to present to us both its work and its results. In paragraph 7, you "false" self-righteous promotion to the degree of Major and Lieutenant Colonel. In fact, we do not agree with this provision. In paragraphs 8 and 9, injustices are corrected for those who completed twenty-five years in 2013 and 2014. In paragraph 10, activate some of the programs. We don't have anything to say. Paragraph 12 is the best paragraph, in which you honor a hero of Hellenism, Azedios. Once again, I would like to express the position of the Centro Association with its reservations, as they have heard: the Centro Association is voting for this amendment, as is the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. We move on and close with Mr. Spyridon Danell and Mr. George Carras. One, one and a half minutes I will also give Mr Tasouula to put him on the SYRIZA amendment for the students, and the Minister will close the meeting with a five-minute period - he does not need any more - and we will be voting on. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if our concept of opposition was to be exhausted in its perpetual white-black logic, we would not have any issue. However, because we want our opposition to be constructive and useful, we are once again in the gloomy position to say that the methodology you are following is not appropriate to 'flexible legislation'. Of course, knowing you, I understand the difficulty you have in supporting something different. I now come to the substance of the amendments, because we have said that we are voting in favour of the ratification of the convention. Your amendment comes, as is customary, to correct or add to a bill that we had the opportunity to discuss and vote with a large majority three months ago. From what we have been able to do and what we have been able to see in the few hours at our disposal, we have no objection to the amendment. We shall be voting in favour of the amendment despite the practice followed. It goes without saying that the prediction of the price in Gregory Azediou, in an amendment that comes to regulate various functions of the Ministry, I think it gives the image of clandestineness, 'plins and horns that are swept apart'. It is inappropriate for us to support this regulation, which is almost everyone in this House, as we should have said. But we are voting in favour of this amendment. As regards the parliamentary amendment, last week we passed a bill from the relevant ministry. I do not understand why, while the problem is not currently, there was no provision at that time to deal with it as we all had to do. We will vote in favour of it because we do not disagree with the need to provide scholarships with social criteria for students with such problems. We only want to make clear the distinction that we must have as a state against these kinds of scholarships that are necessary, particularly at this difficult time for our society and those scholarships that have to do with the recognition of students' excellence. One must not work at the expense of the other. So that there are no discounts - because we have in the past had the downgrading of the grade in order to integrate many more students into the provision of the system into the scholarships - we have to be careful that each step does not create problems and downgrade other kinds of steps that we have previously achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Carras, you're playing the double door from what I see, George Demetrios Karras. I want to know if your colleagues should expect a double treat or if you have one of the two names. Can I tell you many years on behalf of all of us? Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u114	I accept many years, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u115	Happy birthday to all colleagues, the workers in the House, the journalists, the police. The Bureau has been wishing you many years since today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am honored for your placement. I have to say my grandparents decided to give me each other their name. They didn't ask me, unfortunately. I wanted to address myself to the issue of a hero of the Azsenio before everything, Mr President. We believe that, because it is a bright example of Greek heroism and is linked to the enormous issue of Cyprus, the Greek Parliament should have voted for a provision and promoted the hero of Azedios to the highest degree. Today, however, we see the proposal made by the amendment, which underestimates it, if you like. I don't want to say it. I underestimate him first, why did he come as the last paragraph of an amendment, which is what? Is that an amendment? Oh, no. It is a full piece of legislation because it concerns staff, procurement and procurement issues. On the other hand, I would like to point out this. I regret the fact that the promotion is assigned by a presidential decree. It should be the law of the Greek Parliament to honor the Azsenios and to be forbidden to a lieutenant, even lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u117	The promotions are by decree. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u118	Apart from that, Mr President, Mr Saridis referred to many issues. I will not go into the amendment in particular, because we have serious reservations, but it is no longer important. We shall vote for it only for the paragraph 12 that comes. I will say something else, however, at this point. It is the repetition of previous projects, Mr President. Law 4407 was passed two or three months ago. So has the experience proved inapplicable, or has it been the ruthlessness of the proposal of the law that came to Parliament two or three months ago? Next issue is the use of real estate. Today I am unable to assess it. I see that the property of the Ministry of National Defence is being extended. It sets a minimum level of remuneration of 5%, but we do not know in the current circumstances whether it is causing interest even in public operators to exploit, because the real estate market is not at its best today. I would now like to address two points. The first concerns the long-term 15-year programme, divided into three-year rolling programmes. I read in the previous legislation that it has a starting point in 2010 and that the first three-year rolling programming performance had to be completed in 2013. I would like to hear from the Minister on this point, not just for the reasons of memoriality, but for what has happened and after six years we are effectively abandoning the 15-year programme. As long as you ask us to vote in Parliament for a three-year rolling, we understand, Mr Vitsa, that even the 15-year pension will go far behind. It means, therefore, that the issues of the operation of the Armed Forces are raised as sluggishly as possible. The next issue concerns so-called support programmes, contracts. This is a huge issue, because it cannot come with an amendment to basic legislation on support contracts, when it is consistent with supply contracts. Supporting contracts should reasonably follow the procurement contract. Unless, Mr President, there is a deliberate separation - it is not about the current leadership of the Ministry, I speak in person and in general - because much has been said in the past about armament programmes. The country still pays them, for example, that it has not succeeded in finishing the contracts for torpedoes and submarines, and that it has not been possible to complete a provision, to be ticked, to finish these programmes in any case. Therefore, our reservations are strong. We shall vote, however, as we have said. And I would like to say another thing about the amendment that Mr Vitsa of the SYRIZA colleagues accepted for the grants of undergraduate students. I don't know if it's in the 2014-2020 ESDP programme or in the rest of the 2007-2013 ESDP programme. It's not something that's gonna bother me right now. However, I am concerned about whether it is an initiative of colleagues, which I will applaud, or whether it is a signatory of the Minister or of a minister who wanted to go through something. Because it depends on the details, it says, by a decision of the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not think and do not think, Mr President, that amendments by fellow Members, who may be in a position to solve problems, are transferring to the Minister by decision. This is totally bureaucratic and does not convince me that this amendment is a fellow Member, but that it comes with some ministerial intentions. Irrespective of this, however, because it concerns students who are currently in need of assistance and, anyway, because the level of study in Greece at the moment is not the best possible, they too should be strengthened and we should vote for the amendment. To sum up, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, I would like to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u119	Because tomorrow's celebration is tolerance. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u120	I understand that, Mr President. Thank you. Once again, legislation is downgrading. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Mr Tassoula, you have the floor for two minutes to place yourself on the parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u122	Yes, Mr. President. For the parliamentary amendment I will not express SYRIZA's fascinating reaction to similar cases before, but I will remind you of a very clever one that the people say 'others say the letters and things are saying'. Now that you're in things, I understand about it. You see that many times they need amendments, but here we have a bottom-up, let me say, infringements. We are violating the principle that we do not have any amendments to sanctions, we do not have late amendments, and we do not have any amendments that are irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion. Here, then, we have a downside of violations by some who, until two years ago, were mystic about everything. I, who are not mysterious, and I am more landed and more honest, believe I do not make complaints and yelling. I understand that legislative function and executive power have many difficulties. However, in the specific amendment to the Ministry of Education, I would like to ask a lot of questions and I am not asked by colleagues who sign them, because I too suspect that many parliamentary amendments at this time are what we would call crypt-mechanism. It is a way of bypassing the General Accounting Office of the State and other procedures and giving colleagues the role that the Ministers should normally have. Therefore, while it seems to be very sympathetic at first glance, I would like to have the opinion of the State Scholarship Foundation. It frightens me that it only concerns HEIs, and not TEIs, so you will allow me to be negative. But I understand why you often have to accept such amendments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying, because I was attacked by the Communist Party's colleague, that NATO is obviously not a place of paradise. We have suffered things and have the responsibility of NATO. I am not aware, however, that our country was unable to diversify itself when its interests dictated differentiation from NATO. I remind you of the exit from NATO's military arm in 1975 and remind you of the fact that in the 1950s, when Cyprus was boiling, and we had these deaths like the Azeri...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u123	Okay, but hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u124	Greece, Mr President, member of NATO, did not follow NATO's policy on the issue of the Suez crisis or the Lebanese crisis. Imagine being a member of the Warsaw Pact, if we'd dare differentiate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u125	Don't open up that kind of thing now, Mr. Tasoula!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u126	Yes, but we cannot answer that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u127	But it wasn't an attack on you. It's a fact that happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u128	I, too, refer to a fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u129	The English have burned him. What can we do? That doesn't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u130	I say we're in NATO, but we're also a free country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u131	Deal! And I'm in favor of being, but that the English burned him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u132	Not as we'd be if we were members of the Warsaw Pact.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u133	The English have burned him! That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u134	Of course, but we were in a terrible conflict with the English at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u135	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u136	They weren't friends then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u137	They were friends of NATO. Friends of ours, not and now they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u138	We were differentiated, that's what I'm saying. On Amendment No 731/59, although she is very sympathetic at first sight, I will be allowed to express my refusal, because I have many questions left unanswered. We will therefore not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u139	Unless they're answered and covered in part. Minister, I give you five minutes. There's gonna be a relative tolerance, though I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u140	I will be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u141	Yeah, but don't pull me until it goes 19.00 to get the other speech. We should hang up. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u142	Once there are some radio stations that have taken names, etc., I don't want to be in the patronages of newspapers and radio stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u144	I'll stay in the following. Firstly, it is added to the title of the bill, at the end of the day, the 'and other provisions', on the basis of the amendments that I have accepted and tabled, to be clear about this issue. The second issue concerns an issue raised by Mr Lovers. Of course, I accept a debate on the respective committee of Parliament not later than 15 days on the situation and what needs to be done, and also on the defence industry. I would just remind you that this morning the committee responsible discussed the national defenceist industrial and technological strategy for the next 15 years. Thirdly, with regard to the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence, I said right from the outset that it is basically normal. In fact, on the three pages - and not on the eighteen - which are mentioned in the changes to the provisions, you will see that the biggest part is the difference of a word, that is, the new one from the old. This has emerged - I am not claiming you to believe me so well - from the way we tried to implement them. That is the main issue. The three issues, one of the four that went through, are as follows: An issue was raised by the New Democracy for those who joined in 1990. I would like to say that we are examining their subject to Law 2439/96. We will see it in due course. The second question he raised concerns the military judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u145	You're talking about participating in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u146	Participation in committee. Our opinion - and this is what is reflected - is that the military judges have no experience and it is good not to have - how to say it otherwise, I mean good not in introductory words - in economic crime. That is why we considered it appropriate for him to join the committee from the hides and skins. Of course, in this committee there is also a representative of the legal body. What Mr Constantinople said is probably a misunderstanding. in paragraph 8, the first subparagraph of paragraph 11 is replaced; The second paragraph, which refers to crises, remains as it stands, that is, we do not change this verse. The third thing I would like to say is the issue raised by Mr Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u147	So no retrospective remuneration will be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u148	We will consider this. However, there is no crisis. I am going to the third point you raised in relation to the parliamentary amendment. I contacted the Ministry of Education. I have to tell you about the first issue of the TEI - which other Members have put into it - that the 1992 law only refers to the HEIs and mentions the way. In other words, as far as the way is concerned, the law itself refers to him as soon as possible. So that's admissible. I take your position, your opinion, to make a legislative improvement quickly and to finish this issue too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u149	Legislative, if it is adopted today, as it does, Minister, it cannot be done. He has to come another way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u150	Legislative improvement I mean later in another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u151	Then another amendment will come, yes. Cos legally, it doesn't improve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u152	I mean, next time, not her. She ends here today. So, I think we should go to that. As far as the price due is concerned - and I think there is no disagreement - on Gregory Alassenios, there is a procedure. Under this law, promotions are always done only by a presidential decree. There's no other way. I therefore propose to you - it is not about the bill - that we vote today, that the respective Presidential Decree and at a special event that the House can co-organise, together with the Ministry of National Defence, in a Chamber of Parliament or in a chamber of the Ministry of National Defence, should become the official ceremony of his proclamation to a Lt-Gen. The last issue concerns a number of things Mr Dendias said. I do not want to open the political dialogue, I would just like to point out to him and, if he wants, it can also be changed in the Minutes. The government must not answer for statements made by other Heads of State. Information may be requested from the Government, but should not be required. So, does any president of another state say anything and does the government have to answer? But I have this to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u153	Do you have to think about this again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u154	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u155	So does Erdogan make statements against Greece and any Greek government does not answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u156	He must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u157	Hey, that's what I'm saying. You said you didn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u158	Oh, no. I say he has to answer the President. He must not be our representative, answer as if he were the Greek President, justify or justify what Erdogan or anyone else says. We must answer. You just catch me when I'm going to give an answer - my own, of course. In any case, we know what ours are, we do not put them on any negotiating table, we do not discuss them. On the other hand, we call on everyone, when they manifest paragliding or other krone, either for internal use or for external use, to avoid the reference to Greece. Greece as a sovereign state as a whole and first and foremost its people claim nothing, but in any case does not discuss such issues that concern its sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and No.3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, on 25-10-2016: Firstly, there is a criminal court order concerning the former Minister of Finance, Mr Ioannis Stournara. Second, a criminal court case concerning the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Nikolao Toska. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the beginning of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Administering the NATO Mixed Climb on Electronic War (JEWCS) in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America and the Armed Forces of the United States of America". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u167	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Administering of NATO's Mixed Climb for Electronic War [Joint Electronic Warfare Core Staff (JEWCS)] in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, the High Authority of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations and the Ministry of Administration of Administration of the European Union, became a major successorate of the Hellenic Republic of the Hellenic Republic and the Hellenic Republic of Greece's. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article 1 of the ratification be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no. Will you take the amendment, Mr President, in writing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u172	It's Article 1 of the penalty, Mr. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u173	I didn't hear it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u174	I wish there was the procedure you were saying in the amendment. Perhaps it is a matter of discussing this in changing the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u175	To change the Rules of Procedure. We agree to the masts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u176	We shall continue with the vote on Article 1 of the ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u180	Article 1 of the sanction was therefore accepted by a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 2 of the ratification be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u188	Article 2 of the sanction was therefore accepted by a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 728 and a special number 56 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u190	Yes, but because it is all in an article, as I said, in paragraphs 1, 4, 6 and 7 we said 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u191	Yes, with the points we have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u192	Today, with the points and the remarks we have made on the Azsenios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u196	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 728 and a special 56 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 731 and a special number 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u199	Yes, with the labels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u200	Present, without prejudice. We don't know the details.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u201	Yes, with the remarks that have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u204	Therefore, the amendment under general number 731 and special 59 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u212	The Court of First Instance therefore accepted the application by a majority of its members. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Administering of NATO's Mixed Climb for Electronic War [Joint Electronic Warfare Core Staff (JEWCS)] in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United States, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the other States's Republic's Transformal Provisions and Administration's provisions on other provisions relating to the Construction and Administration of the General Administration of the European Communities". We are entering the vote of the bill as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u220	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘State the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Support of NATO's Mixed Climb for Electronic War [Joint Electronic Warfare Core Staff (JEWCS)] in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, has made the following provisions as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u222	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-25-S1-commons.u223	With the consent of the House at 18.13 a meeting with wishes to the Dimitris and Dimitrioules and to remind you that on Thursday it will be the established festivities of the House on October 28 and on behalf of all the MPs we declare: "Have the nation!"
