ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-9-2016, the PPA's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PPA's minutes, on Thursday, 1 September 2016, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Amendment of the n. Directive 2014/91/EU/L 257) and other provisions’]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 5 September 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1201/30-8-2016 of the Member of Parliament Fthiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Health, about the problems in the functioning of the General Hospital of Lamia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 1191/29-8-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges. 3. The 1197/29-8-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about illegal electronic gambling. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1202/30-8-2016 by MP Argolidas of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the progress of the work of the Argolida irrigation network. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 4375/304/31-3-2016 by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the contract by Kim Glen, or by the company representing the Greek Government, the Ministry of Finance or any supervised body by it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Three topical questions will be discussed today. Mr. Alexiadis, Mr. Toskas, will be here and Mr. Katrugalos will be here. I will first announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. The first question under number 1200/30-8-2016 of the new Republic MP Evros, Mr Anastasios Grassaki, Minister for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, on the situation of red loans in Evros and Thrace, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, abroad. The following questions will also not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first under number 1199/30-8-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the maritime tragedy in Aegina, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Dritsa. Also, the first 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent MEP, Leonidas Gregorakos, to the Minister of Finance, on the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou. We will now discuss the second question by number 1198/30-8-2016 of the first question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the introduction of a special irresponsible account for all businesses. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the reality which leads to the need for discussion and, in principle, proposals for the establishment of the special irresponsible account of professionals, entrepreneurs and people who are active in any sector of our economy. The fact is that in the years of the crisis the phenomenon of paddocks has been intensified in businesses that have had a huge burden of responsibility and at the same time have failed to cope with, in and in the climate of the recession that has prevailed. But there are tens of thousands, not to say hundreds, of businesses and professionals who are struggling to keep their business despite difficulties, of course having public obligations, the insurance funds, but at the same time having an activity. The public - and it does well - is seeking to collect the money due from it and as a weapon it has confiscation of the accounts. We have a huge increase in accounts seized by businesses on the part of the public authorities for debts. I think that about five hundred thousand were the accounts seized in the quarter of January - April. Last year it was about 100 thousand less in the respective space. The state is coming - and rightly so - and it strengthens the system of electronic transactions, which will, in fact, become universal and compulsory after a period of time. And all this must be combined with the need to support some businesses, whether they are doing it. So this leads to the need to introduce the special irresponsible account, which I proposed by the previous government, and which the small and medium-sized, and particularly the SSH in particular have proposed to you and which has been put at the negotiating table. I believe that by establishing the account, which will not exclude any sector of the economy - that is, from farmers, professionals and entrepreneurs - public debts, insurance funds, rents, suppliers and at the same time the money will be collected through POS, but also by electronic transactions - of course, rules and as a percentage of the total turnover will be paid. It will be a very useful tool, so that the public can also secure its interests, but businessmen will also get rid of fear, but also of the process of confiscation of accounts, which inactivates them and does not give them the right to fight. That's what they want, to be able to fight to keep their businesses. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u3	You have the floor, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I am concerned, Mr Papoutsis, the issue you raised on the professional account, we want to do two things. One is to help businesses in a very difficult period, because we understand the difficulties that tax and economic and economic problems are encountering them in the process of making savings from taxes, from insurance funds or from banks, and indeed the professional account gives them this possibility. The second thing we want to do - and I think it is a requirement of the whole society - is to expand electronic, digital transactions, as much as possible. We are doing so for the sake of compromising reasons, in order to have better public receipts, in relation to what we have so far, and for reasons of audit, to save audit staff, but also to automate too many audit procedures, which can be done automatically when electronic, digital transactions go ahead. In order to do this, we have been working on what has been proposed for many months by social actors - the ESS is one of the first bodies to have proposed this, and we have adopted it - that a special professional account should be created, that is to say, to have inputs, the businessman's cash to pay for any obligation, to have an input of everything that the POS has, to have an input and what comes through the Internet, and from this account to only have outputs back what the businessman breaks down with his card, what he pays for transactions via the Internet and from this account to be paid automatically by fixed orders for salaries, income tax, VAT, wage tax on services, insurance contributions, TEC. This will help to avoid a new time-consuming process, to enable entrepreneurs to meet their needs and to enable the public to have cleared up a wide range of corporate tax obligations and to be able to respond better to business and to make better planning. In this area, I would like to tell you that negotiations have been opened for too long. We're almost close to the end. I think that this case is now finalised at the negotiating level and we will soon be able to announce the final arrangements, which will be incorporated into the draft law on electronic transactions, which we will bring directly to Parliament. So I want to tell you that we're on a good track. Very soon we will be able to give you detailed answers on this matter. General replies to seizures are also available in the specific document given to me by the General Secretariat of Public Revenues Directorate, which I will submit in the Minutes, so that you can have more specific information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u5	Before I give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, Mr Alexiadis, I would like to tell you that you are right about what you said. By coincidence, both you and Mr. Toskas and Mr. Katrugalos belong to those ministers you respond to and come almost always to answer current questions. This issue has been raised by the Conference of Presidents. Mr Kegeroglu, too, had raised the matter. If I remember correctly, Mr Kegeroglu, we said that this is in the second part of the Rules of Procedure, and in October the responsible Commission will deal not only with the issue you raised - and you are right - but also with other matters relating to Part II of the Rules of Procedure. However, because I'm rightly complaining about other ministers, I have to say the good words about the three who are here today. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u6	Until the Rules of Procedure change, however, we want to have the presence of the ministers to praise them, just for the presence. Because when it comes to five minutes or three minutes you have to be present and do not come, without any other obligation - because we know from government obligations - and it is not indifferent, we will certainly not praise it, but we will judge it. As you said, however, for those who are present today, the consistency in fulfilling the obligations for parliamentary control applies. Minister, what you have told us is positive. It really needs to be done, not because we, the institutions, are calling for it, but because reality itself, the real economy. I want you to be careful we don't have exceptions to any kind of activity. Including rural activities, farms, professionals and businesses. If the way the special irreversible account is put in place, taking everything that I and you have said syntheticly today, I think it will serve as much as you can in the public interest, but above all in terms of the possibility that we will enable them to fight to keep their business. It's simple. I have worked out, as I have said, from the previous government, a provision which I had tabled. I will give it to you, does it sound useful to you in terms of the legislative framework, which you want to create. The provision I am proposing relates to any natural or legal person engaged in an activity in the primary, secondary or tertiary sector - without any exception, therefore - who should be able to maintain a specific unreasonable account against any requirement of public and private individuals and from anyone, to any of the credit institutions in the country. It must be unique, of course, for there to be management, and through this special account, as we have already said, collectings should be made through POS, through electronic transactions and deposits and, of course, payments to the public, public enterprises, insurance funds, for workers, rents, suppliers. It is therefore necessary for each undertaking to identify a working capital that is to be used for these purposes, in addition to tax obligations, and that is the crucial factor that has to be taken into account in the past years. The number of workers employed in previous years must also be taken into account, so the corresponding insurance contributions, the tax paid or payable. Through a function, through an algorithm that will have parameters and other things other than what I said, it will be possible for each business to get the amount or percentage, if you want, on the turnover, which will be for the irresponsible account exactly and will reflect the reality of this business. In other words, there is a technical way. I believe that the Ministry's services will be able in such a way that they define exactly what the provision should be and how it should be implemented, and that is why I believe that it is a great and positive step, in order to give this opportunity to businesses through the special irresponsible account. I shall present to you, Minister, the provision I propose. [[At this point, the Member of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u8	Of course, Mr Papoutsis, we will use every proposal that will help in this direction. The processing that we have been working on so far makes no provision for an exception to the bill. It will concern everyone in this account. And there is no exception, because the exceptions create various other side effects. We don't need to. We are working on this bill and on the overall planning that we have on taxation we will also bring new bills and we will have new changes. Allow a comment here, because of the news. Recent developments, with the unexpected increase in public revenues from last night's developments, give us the opportunity to better planning, because no one expected this EUR 240,000,000 gift for the Greek State, which will enable the government to make better planning and better financial management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u9	As a tax advisor, you know, of course, that they must first enter the fund and then celebrate. We proceed with the third with number 115/29-8-2016, a top-level question for the first-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the police officers serving at the high-profile custody service. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I do not hide from you that motive for this timely question is the police, Minister. However, I would like to make a few things clear here, since I recall that the Directorate-General for Official and Sensitive Objectives has about four thousand police officers. If I'm wrong, fix me. 1/3 of these policemen are moving in this triangle "Presidential Palace - Maximos - Parliament Security". No one said that these three points were unsafe, the former Prime Ministers and went by saying. It's four thousand. I want to quote a clue. In the countries of Europe, only the ministers have protection. It's evidence that you can cross it. I would also like to remind you that a lot of people are serving in Lefkanedi, but the policemen, who do not know if they are going home at night, are around the thousands of five hundred, at the same time that some police stations, in the area of Mr Katsiki, in the rest of Attica, we have not even had a night shift. What do I mean? With great respect and love for all Greek policemen, as it is a very difficult job, which I couldn't do, I have heard you lately that you are going to make changes. Everyone promises this, but I have heard you say that there are seven hundred of them recently. My sense is this: at the same time - I say again - that crime is increasing with geometric progress, it is a challenge, Minister, that there should be such a large part of the police, who are putting an instrument for this. I'm telling you one example. In the September elections a young journalist brought her a young policeman with a motorcycle. Mercy! This was clearly done and the press wrote it. I think there's more than seven hundred ground. That's a little bit of a number. I think we all know that the country's economic potential is small. You can't hire others. You already have fifty-five thousand policemen all over the country. It's not just Attica. I'm talking about all of Greece. Some policemen, then, feel that they are wrong and unjusted blatantly. I'm making you a double proposal, beyond the one-half cut to 50%. I don't understand why a former Prime Minister must have cars and motorcycles and so on. I don't understand why. The Chief of Staff, instead of having fifty, may have thirty. The leader of a smaller party, instead of having thirty, may have fifteen. Do it now. It's a sacred obligation. I'm telling you again that there is a terrible sense of injustice. Above all, I as head of department in the "Evangelism" was rotating. I got an O.R. expert who then went to the labs. Why are the people who are standing up for the presidential palace, the Maximos Mansion and the Security of the House permanent? A Member of Parliament speaks to you. I may be insane, not to accept a police officer, Minister, and I see former Members, former MEPs and current MEPs, or I see a Prime Minister who does not even live in Athens, and who keeps him. It's something I think needs to get in order, to be done. They feel terribly wronged by the cops. I would also like to express my regret at what has recently happened with the modest commander, who has been subjected to violence in this region and which is not your fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u11	But please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll tell you more in my denture. I'll listen with great respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, Mr Papachristopoulos, thank you for the timely question. Of course, you know that these days have decided a brave reduction in police officers serving at the Office for Official Publications, as they are called. That didn't happen within a day. It was after examination by a committee of all the factors relating to the safety of persons to whom police have been placed. It has been a process that lasted for about five months since April. I had instructed the Greek Police, seeing the excessive number of people who are guarding persons, many of whom have no risk, who are in addition to the ones provided for by the Presidential Decree setting out who should be protected or who should be supervised. The Greek Police within the framework of its mission provides mandatory security escorts for persons, especially the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, the members of the Government, the Heads of the parties, the President and Prosecutor of the Ice Award and others. But the process over time was over. The procedure had been terminated on many occasions. With a simple phone, many were escorted by police officers and some of them weren't even dealing with the security of these people, but either they did a second job or they were sitting at their house or doing anything but protection and security. This situation, obviously, is unacceptable. Obviously, it's not going to be tolerated by the government, by me, by the police leadership. I have the numbers in front of me, and I can tell you that out of the two and a half thousand policemen, who are employed in the missions I have described, and I take out the Security of the House - the seven hundred will be withdrawn and made available to carry out police duties for the benefit of the social system, that is to say, they will go on the road to clean police and that will be done by the end of September. They're going to services where the real police need them. And I quote: They will go to West Attica, they will go to the center of Athens, they will go to "DIA", they will go to the immediate action where there is the greatest need for policing. You are well aware that it is important for his collective individual, but if I mention cases individual cases in which he was provided with security, he will laugh at every bitter one. We're treating these morbid situations. From that point on, more evidence will be reported in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u16	First of all, I want to be fair. There are judges - who are former judges - who have made very tough decisions at some point. No objections to these people! I'm not talking about it! I am not talking about the House building, the Presidential Palace, or the Maximos Mansion. They must be guarded. The number'seven hundred' is a positive step, Minister. I welcome it positively. You'll be the first to do it. I think it must be more bold. Three thousand policemen in this service are many. I'm telling you, only a thousand and a half people are fighters for three and a half million civilians. If that makes sense, I leave it to the judgement of what we hear. Make a commitment to what you said! I'm glad you're telling me that in September, seven hundred will be withdrawn. It's a big number. I wish! Go ahead and go ahead and above all, go ahead with my proposal! The president knows we're in medicine doing rotation. Why does someone have to be permanent here in the House? It disturbs me - and I tell you directly - the image of the policeman opening the door to the Member or the Minister. It's bothering me! It's not the policeman's business, it's someone else's job. We need to know. Palme was Prime Minister of Sweden and he didn't even have care. That's how they murdered him. He came out of the movies with his wife. Poor thing! He had gone to the other end. But not to get to the point of becoming police ordinances of politicians, businessmen and journalists. Many of them have the possibility, they have money. Entrepreneurs and journalists, children, if you think you're in danger, pay! No relationship to God I'm not talking about the House building, I'm not talking about the Maximos Mansion, I'm not talking about the Presidential Palace. Think about what I'm telling you, the rotation. They're some people that's permanent. Why? One doesn't know if he's going home tonight to find his wife and children, and the other one is stuck in the courtyard of the House. Stand for a timeline and dare a bigger number! I consider the step you are taking positive and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u18	First of all, the figures you mentioned before, which you said that around a thousand five hundred are used to policing in Athens and that many more are used for the safety of so-called "high people" are indeed. It's a number that was searched not by the random policeman, but by the Ministry's political chief, because on my own command, he searched what was happening in the rest of Europe. That's the situation, as you said. In other European countries, only ministers and few others have police protection. We are working in this direction. By the end of September, seven hundred people will have been retired and given the regular policing. I will personally insist that they are not absorbed in luxury or in places where they do nothing. Around eighty cars and motorcycles will leave these supposedly missions and go to the real policing missions. Our priorities are the ones I have told you, and I think that is where the problem areas are and there are the problems. The simple, unprotected citizen must feel that he has protection on the road, in his everyday life. This is our pursuit. It's the first step. It's not the final step. You will then see that further steps will be taken with regard to directing police officers to clean policing. These are modernizations simple, which I believe everyone supports in this area. They have been modernizations in other countries for too many decades. Unfortunately, things have been shattered in a perception of covetousness and protectionist and protected ones. This cannot continue. We're just taking steps, which should be under any circumstances. And they will. You bet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Member Ahmet Ilhan is requesting a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 6 September to 15 September 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u20	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its Reports to the draft laws: a. of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Under the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations undertaken by the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period, in accordance with Doha's amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by Mr. 4345/2015 (A'148), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by Law 3017/2002 (A'117).’ b. The Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Tourism Cooperation between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee of Tourism and Antiquities of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia". And we reach the last for today's topical question. It is the second under number 1196/29-8-2016 up-to-date question of the second question of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the proposal to transform the unemployment benefit into a job subsidy. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Let me observe what you have read about my timely question, about its number and the date of its statement, and let me inform both you and the House - the Minister, I am sure he knows it - that this statement was preceded by the same question on 5 August 2016, about a month ago, with a deposit number of 1173, but the procedure provided for and imposed its reintroduction, because then the House closed down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, you fell into the middle timeframe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u23	I say this, Mr President, to point out that its content has been known since then and by tabling the first question, but also by the press release, which I had then put up online in order to make it more widely known. And, of course, I am very pleased, Minister, which I felt from the way you dealt with the content of my question, after the statements made with it on 29 August, when at your meeting with the bodies of the Chambers of Chambers of Greece, you expressed these views which are identical to the content of my question. And as much as my short parliamentary term does not allow me emotional acrobatics, Minister, but let me tell you that the parliamentary virtue of the parliamentary truth should characterise all of us who have sworn to serve the interests of the Greek people. I say this because I expected from you and the recognition of my own personal effort as a new Member. Through any announcements you made on this very important subject, you have made a little mention of my miniature. Allow me, in the time left, Mr President, to refer to the content of this question, as much as I can best analyse its content. I believe it was the thorny challenge of exploring the staff of your colleagues, Mr Minister, who obviously confirmed what I have said in my question and led to your - I want to believe - complete acceptance. In support of my question, I will submit official OAS data for the month of July 2016, according to which the officially subsidised unemployed amount to a hundred tens of three hundred ninety-four people over eight hundred six thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If the proposal were to be implemented in all the eligible unemployed, a reduction in the unemployment rate of 13.4% would be achieved. The implementation of the proposal contained in this question will, I believe, have multiple benefits, giving working hope to people who, after their dismissal, were devoid of their future. Their subjection to this programme will also keep the country's productive fabric alive and will substantially help to restore the economy. The success of the project, in my view, will only be achieved if it involves the element of compulsoryity. This would have been a success if we had cultivated a working culture as a people. This programme could be successfully implemented in the private sector as well as in the public sector with a great shortage of staff. Recently, Mr President and Minister, we have witnessed vandalism of historical sites, such as the outdoor sculpture of the Spiritual Centre of the Municipality of Athens, from which propagandas of spirit and art were stolen. Inadequate protection of the sites leads to such social diversion effects. Their security could be entrusted to people who would be subject to this programme. For example, I should like to mention a number of other areas in which this programme could be implemented. Forestry protection, protection of archaeological sites, protection of schools and municipal police could be strengthened. I have read with particular attention what is contained in your statements, as they were published in the press. You will allow me, Minister, to note the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u24	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u25	I shall conclude, Mr President. Besides, I'm last. Your tolerance for a few seconds. One point which needs clarification is the subsidy that the companies will have by employing a subsidised unemployed. Are you referring to an amount other than the unemployment benefit payable and for a period beyond that in which it is received? By also reading the employers' proposals, I note that of their request for the company's subsidy of EUR 14 per day. If this is adopted, it is evading my proposal, as it will be burdening the state budget - you will tell me that you are not forced to follow it all - at a great cost. The aim of the proposal, of course, is not that. I also note that your whole approach concerns only individuals and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. As I said before - and I finished, Mr President - the success of the programme will only be achieved if it is universally implemented in the private and public sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. To thank you also for the good words of the beginning. May I wish 'good year' and say it self-evident, which you have said, that, apart from the necessary consistency, which we must all show - it is a sign of parliamentary ethos - and to be present at questions, we must also consider in the Revision of the Constitution how we could strengthen that. I would also like to say because of the day that what happened yesterday is important. If Mr. Pretender's mathematics is correct yesterday in the newspaper "TAS", fourteen governments were unable to impose legal status on the broadcasting landscape. He's escaping the media. It is a question of democracy, of the rule of law, of dealing with the bad economic relationship and of political interests that we call strife. On the question, of course, I fully acknowledge what you said you were oral and before the question was tabled, Mr President, which we have taken seriously. We had also received proposals from SYRIZA, and they are also oldly formulated positions of the movement of small and medium-sized enterprises, the SSY and the GSE. However, for the reasons you have said, I have no reason but to thank you for submitting the relevant proposals. Why didn't we adopt them to their fullness while we were inspired by your proposals? There is the following danger. Self-evident and, in particular, compulsory conversion of unemployment benefit into a check to be imposed on the employer may create the problem where some businesses - at least those who do not have a good businessman - have no good business - rather than recruiting for time, recycle the unemployed. This has been an attempt to deal with in the past, because you realise that we did not discover the wheel and previous governments have had similar concerns. They had imposed an obligation on the employer to maintain the unemployed person at work for 24 months. However, this was not enough incentives for the employer to go ahead with the unemployed being recycled. Because they were actually subsidised at EUR 4,000 - because that is about the unemployment benefit in the 12-month period - and they had to pay themselves EUR 20,000. The relationship, therefore, stimulus to obligation, especially in times of crisis, did not work. This programme, which has been in place in the past and which has had these characteristics, and it was about ten thousand unemployed, has only covered a thousand jobs, which is very small. Also, while I am absolutely positive about the idea, its transfer to the public has the following issue. Since the EUR 360 on the unemployed has to be supplemented by other things, so that there is full employment and cover for insurance obligations, we have to find resources to enable public undertakings - municipal or public legal persons to take the unemployed - to find the other money they need. I'm absolutely positive again on the idea. But it cannot function with the automation it will operate in the private sector, which the businessman takes out of his pocket plus EUR 360 every month. Taking all these factors into account, we have therefore decided to launch a pilot project, firstly, with ten thousand jobs exclusively in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, because they themselves want aid. It closes hundreds and dozens of such businesses every day because of a lack of response to competition. Why, badly lies, some of the political memorials of the previous periods had this neoliberal feature, to concentrate the economic matter at the top. In other words, the retail trade will dismantle it at the level of the merchant and concentrate it on the top of the malls and the big businesses. So the first intervention we are taking in pilots to see how it works and then introduce corrective actions is for a ten thousand-dollar programme which, as you quite rightly say, grants work and not unemployment, and in line with the progress of this project, we will proceed to an extension - I would also like to see the public sector - to ensure the best possible use of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u29	After thanking you, Minister, and I wish this pilot project, which you intend to start with a complete success and to be the starting point for the unemployed to become active workers, unemployment will be reduced and the functioning of the private and public sectors in the workplace will become more effective and better, I would like to note two things and to close with this. You spoke of full-time work. It could also be partial, Minister, employment. In other words, if we have an unemployed person who has an "h" figure, which is either maintained by this small amount of money or paid for black work - which is seriously harming the State and the state - through tax evasion and tax evasion, it would be better than being unemployed and unemployed - and the word "martial mother of all evils" constantly encounters it - to be a worker, even some workers. This is an observation. As far as the public sector is concerned, I would suggest, alongside the private sector, that you begin a similar pilot project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u30	We give the floor again to Mr Katrugalo. Minister, I'm sure you don't belong to those who believe that last night at 3 o'clock, any complication was going to the place because the decision came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u31	On the contrary. I know, Mr President, that you too are among those who want to deal with this connection between politics and the economy. I simply consider it a very important step. Alas, if we could at one moment disappear so deeply rooted phenomena in the country's political life. I just repeat that we must all - and I acknowledge that in the area of your own party, many are the ones who have the same attitude to us - to work together. I agree with most. Some work I would not like to do in the private sector, because we know that there is a widespread phenomenon of people working for four hours - that is to say, having a four-hour working contract - and working eight, nine and ten hours. We know that from the recent reports by the International Labour Organisation. Contrary to what many believe, the phenomenon of black work is not entirely undeclared, but it concerns semi-declared work, what I described earlier. You actually work eight or ten hours, you get paid for four, and obviously the principal loss is the worker. Such damage, however, also affects the insurance funds. If we move forward - and I say that it is one of the issues that we are considering - using the unemployment benefit for part-time work, that will only be in the public sector. There, above all, because we cannot easily find the additional resource that we would need for full employment. So in the spirit of your thought, I agree. There are some aspects of application that we should look at. First and foremost, I am positive about the first pilot extension and in the public sector under the conditions that I have said. We're still looking at the prerequisites. I thank you, however, and also for the opportunity to develop these views and - I repeat - for the original ideas that were some of the inspirations we had in implementing this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u32	Good. Mr. Minister and Mr. Comrade, why aren't we a lot of people in here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u33	I'm a colleague too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u34	Okay, but today you're in the other capacity. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-02-S1-commons.u35	With the consent of the House at 10.53p. the sitting on Monday, September 5, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions. Let me note that I have been informed that for the seventh time my question about Mr. Kim Glen is postponed because of Mr. Tsakalotou's workload.
