ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 1-4-2016, the minutes of its PR meeting of Friday 1 April 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, in respect of the entire draft law: ‘Organisation and functioning of the Asylum Service, Refugee Authority, Refugee and Identifying Service, establishment of the General Secretariat for Reception, adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29.6.2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Six topical questions will be discussed. Fifteen of them will not be discussed, twelve of them because of the blockade of ministers and three because of the Members of Parliament. The first one under number 708/28-3-2016, first question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Health, on dealing with the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Cause it's the workload. Also, the 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the filing of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The second, with number 716/29-3-2016, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on dealing with the problems of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Readstopoulos, as he will be in Patras. The third, with number 719/29-3-2016, a top-level question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems faced by the cow-farming and dairy sector, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Evangelos Apostolos. Cause it's the workload. The first question under number 709/28-32016 by MP Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegaki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the impact on domestic olive oil production due to the introduction of duty-free olive oil from Tunisia, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostleos. Also, the third with number 689/21-3-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serbs of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the recovery of agricultural aid, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Evangelos Apostleos. The fourth question under number 639/10-3-2016, first question by the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "ELLENIC INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY", is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Evangelos Apostleos. The second under number 718/29-32016, a topical question by the independent MP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the implementation of the work of transporting water from Peninsula to Achaia, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Evangelos Apostolos. The fifth under number 663/15-32016 topical question by the independent MP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the participation of Greek businessman in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to PEGASOS S.A., is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause it's the workload. The number 2919/202/4-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the support of multiple families, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Photos. Cause it's an extraordinary meeting with the Minister of Labour. The first under number 707/28-3-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the role of NGOs in dealing with the refugee and immigration problem, is not discussed as a result of the obstruction of Deputy Minister for Migration Policy Mr. Ioannis Mousala. Because it's a matter of health. The seventh under number 626/7-3-2016 topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems created in the operation of all the social structures and services of the municipalities throughout the country, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. The cause is the misappropriated obligations. The following topical and urgent questions are not being discussed as a result of the inquiries made by the honourable Member: The third, with number 715/29-3-2016, is a top-stage question for the Member of the Commission of the European Parliament on the transfer of the administrative arm of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA) from Heraklion to Athens. The fourth under number 669/15-3-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna in Heraklion Crete. The eighth Question No 573/23-2-2016 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need for more complete information to PPC clients on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u4	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, you have already announced that many timely questions have been cancelled today because of an impediment from the competent ministers. I would like you to give me some time to say two words on my part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u6	Can I give you two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u7	That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u8	I give you the floor because you have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u9	First of all, we must praise the ministers who respond to their constitutional obligation to control Parliament and who are today fortunately three colleagues and, unfortunately, many who are missing. I've asked four questions. Since you are well aware that one of my fellow Members is entitled to this means that it is due to the repeated cancellations of the Ministers. But the problems in hospitals, Mr President, as you well know, are running. The ministers cannot always have a workload without having to deal with the problems which need to be discussed here too. The same applies to the issues of the Ministry of Interior. For the third time Mr Kourublis declared a coma due to an extraordinary or non-experimental appointment. I don't know exactly when he said it. Customs producers - it is the third time that the question tabled by the Democratic Association has been cancelled - are waiting for them to be paid in order to start new cultivation and, of course, the 'ELLENIC INDUSTRY', which is still in place this year or not. Let us not mention the rest. All Members of Parliament are of their own value and importance. I would ask you once again, because we will have to turn against the Bureau, not personally, neither the President nor the Vice-Presidents, but to ask for more pressure on the government. Mr. Voutsis is indeed flexible and consensual. It's a fact. We have also seen this in the Conference of Presidents, but this in relation to parliamentary control is not good. It's negative. There is - and I close with this - this evil with the current government: there is no other Minister from the same Ministry to answer a matter that is not his responsibility. It's never gonna work like this. If there is no cooperation and a response from the Ministry as a whole, which has one, two, three - one, I think it has four - ministers, no parliamentary control or your proposal, which is very important and facilitates the ministers, the ministers must state on the day that they wish to exercise parliamentary control and do not have any other obligations either in the morning or in the evening and parliamentary scrutiny for this Minister is carried out. We must find a way, in any case, for this House to function. Parliament's control is not overdue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. As you know, Mr Kegeroglu, I have proposed to the Conference of Presidents that the ministers be appointed one day to allow questions to be raised about the relevant Minister and to come to his day to answer. I have proposed this and it is expected to be adopted in some way. There is no other way to force the Minister to come by force to the House, as you know. We begin with the second with number 717/29-3-2016 topical question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on the financing and restoration of a provincial road in Skopelos. The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will answer Mr Chryssovelonis. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, it is known that the island of Skopelos on 22 September and 23 September 2015 was affected by floods that caused huge damage to the forest, rural, municipal, provincial road network of the island. At the same time, there were disasters in the municipality's infrastructure, sports facilities, the municipal stadium and the closed gym. A large part of the harbor sunk into the sea. Hundreds of homes have been flooded, as well as hundreds of businesses have suffered even total destruction. Farms became lakes, destroying crops. Cars and boats were lost in the mudwaters and in the harbor that he boasted. The disasters that have taken place, let us say, Minister, were not the fatal result of a bad weather, but the natural consequence of a policy followed by all the governments so far, within the framework of the European Union, which subjugates the lives and collective interests of our people in the laws of profit. It is therefore the result of the policy that it does not consider eligible and has no resources to design, study and build the necessary anti-military and anti-Semitism projects, at the same time as provocative funding is provided to large business groups and window projects. The responsibilities of today's SYRIZA - ANEL Government that continues and implements this policy are enormous. Madam Minister, although the Skopelos region has been declared in an emergency state since October 2015 and recently, two thirds of the island, in a flooded area, the state has been missing provocatively. Let us say that nothing so far has been restored. Businessmen with their own money try to heal their wounds, as well as the island's residents to heal damage to their homes and homes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me one more minute. I think I have three minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u12	You've got two minutes, Mr. Steeriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. For example, although more than six months have passed since the flood, the only provincial road linking the municipal communities of Skopelos, Klima and Language, as well as the coastal settlements - you know, because you are from the area - has been cut in two and still today that we speak unaccountable, with everything that this implies for the operation of the island. The affliction and financial burden of the inhabitants, because they are forced to make the entire round of the island in order to communicate, but also for the tourist season that starts directly, in fifteen days. Also, Skopelos - you know that - is 80% pine-fed. Now starts anti-nuclear protection. So the non-genus in a fire will be impossible access to fire-fighting vehicles to suppress it. For the project, therefore, of the rehabilitation of the provincial network, a study was carried out by the Region of Thessaly, which was submitted to your Ministry in October 2015, a budget of 1.750,000 euros. For all this, Minister, we had tabled a question to your Ministries in September 2015, which we will be tabling in the Minutes. You ask, Minister: what immediate measures is the government going to take to finance the restoration of the road network so as to restore normality in the island's road traffic? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to say that I am very pleased that, with this question, which you are addressing our Ministry, I am given the opportunity to highlight and prove the reflexes of the government and, therefore, of our Ministry in matters of natural disasters and damage recovery, the immediateness of which some - you will also - have obviously forgotten. Admittedly, the floods on September 22 and 23, 2015 on the island of Skopelos left behind very large disasters and wounds. I agree with the description you made a moment ago. Immediately, therefore, the response from the side of the coup d'état was first the mission of the Army's Joint Reconstruction Machine Group, the so-called "MOMA", which went to Skopelos Island by direct command of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos, in order to take an active role and action, in accordance with his objective. A few days later, Skopelos visited the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, along with the Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Kammenos for an inspection, shortly after the end of the exercise of MODELs in the area of Alexandroupolis. Immediately, of course, it was also the reaction of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr. Spirtzi, who was on the island two days after the catastrophic events, because precisely our Ministry and we personally recognised the seriousness and intensity of the damage caused. The emphasis given by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks was shown by a series of actions, which were carried out without any delay, thus proving that the Ministry and the Government in general do not separate public works according to the business groups that promote them - such as you, Mr.Police, insinuate your question - but our priority is those projects that are necessary to improve and restore the infrastructures of the region and the inhabitants of each region. In particular, our Ministry carried out the following actions: At the request of the Municipality of Skopelos on 23-11-2015, which asked for its funding to cover the damage caused by the floods, the Secretary-General of Infrastructure Mr. Dessos ordered 8-12-2015 to carry out an immediate autopsy with the relevant officials. The above-mentioned autopsy shall be conducted on 11-12-2015 and a relevant report shall be drawn up. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I would like a little more time, Mr President, for the completeness of the answer. Then, on 17-12-2015, a funding of 500,000 euros is approved in the Municipality of Skopelos under Protocol No 5937 of our Ministry of Road Infrastructure to cover expenditure relating to the restoration of damage from the floods on the road network of the Municipality of Skopelos, the Regional Unit of Northern Sporades in the Region of Thessaly. With this decision, the above EUR 500,000 has already been allocated to the Municipality of Skopelos. Of all the above, therefore, but also of what I will add to my dentistry, in order not to exceed time, it is clear that within just twenty days of the Skopelos Municipality's request, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks fully and fully responded. That is why, Mr Papoutsis, I would advise you, when giving some suggestions like those you read in your question, to be more careful. In my dentistry, so as not to exceed time, I will add the other actions, which of course concern anti-military works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Steeriou, here, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you mentioned visits by Prime Minister, Mr Kammenos as Minister of National Defence, MOMA, Mr Spirtzi, and self-confidence that took place and recorded the damage. Madam Minister, I would like to tell you that I went to Skopelos a week ago and saw that the damage remains open by 95%, as was created in September 2015. Because, indeed, Minister, we may also be seen by the inhabitants of the island from the Canal of Parliament, but also by the institutions, I assume that your answer to my prototype does not only satisfy them - or at all, I would say - but let me say, Madam Minister, with all due respect to you, that it is probably annoying them. Madam Minister, the institutions and residents of the island have actually witnessed the visits you mentioned, and the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence, as well as the other government officials who went after the floods on the island. But, Minister, the heavy statements made following their visit to the island for immediate restoration of disasters and compensation to residents and entrepreneurs come - let me say - to truly verify the popular song, which says: 'the false words, the great words'. I don't know, but where did you see that the damages and wounds of the island have been restored? Because, as I mentioned in my protology, and as I found out a week ago that I went to the island and as reported by all the actors and residents of the island, you have done almost nothing to prevent it being disinfected. The sum of EUR 500,000 that you mentioned in your prototype I don't know if it means anything. So you come here today to make the meat fish and repeat the same false promises, which you had previously given to the inhabitants of the island. Madam Minister, you are a government and you are responsible for restoring damage. We want you to tell us in particular why you did not tell us: The provincial road that connects Skopelos to the language and Klima, which you know very well that it has been cut and is no longer transported from there and in twenty days the tourist season begins, will be ready? Will it be financed according to the regional study for the new tourist season? Will the affected residents and businessmen of the island be compensated for the damage they suffered, as well as all the infrastructure of the island, sports and others? Madam Minister, we speak politically and say clearly that the policy that you are implementing serves and finances large capital and does not at all satisfy the people's needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So, for our part, because again here you will tell us that you are doing things and miracles, we call on the Skoppelian people to demand racing, through their collective bodies and in coordination with the people's movement to resolve the acute problems they face on the island. At the same time, we call on him to condemn your policy, which creates these huge problems in Skopelos today and throughout the country and to co-operate with the JRC's policy to see really a white day. I am waiting, Minister, for you to tell us in particular what you will do to restore the provincial road network in the Skopelos - Clima - Language section. Thank you again for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u18	Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u19	Your Honor, you have not listened to me. I told you that this amount was transferred from our Ministry's side. From that point on, it is not the Ministry's responsibility to carry out these projects. From there on, the municipality is responsible and you know what the process is. Of course, the Ministry was not limited as you mentioned in visits, but in very specific actions. I must tell you that the Ministry is in complete cooperation with both the municipality and with the Region of Thessaly. So I continue by saying that our work as a Ministry has not been completed only by the transfer of this amount but our Ministry, in particular the Department of Anti-Military Works of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure, provided EUR 18-12-2015 credit of a million, including the cost of VAT, with its Protocol No 1487 decision at the expense of the budget of the numerical project, with information 2014SEP57200002IT specific provision of the PPC 572 titled "Promotion of Anti-Military Protection Works" for the construction of the project - Studies and projects for the Anti-Military Protection of the Municipality of Skopelos. In this decision the amount of one million has already been allocated to the Municipality of Skopelos for the purpose that I mentioned at the beginning of my position. Furthermore, following a recommendation from the Directorate for Restoration of Natural Disasters, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the number 4356 KHS of the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economics, Development and Tourism, Economics, Transport and Network Infrastructure, which demarcates the affected areas of Skopelos, on the other hand, the provision of housing aid for restoring the damage to buildings by the abovementioned floods. Finally, I would like to remind you that it was tabled on 18-2-2016 by the Region of Thessaly on a technical project report on the restoration of damage from the natural disaster on the coast and the provincial road Skopelos, a proposed budget of EUR 1790,000, which will also be included in the Public Investment Program 2016, i.e. in May 2016, this will happen. It is a sum which, as you well understand, is not at all inappropriate if one takes into account the resources of the Ministry and the requests of other actors for membership of the EDP. Of course, I would like to say to you, Mr Metten, that for all the documents I have already mentioned, there are relevant correspondence from the Ministry with the Municipality of Skopelos - which, of course, whenever you wish, is at your disposal and can be operated by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u20	When will the road be, Minister? That's what you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Economics, Development and Tourism, Foreign Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Environment and Energy and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights have today tabled 4-2016 draft laws: 1. ‘Creating the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part’. 4. ‘Preparation of the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Parliament also requested permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7-4-2016 to 11-4-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u22	The House approved the requested permission. We continue with the first with number 706/28-3-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the question of the reciprocity of the resources received by the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Simplifications (TAF) from the Medieval City of Rhodes in relation to the obligation to implement conservation and promotion projects of the monument. The Minister will answer Mr Baltas. Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, Mr President, I had to protest to the President of the National Representation about the impossibility for Members of the Greek Parliament to discuss issues of topical and important importance to the National Representation concerning questions relating to governmental factors. But today I am pleased - and I must say this - that Mr Baltas, despite the first postponement of this question, is here, and I welcome him and Mr Kegeroglu, who is here to answer a very important issue - both topical and important, Mr President - and, in his second capacity as a professor at the University, particularly at the Polytechnic University, will be able to better understand from everyone here the issues relating to the compensation of resources to the Archaeological Resources Fund. In relation to the monuments and property of the fund in the Medieval City of Rhodes, you know, Minister, that this monument is very important, not only for Rhodes and for Dodecanese, but also for Greece in general, since it is a monument of global cultural heritage, as UNESCO has classified in its relevant monuments. Unfortunately, however, this dimension is not understandable many times and self-evident from governmental factors over time and it is not your responsibility alone. There are given and recorded needs, whether for infrastructure networks, for monuments, for buildings, or for walls which collapse, or for projects that are not all done at the moment, Minister. I would like to say attributes, Mr President, that more than a million euros are receipts from the Palace of the Great Magistros. You know that, Mr President, and you too are very well. The revenues from the museum of Rhodes are 400,000 euros and over annually. And you know, these revenues could return to the medieval city of Rhodes in a form of a programming contract between the Ministry between the South Aegean Region and the Municipality of Rhodes - as it has been in the past, Minister, and you know it very well, Melina Mercouri had done huge work in this - and so the municipality in this poor economic situation - the government is passing its worst times - so in the wear of time that these very important buildings of the monument are not delivered, but projects, which are literally falling apart. You know, like in Rhodes, and in the rest of the Dodecanese there is a feeling that the principle of recompense is not given by the Ministry of Culture. Because I want to be fair, it's not your responsibility alone. I want to say two points: I stress that the Fund has in its management a forty-forty-forty real estate in the medieval city and, based on the 2013 figures, received from the management of these real estates over 360,000 euros, for the two-forty-one real estate. Something is wrong, Minister: either there is no proper management or there are charismatic rentals in buildings that have been given to some and we need to know about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I would like to ask the following questions: do you think that the principle of compensation is being respected? Should you decide boldly now to make a programme contract between the Municipality and the Region? How many leases are there from the hundred forty-one real estate? Mr President, we do not know any data from 2014 and 2015 on these properties, but it seems to be extremely low the collection from these properties, when the medieval city of Rhodes is characterised as high in terms of entrepreneurship and commercial value. Where's that money, Minister? I think you can tell us very briefly and the prospect of what will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Consola, for your timely question, because it gives us the opportunity to discuss a very big issue concerning our cultural heritage and its exploitation as a whole. Let me say that I fully agree with you. Obviously, the medieval castle of Rhodes is one of the very important monuments of our entire country and obviously we all need to do our best to maintain, improve its conditions of visitation at all levels, become more widely known, drag more visitors and have the corresponding revenues. Let me just tell you that the principle of reciprocity is not such a simple matter, in relation to such monuments, because the country is united, as you know, the country has a multitude of cultural treasures. During my brief term in the Ministry of Culture, I note that, wherever I press, there is an important monument, whether ancient Greek, prehistoric, classical or medieval, etc., and for various reasons, concerning the complex course - let alone - of the country as a whole, not everything has been exploited in the same way. If we had a principle of recompense, the monument would be in danger of having only coarse resources where monuments are or happened to be or should be more familiar. For example, if we held such a principle, the Acropolis and all the surrounding areas, which gather about 1/3 of the revenues of the Archaeological Resources Fund, would all go to the Municipality of Athens, perhaps much less to some surrounding municipalities, without the possibility of other regions of the country helping to create similar monuments, so that they too can gain the visitability that is relevant to their importance. From there on, we obviously need a whole - let us say that - policy on the promotion of monuments and archaeological sites, their maintenance and exploitation. And that's exactly what the Archaeological Resources Fund is trying to do. He is a legal person governed by public law, while his new administration is trying by all means to improve pathogens of decades and all material. On another occasion, we talked about the online ticket and the check of tickets coming from the online ticket. At the moment, of course, it is not very clear about all the revenues that come where they go or how much must be and so on. Because you mentioned and numbered and all the numbers are helping, I would like to say very specifically this: from the monuments of Rhodes in total over the last two years, we have received EUR 6,859,000 in 2014, and in 2015 around EUR 6,104,600 in 2015. That is the big point you raised. I would also like to remind you that the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Simplifications has a double duty, if I may say so. One task is precisely the expropriations, so that monuments can be made and the people who happened to own such treasures can be paid for. On the other hand, with a sense of responsibility, let us say this, at the total value of the country at the legacy level, it has the task of financing as much as it can of the Ministry's inventions and similar bodies, so that it is precisely the revenues that come from the country as a whole. If there's any need for algorithms, we can see them again. However, we cannot adopt a returning principle as a whole for these monuments. In my denture, I'm going to say a few things about the rents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Consola, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very sincerely, Mr Minister, for you have quite rightly acknowledged that there is no principle of recompense for the monuments of Rhodes, the Dodecanese. However, Minister, I imagine that you too in your subconscious understand that all Greece is a Greece with enormous cultural heritage. But not all the places are the same. We have to come to an agreement to admit that. And I imagine it's something you understand. I must also accept that a large part of the two hundred forty - about two hundred fifty properties - manages the fund in the medieval city of Rhodes. And it's a town, Minister, it's not walls. You said before that it's a medieval castle. But it's not a castle. It is the only medieval city in the world that lives, operates, translates and produces wealth. Therefore, in addition to these, the two hundred forty - one real estate in the medieval city needs maintenance work, because they collapse. You told me before - and I thank you - that in 2014 and 2015 revenues amounted to more than 6,000 000. We are talking about a huge amount, Mr President. Of this, Minister, how many returning to the city? What has happened all these years in this direction? What funds have been made available for maintenance projects? Please come to Rhodes. I imagine you will accept the invitation today. Besides, we're in a public debate. And you know, whatever you've given - because I don't know how much you've given - it's very little for what Rhodes, the medieval city, deserves. We also need to make it clear here whether the revenues from the forty-forty-one real estate are satisfactory. It's not, Minister! Won't the Ministry seek responsibility for any contracts signed? In the Minutes, Mr President, I will only present them - although I have a full file - from the newspaper 'Kathimerini' and the local newspapers talking about rents of EUR 15 per month for real estate of the EDF. That's incomprehensible! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Minister, who decided and on what conditions for the contracts for these properties? Isn't there a need for an immediate review of these properties? Shouldn't there be a strategic recovery plan? You quite rightly said - and I am glad you said this with disarmament sincerely - that there must be another framework for strategic development, within the framework of another cultural policy by the Ministry. But you have to tell us what this policy is. Minister, this fund cannot function in terms of the past. It manages the receipts from a hundred and eighty archaeological sites and it cannot be accurate for these archaeological sites. If we consider this to be your reference, there should finally be a balance sheet. Mr. President, do you know what's going on so far? There is an estimate containing approximate data and there is no balance sheet at the fund on an annual basis. This requires a change in the organisation and the philosophy of management of the Archaeological Resources Fund. As you said - and I am pleased about this - Mr Minister, there must also be staffing with necessary staff, with skills contributing to the development of this revenue. Speaking of which you said that part of this revenue goes back to the Inquiries of Antiquities in Rhodes, I want you to know that the invasions are literally upright in the interests of the conscience of these officials who have for their city. The Services are subordinated, there are no archaeologists, there are no people who contribute to the excavations, no maintenance. So I invite you, since you recognize this, to soon announce recruitments for the Antiquities Industries in Rhodes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Obviously, I recognize the passions and difficulties of the country. I imagine that you too will recognize that it is not our time-consuming responsibility for the passions and sufferings of the country. We're trying to do everything we can. So far, as far as recruitment is concerned, things have been difficult. In particular, for the EDF, the situation we have received was such that there is no possibility of regular balance sheet and accountability, that it should be addressed to external accounting offices in order to be able to do its job. Now we have a new organization. Through the new organisation, positions can be called so that people can go there with appropriate qualifications, because neither do they currently exist, so that the whole system of RTD, which is a mechanism to produce wealth for the country, because of the archaeological treasure, can work better. Our policy in relation to the EDF is complex. She is trying to take account of all these dimensions you mentioned. I come to the last point, because my time is running out. You are quite right about the fact that the property lease situation is about tragic. It's not just about Rhodes. It is about a variety of public property, which, over time, from previous governments or with their tolerance - as you say - a God knows where. So the revenues, which could be much larger than the total buildings, stores and houses, which we have as the property of the Greek State, are not used as much as we should. At the moment at the Ministry there is an attempt to systematically record the properties, to record their deterioration, to draw up an indicative budget for their restoration and, of course, to find ways to make use of the building, not possibly building, as if we were random brokers, but possibly with synergies between uses, depending on the buildings. There's still some indicative numbers. Let me tell you that the active property leases in Rhodes are two hundred nineteen. It's a hundred and sixty-three houses and fifty stores with income. There is already a relatively important issue here - if it is allowed to combine the words'relative' and 'important' - increase. In 2014 revenues were EUR 351,000 from all of these real estates. In 2015, of the 351 000, we reached 454 000, which shows exactly some more control over what we received as leases or uses and how we are trying to rationalise these leases and uses. I repeat that the same problem concerns Plaka and a set of cities in the country, where, for historical reasons, the Ministry of Culture has such buildings that it leases. We are trying as much as we can systematically do to improve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u30	However, Mr Balta, a visit to Rhodes has promised you, to see the collapse of buildings as well as the monuments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u31	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u32	Remember the National Theatre. I think something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have accepted the invitation to come to Rhodes and to me and the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. We continue with the second with number 713/29-3-2016 timely question of first-round question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Finance, on the chains of charges for the prices of goods and services from the planned increase in excise duty and in particular the excise duty on oil. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Government for its own reasons has chosen the new deficits created after 2015 in the country to cover them through overtaxation, increased taxes, contributions, new taxes and, of course, reductions - from what we read - in pensions and other earnings of workers. What we do not see is addressing many still dark sides of the state that continue to exist and concern not only non-completion of efforts that had begun in previous years but also new phenomena, which unfortunately are said to be operating in this period. And one of the new phenomena - to get through to this issue - is what the Head of the Potamius denounced concerning Mr Paradise. It has to do with this specific complaint about Mr Kammenos and the management of the money relating to the refugee. I have so far not seen any initiative by the Ministry or by the justice system to check whether a party leader, a parliamentary party, is standing or not. I don't adopt anything. But I mention it as a fact, as well as the inertia that exists. Minister, the increases - since it is true that you are planning this - on the excise duty on fuel and especially on oil, as you can see, will have a negative impact on the economy as a whole. They will increase business costs, increase product production costs, ultimately increase the cost of living in our country. However, they will also reduce the competitiveness of our economy, as expressed by the competitiveness of the products and services provided by Greek businesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why I would say that you need to tell us today if there is indeed a planning and discussion in the 5.4 billion measures to include increases in the excise fuel tax. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, we often criticise the ministers that we do not come to answer all the questions and that we are inconsistent with our obligations. I came here today to answer your question and amazed to read it again at the time you were talking, why did you put in more questions that were not in the question? I imagine that's a common parliamentary practice. In your dentistry, please, tell us what integration of efforts into the Treasury is left in the middle? Because we have a list that will take two hours to tell you what we've done, about what our predecessors left in the middle. You also referred to your question, which is to the Ministry of Finance, on the issue of excise duty on oil, on issues relating to refugees' hospitality phenomena relating to the Ministry of Justice. I'm a little confused. Although I'm young in parliamentary customs, I'll find out about this slowly. But as far as the substance and content of your question are concerned, I shall refer to two separate things. On the issue of negotiations, as I have informed with complete responsibility and seriousness in the debate on the last bill we had, on the directive and on the Committee on Economic Affairs, it will not be responsible for a government - it has never been done - to come here and inform a step - what is being discussed in the negotiations. We would have no negotiations then, we would have an open conference or a plenary or a conference. It would have been such a thing. We don't have that. There are very tough negotiations, and then you understand the latest developments, what pressure this government is undergoing and how it can achieve the best results for the country through these pressures. So, as far as the issue of excise duty and the increases, which you say in your question, I cannot say anything about either this or any other measure, because what is being discussed in the negotiations is not possible to come here and start leaking or commenting. We can neither confirm nor deny anything. In this sense, do not hurry to adopt what you usually reproduce or reproduce from specific media, because they are not usually confirmed. And we've got too many cases of tax announcements from various 20 a.m. cards that haven't been confirmed. As far as the other point is concerned, I have said it before, but you are insisting. I'll make it clear again and thank you for giving me the opportunity. For 2016, traffic charges were collected. That's the end of this story. All that "philogy" that existed and said that we would increase the traffic charges or put carpets, was not confirmed. The reality has shown that with a small-target energy - because we did not have the time and political opportunity for something bigger - we managed to do more fair and proportionate traffic charges for 2016, that is to say collect more traffic charges than those in the budget and more cars to get signs than they took last year. As far as 2017 is concerned, very early, since March 2016, we have set up an Inter-Governmental Committee from all the relevant Ministries, which examines the entire grid of car taxation, whether it relates to car taxes or to uninsured cars, KTEOs, documents relating to cars, luxury taxes, car taxation. All this will be reviewed in a timely manner, in cooperation with market operators and social actors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u39	Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I will not criticise the content of your speech. However, I shall return to the questions. The question is clear, in writing: Do you really intend to increase the excise duty on fuel and, in particular, on diesel, for the reasons you will end up doing so? And the second question, which is directly related to the first: Have you measured the chain effects and increases in the prices of goods and services that this decision will have? I assume, Minister, because you have not told us today that this is a red line for you, you are discussing it. In other words, you are discussing excise increases. Otherwise, if it was another matter you would tell me 'but what are you talking about'? If I asked you, "Are you thinking about increasing the end of marriage?" Would you tell me, "What are you talking about? Where did you find it?’ But here you have come to say about the excise duty on fuel that it is in the negotiation. Very well. Since they are in the negotiation, you have measured the cost of the economy, the new recession that will create, the impact on family income, and if this count and documentation help you to say "No gentlemen, we will not make a special increase in the excise duty on fuel and in particular we will not make oil. If we have to do something, we will also have to reduce gasoline." What for? Because, Minister, I see from a table published by the newspaper 'Kathemerini' - I think it is internationally known - it is not a privilege of secret information or of intercept - that, for example, in Spain, unlead is in 0,46 and about 0,36 as we are. In Greece, unleaded is 0.367 and oil 0.33; in Luxembourg, unleaded is 0.46 and oil 0.33. So when you say about equilibrium in certain discussions - and we are asking if they are true - this should be downwards, Minister, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy. Under no circumstances do oil put it in the conversation to increase upwards. It's not only about people who took oil cars IX lately. They're a charge. The major negative impact, which will exist in the economy, will be on transport, on product production, on the economy as a whole. This will, as we have said, be passed on to price increases, to people's cost of living and to the reduction of competitiveness, which is one thing to be able to bring income out of the country by increasing exports. That's the conversation. Now the rest, the trade unions, I would ask you to leave them for another debate, which will not be so crucial to the economy and every citizen. What do I mean by integration? That he had started with n. 4093 an effort. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Unfortunately, it seems that it has stayed to the stations with the input-outs system. That's where she's staying. I don't know if it's completed at all stages of traffic. Honestly, I don't know. I think that this is what is needed in order to catch a sum that is from smuggling. You had it figured out. Not you personally. If I remember Mr Lafazani here, in the House, he told us that it was about 4 billion a year, the loss of fuel smuggling. In fact, we hope to complete this system or any other system chosen by the government, but to choose it, move it forward, complete it, so that we have this gain. I do not believe that these are the amounts, but in any case I would mention on the basis of what figures there was a picture that there were in the past period and we had to hit it. We need to complete this whole system and catch from there, as we used to call it, the revenue required, the smuggling of tobacco and everything else. They're open issues. That is what I meant when I said 'what you mean is left in the middle'. It has only been left for the operators, the retail, the input-output system, as if they were making the smuggling or, if you want, that a single agent can do it. He can't do it alone, even if we assume he is. So let us know about the questions and, if you want, and for this system of combating smuggling, at what stage is its completion. Of course, I think the Ministry of Economy is involved, but you're also responsible for this. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u42	Your Honor, in the logical leaps you have made in your speech I cannot follow you, that is to say, in your argument that it is not reasonable and serious that a Minister should come here and say that in the negotiation we ask for the first, (b), (c), (d) we have agreed on the second and the second. What in charge of the Minister of Finance would he be coming to do something like this here? The framework for the negotiation is clear. These are the laws that you have voted on, too, No.4334 and No.4336, which, I would remind you, provide for tax increases. That's what you voted on. In any case, I understand the differentiation, but because the Minister cannot answer the content of the negotiation, so indirectly confirms that the a, b, c, tax includes these are reasonable leaps to which I cannot follow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u43	You want a psychiatrist!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u44	Please do not write the holidays in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u45	So, as far as taxation is concerned, do not rush. Negotiation is going on hard for us, but not all of these teratologicals that we have heard and what you usually say will be confirmed. We cannot go into the logic that, because we are not talking about this tax, then the other tax will come about, which has nothing to do with reality. I will remind you of what you have said about unrealistic rents and what has happened after all. You haven't been confirmed. I am impressed by your insistence that we do not complete the efforts that have started in previous years. Finally, there must be an answer for the previous years in this Chamber at some point. What's happened since 2010, Lagard? Will you ever answer this question? I'm guessing you don't want to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u46	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u47	What are you going to do about this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u48	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u49	Calm down, calm down. You don't have to worry. Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u50	You're welcome. Minister, don't ask questions because matters are being raised in response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u51	Well, he will then be able to answer the honourable Member. I'm not going to ask another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u52	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u53	The political issue, therefore, with regard to the integration of efforts...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u54	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u55	On whether I want a psychiatrist or not, thank you very much, Your Honor. I am sorry for your parliamentary morality, if you are using such phrases, but I understand why you are doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u56	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u57	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u58	As far as the completion of our efforts on the issue of fuels is concerned, specific things are needed. You passed laws in previous years, and weirdly left them in the middle, and we were the ones who made decisions on full access for auditors to bank accounts. The law was passed and it remained curiously unsolved. We were the ones who made ministerial decisions on GPS on fuel transfer, on input-output systems throughout traffic. The working group on molecular tracers is finished and we're on our way. The political response must be given to this Chamber: why had all this been voted on over the past few years and no ministerial decisions on implementation came out? These and thank you for your medical advice!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much. We move to the third with number 657/15-3-2016 topical question of the Attiki Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilos to the Minister of Health, on the plan to address the health needs of refugees in Idomeni. The Minister will answer Mr. Xanthos. Please, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is now known to everyone that the situation is dramatic, not only in the camps but also in the surrounding societies that exist from Idomen to Piraeus and the islands throughout Greece. And the dangers are multiple. The health risks - you know them better than I do - are serious. They concern first of all the population of refugees and migrants themselves, the miserable health conditions in which they live and the extreme incidents, namely having birth in the mud and unfortunately also having cases of infectious diseases. On the one hand, Minister, there is indeed an excess of humanity and solidarity, which the Greek people show in every way. It is demonstrated by the staff of the ERC first and foremost, who are making heroic efforts, by the people who in practice act within the camps, various bodies and non-governmental organisations and, I think, by the entire Greek people. However, you know very well - and we have recently had many and conflicting phenomena - that there is a part of the population which, precisely because there is a risk of health and safety, is being taken by it and the situation is exacerbated, so that there is a risk of solidarity, where hatred, racism, xenophobia and a multiple risk arises. My original question, Mr President, was three weeks ago. It is still a matter of time. It's all about the Identity camp on one hand. I saw the answer you gave to Congressman Kilkis. I specifically ask you: What has happened to the General Hospital of Kilkis, where is the nearest Idolated? The second question I ask you, Minister, is what is the plan? Because you knew, Minister, that the government would increase the flow. Indeed, the government itself has, unfortunately, already since the beginning of 2015, opened the door and partly caused it. Because it is Europe's fault, but it is not the time, and I am not asking about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, given that you were aware of the flows, what is your plan to deal with the health problem, epidemiologically, in coordination with the municipalities, with the regions? Mr President, I thank you for your tolerance to this first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Before replying, Minister, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-seven students and apprentices and two educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u62	Madam Colleague, we have had this debate several times. We have answered two other topical questions precisely with this object. The refugee - immigration issue is a huge challenge both for our country and for all of Europe. The refugee issue has changed. Last year, our country was a transit country. Eight hundred and fifty thousand people have passed without special problems in the sanitary piece. This year we have a new development. There is an environment where a significant number of refugees will remain in the country for a long time. So we have to organise their health care more systematically. Until the previous period, what was done was a bold sanitary check on hot spots - at the points of the first reception. There was a separation of the incidents that were needed, whether urgent or more specific, such as pregnant women. The problem has been and remains at this time in areas where there are no organised camps, which are not well-formed landscapes on the roof, the accommodation, the conditions of individual hygiene for people living there. This is mainly about Idomeni and the ports, particularly Piraeus. We have said many times that the health dimension of the refugee problem rather at this stage is the least important, in the sense that the emphasis must be on improving people's living conditions and personal hygiene. This is also the best prevention measure, the best risk prevention measure. There are risks, when thousands of people live together and even under very poor conditions, that there should be favourable ground for infections, epidemics, etc. I think, then, that we should place emphasis on this field in the next period. The Ministry has, from the beginning, done, I think, a fairly serious coordination. It has entrusted operational responsibility and central coordination to the National Health Operations Centre. Under the umbrella of the EMCDDA, the EMCDDA is coordinated, which is the service that has been imposed on the crossings of migrants and refugees in public health structures. We've got AEMY involved, which is a public limited company that has health personnel and operates mainly at the port of Piraeus. There are primary care doctors who, under the responsibility of the health regions, assist in the efforts of Macedonia, the wider area of Idomeni, the surrounding settlements, as well as the Piraeus and the Greek region. Of course, there is also a whole range of non-governmental organisations, certified humanitarian organisations that are highly skilled and experienced in this field, solidarity citizens, social doctors, medical associations. Throughout this range of people there is currently central coordination from the Ministry. We do not believe that the view that the state is absent is true. What I can say and I think that we will agree on this, is that when a state, even the most organized, has to manage such a major humanitarian crisis, it will always show inadequacies and weaknesses. This new phase in which the refugee question was found, I think, imposed and led to an accelerated process of better coordination. The Army played a very crucial role in organising the camps, in their good function, in their good food supply, in organising health care. We always need a lot of assistance to achieve the best possible result. What we have also organised is a systematic epidemiological check. Epidemiological surveillance has it. There is a document which will be applied in the next few months to all health-care establishments, where there will be a record of all cases of infections. Every day there will be this report. There will be an alert mechanism, if cases of epidemic infections are detected that want to be treated immediately. Whenever they have been in the past, because there have been sporadic cases and hepatitis A and wind turbulence, there has been timely intervention, there has been epidemiological monitoring, isolated cases, appropriate vaccinations have been taken, hospitalised for those who need to be hospitalized, and we have generally managed not to disperse the population, who lived in the area. I think, therefore, that the health dimension of the problem is generally managed at this stage, but in so far as these areas are not evacuated, especially Idomen, in so far as Piraeus is not decommissioned, which is obviously not viable as living spaces of so many people, there will always be a risk. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We, therefore, develop surveillance and coordination at a better level. We have contributions from the National Committee for Vaccines to become universal in the child population. We agree with the most experts and the most experienced in the country. We have opened a channel of communication with the European Infection Control Centre, the ECDC, will also be coming experts next week. There's provision to serve public structures. We have appointed a hundred and forty doctors, nurses, rescuers on the Aegean islands through a special programme of the European Union. There is also a corresponding programme, which we have now requested to finance, which concerns the health coverage of the camps in the mainland through a special European fund again. We are strengthening public structures with rapid-diagnostic laboratory equipment, rapid test, rapid diagnosis of certain infectious diseases that may occur. We are also strengthening public health laboratories. We put control mechanisms on public health inspectors and on the Ministry and on the regions to monitor if the hygiene conditions in the camps are complied with in relation to drinking water, in relation to the distribution of food and its maintenance, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u63	Please, Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are also trying to train health ombudsmen, who are necessary at this stage to facilitate the approach of the refugee, immigration population with the people of the state, with the people of non-governmental organisations and to facilitate their service to public structures. So I think there has been quite a considerable effort. Apparently, he needs constant vigilance. Of course, the solution is to stop staying in particular in areas where there are no organised camps and to be persuaded to be transferred to more organised areas and areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u65	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously the dimension of public health and the living conditions of these people are as important as the medical care to be done and the preventive tests. However, I will ask you - I have listened carefully - to become a little more specific in your dentistry. Minister, you mentioned here in the House that you would first send five doctors to Kilkis Hospital to help the team that helps Idomen, and at some point the local population, our Greek fellow citizens and they should have health services. I would like to ask you whether this has been done and if you intend to further increase with the programs you mentioned to me and to what extent the potential of the hospital unit in Kilkis? Since you said that you are discussing with the 4th Office for the Better allocation of funds between hospitals in the health region, I would like to ask you whether this has been done if the budget of the General Hospital of Kilkis has been increased and how. I'll be back in general now. Minister, I have two decisions here. I can submit them to the Minutes, Mr President. One is yours, Mr. Xanthi, on 16/3 and the other is Mr. Polakis on 23/3. One concerns the establishment of a coordination centre for the Ministry of Health and, as you said, the appointment, as you said, of the EMCDDA for coordination and of all the bodies acting sanitaryly in refugee matters. The other is the respective decision of the Deputy Minister for Coordination. First observation. Is it possible that we have known for many months now and experience the dramatic increase in flows and, on 16 March, there will be a ministerial decision, in general terms, the first ministerial decision to simply coordinate the EMCDDA? So I ask you in particular, on the basis of your decision, Minister, and I warmly welcome a concrete answer: you say in there that you are deciding, that the EMCDDA appoints coordinators in the areas that have been mentioned and cooperates with the stakeholders you mentioned - the EMCDDA, the CEDEFOP, the AEMY etc. - not to be far behind. Have these coordinators been designated? Secondly, you say that you will organise a single epidemiological surveillance and control system. You say 'you will' on 16 March. Is this a single system organized? Is there today? I wish you could tell me there is. What I know is that Mr. Paulakis has appointed the Ministry of Health, the relevant officials of the Ministry of Health and the President of the Ministry of Health as Commander of the EMCDDA and there is this coordinating centre. There's nothing else right now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, a little tolerance, please. Minister, I also want you to tell me if the CCTB does statistical checks. I do not want to refer to particular illnesses. We all understand the reason and I don't expect that from you. I would, however, like you to provide me with statistical data on the checks carried out in the last few months at the premises that are either informal camps or organised camps. I would also like to ask you, because you mentioned that local government has taken the initiative, who will coordinate, beyond the agencies of the Ministry of Health. Because we say it's from the state. But many responsibilities - for example those relating to prevention - belong to regional and local authorities. Recently we had a case. He saw the light of publicity in the case of mold in food in Idomeni. It is obviously a question - what you mentioned most - living conditions. I'm in love, too. Are there any checks on NGOs? By whom, how many and when? This should be able to form it, coordinate it together as a state. When we say no state, be specific. I am therefore waiting, Minister, for specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u67	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u68	First, epidemiological surveillance is systematically carried out by the CEDEFOP. From now on, we will have a special report on a daily basis, supplemented by the health coordinators present at each camp.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u69	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u70	Apply, it's ready. I'll submit it to the Minutes. We've got the paper ready. It's processed. We had a meeting in the Ministry with people and the National School of Public Health and the special postgraduate department of the University of Athens, which deals with the management of health crises and infectious epidemiologists, who have entrusted them with the responsibility for systematic epidemiological surveillance. We will also get know-how from the respective European centre within the next few days. The CDC of America will also come to have an image and a mood of cooperation with the authorities of our country. There is an Alert system, alarm if cases are detected. The EMCDDA and, of course, the Ministry are directly informed and appropriate intervention is made. Whenever there was a problem in the past, the intervention was done and it did not measure the problem. Imagine that at the moment we have over fifty thousand people, part of whom - more than fifteen to twenty thousand - live in unorganised areas in Piraeus and Idomen. Now for Kilkis Hospital, which I had the opportunity to visit personally. I went to Idomeni, I went to the hospital, the Polykastro Health Center, to all the settlements in the area, we talked to the human resources. Health workers, indeed, offer excellent services right now. They have been pressed, there is fatigue, there is a burden, but the availability of supply and solidarity is very important and of course, as you have quite rightly identified, this climate exists in society as a whole. Of course, we also need to create a sense of security for workers in the health system, but above all in the local communities, so that this humanity and solidarity dowry that exists in our country is not turned into a backdrop and that there is no favourable ground for xenophobic and racist hysteria. I therefore believe that there is coordination with the interventions that are being made. First of all, at the moment, there are coordinators from the EMCDDA in the three large spaces, in Piraeus, in the Greek and we have also designated the office of EMCDDA in northern Greece, which has two people, don't imagine it's no luxurious office. The doctor, who is a member of the EMCDDA, is responsible for the health coordination of all central Macedonia. Almost daily is in Idomeni. There is a need for cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Most of them have accepted and supplement the epidemiological bulletins and are informed when they identify themselves, with their people, problems and cases. There is therefore a sense of good cooperation. Pharmaceutical adequacy, I think it's very good. We don't miss drugs at this stage. What is missing is an organized healthcare unit at each camp, covering 24/7. Here, in Piraeus and in Greek, this has been achieved with the help of many actors and stakeholders. There is a detailed programme, on a daily basis, which says which organisations undertake to cover which shifts, which the EMCDDA monitors and coordinates. And, of course, the EKT is available when there are problems. At this time, precisely because we are in another phase, as we have said before, people have not realised the new data, there are tensions in the camps, there are incidents and this creates additional burdens and needs and health. As far as Kilkis Hospital specifically is concerned, I said it there when we met, firstly it has increased by EUR 400,000 directly from the total budget of the Ministry. We have no problem with a low budget in general at this time in hospitals. We are at the beginning of the year and the mandate has been given to the Ministry to implement the budget at 100%. To cover both the 3rd and the 4th RCDs, we have increased distributions. It is 17.82% more budget in the 3rd RCF and 22.59% in the 4th RCF. The problem of human resources is the big issue. There, then, the Ministry at this stage makes a management of the guilt. By decision of the commander of the 4th RSU, six pediatricians were moved from Thessaloniki and the wider area, who update and assist the only pediatrician left at the Kilkis Hospital. Therefore, childcare coverage is sufficient, because today there is an overpaid of beds. With eighteen available beds, more than thirty children are usually treated. As was done for the islands by means of the notice I told you, through CEDEFOP, these days were selected and will be placed immediately nine doctors and twelve nurses, again via CEDEFOP, who will be available to cover, in particular, these large hospitality areas which are Idomeni and Piraeus. Also, what we have done in the notices of the next period, whether for permanent or subsidiary staff, is that we have given a special emphasis to the Kilkis Hospital. I referred to the hospital as well. It's eight other auxiliary staff. The call came out a few days ago. In the next two thousand four hundred forty places across Greece we have four doctors and five other staff. We have also planned the recruitment of eight subsidiary doctors. The two have already been hired. A total of twenty-five places for this hospital. I think it is sufficient at this stage to support human resources. Of course, if there are any needs from the extended stay of people in the wider region, we can see the whole planning. Unfortunately, the Ministry does not have any human resources available at any time. We do a management of the bodies through the human potential of the health system either primary or hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u71	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I think that this is how we have so far ensured that the refugee problem has not become a public health problem. And you can be sure that we will not allow it to happen, precisely because we believe that we must give an image both within our country and in Europe that we, a country in budgetary supervision, bankrupt, with multiple problems, can manage with sensitivity, with humanity, dignity and in terms of public health this huge problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Gymnasium, Part II - Section I - was previously - Ierapetra Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the sixth question under number 628/7-32016 in the second question of the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the "prohibition of the speech of the Metropolitan Laureate and the Mediterranean", Mr. Nicolaou, in the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki. In the timely question, Mr. Friends will answer. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I see that the government's misguided anti-parliamentary practice is continuing and insisting on the question of replying to parliamentary scrutiny. From twenty-one questions, today I see six answers. The present, Mr Philis, thankfully, has accepted a second postponement to come to discuss this. I just want to say it once again. I won't get tired of saying it. It is not the government's discretion to present the presence in parliamentary control. It is not 'if you like it'. It is a fundamental prerogative of Parliament and you must therefore come. And thank God, the ministerial arrangement is overcrowded, which means there are ministers, Deputys, State Secretarys. There is no need for the Minister to come himself if he has such an argument. Someone else can answer from the Ministry. But it is not possible for this Parliament to be contemptuous. So it has caused me - to come to the point of question - a particular impression of your particular behaviour. It is about a certain moment, and that was even close to the time point in the question. It matters and when you answer each question. This question has been tabled since 07-03 and we now have 04-04. Therefore, you answer a month after what he wants to elect. The apprenticeship council of the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki has therefore invited Metropolitan Mesogeias and Laureate Mr Nikolaos to speak in the course of the Religious Course on bioethics issues. And the important thing, Mr President, and Mr Philly, is that he has in the same high school last year a speech by another distinguished scientist, again on such issues, not bioethics but astrophysics and ontology, and indeed Mr Nanopoulou, who was atheistic. So Mr. Nanopoulou spoke last year. The students wanting to hear the Altera pars, on the other hand, want to hear Nicholas. Who's Nikolaus? A metropolitan? Oh, no. She is a doctor in bioethics, she has a degree from NASA, she has studies in Astrophysics, she is one of the most enlightened clergymen we have. I hope that this will not be called into question because I have seen that you have formulated it in this respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u75	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u76	We do not have a scientific case like this. Be careful, the process is fully respected. He is being asked for by the school board, approved by the teachers of counsellors and Physics and Religious Affairs, approved by the school's directorate, approved by secondary school and, as I am told, there is a document approved by the Ministry of Education on 4/11. And then the school manager receives a phone call from the Ministry, which forbids this speech. And, of course, everyone is surprised that this whole process has been followed, that there has been a position of the Ministry, and they wonder why this enlightened clergyman cannot be addressed to the students to talk about this issue. They tell me - I don't know, it's an elephant - that the answer was one of the various obviously'reds' of the Ministry: 'Because it wears rassa'. So I ask: why did this happen and what is the Ministry's position on the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u77	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vorides, first of all, so that there are no false impressions. In October 2015, the competent Department of the Ministry received a document from the Secondary Education of Eastern Thessaloniki concerning the request of the General School of Thessaloniki to visit and speak by Metropolitan Mesogeia and Laureate Mr. Hadjikolaos Nikolaos at this school on 21-12-2015, before Christmas. No reference was made to the request to include this speech in one of the courses in the timetable. I stress it, no mention of it being in the classroom of Religiouss. The import licence was granted in writing on 4 November. However, the approved speech did not take place. I stress that Mr Hatzinikolau was given permission to speak because there was no mention of the fact that there would be a lesson in Religious or Bioethics or anything else at school. Following oral communication, the authorities informed the Department of Secondary Education that the above-mentioned metropolitan was to visit again in the 15th High School of Thessaloniki on 25 February without having submitted, within a reasonable period of time, a request for entry permits for that date from the school address. And as I realized just now, there was a requirement for this speech to be included in the course. I inform you that the school, the cosmic, democratic school in the country, cannot give a lesson, i.e. tutoring, to any third party, who is not an educator. Evidently, after the postponement of the first event - which had been authorized by the Ministry - if that were the claim, that is to say in the Religious Class - the Ministry did not, although it was not - and I repeat - give a specific request, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, for permission to be granted. I stress that. Events should be held in schools, except in teaching time and on the basis of the responsibility of the Ministry's teachers and services. No objections. But schools, the teaching programme, are not going to be transformed into a one-way or other-way market. The public school is responsible for the contents of the courses. It cannot grant this constitutional, the responsibility conferred by the Constitution, this politically legitimized responsibility for its operation to any third party outside school. If we start to give this responsibility, it requires, in my opinion, things that I do not think you too would be sure to sign. One Mr. Hajikolaou, one, the other Mr. I'm not assimilating, but everyone's post doesn't mean it gives him the opportunity to enter and learn in school. The lesson is the professor's job as part of the school's program. The other function turns school into a market, which enables everyone to say what they want - respectably what they want - and at the same time even sell some things. I am not talking about this, but we also have such issues, namely trying to turn the school into an open shop. No, we can't accept that. There are rules on proper schooling, and school needs to be open, because open school means a democratic school, a socially revived one. And, of course, Mr Hatzinikolau, you mentioned earlier, and others have the right to come to school and talk to children, apart from teaching, at events organised by the teachers' associations, outside teaching hours. I am clear about that and it concerns everyone. Because otherwise, I repeat, everyone will want to replace or even monitor the teachers. And that's what we witnessed. He was a metropolitan who, for seven consecutive weeks each Thursday, went to schools in his area to speak in the class of Religious with the theologian. Nor is that tolerable, i.e. the surveillance of teachers by extra-educational factors. The school, I repeat, is a secular and public school, and there is no way that the constitution and the orderly state have delegated to the school system, from the teachers' club to the Ministry of Education. That is our view. Open school yes, but under rules, which do not violate its proper functioning. And one last thing. We're about a month before the lessons are finished. The tests are on May 16th. After Easter there's no school. Actually, we have three more weeks of lessons. Is it possible for these last few days, this last month, to start losing course hours to do events? Oh, no. Does there have to be a programming time and a spread of events from the beginning of the year to some point in time? Sure. I repeat and stress: Open, democratic and socially revived school, but not at the expense of courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. Mr. Vorides has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Woe, then, you! Hypocrite and Pharisee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u81	The "single" with a height of or with a hem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u82	As written when we say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u83	How do you say that? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u84	Here, then, hypocrisy is revealed, because in your phrases "worldly democratic school" worldly for you is clear from two things: Firstly, from the constitutional requirement that Greece has a sovereign religion and in this Constitution you swear. You don't like it, you're changing. At the moment we have. Secondly, there is a constitutional obligation to cultivate national and religious conscience. Not religious, not in general information about religions, but culture of religious conscience, for precisely we have prevailing religion. Until the Constitution is changed, the duty of the Ministry to which you head is to do these. But listen, because hypocrisy is too much. Because the problem, obviously, with the speech of the metropolitan, was that the children would lose, in the light of the examinations, an hour of religious time. The question of their adequacy and training! They'd be listening for an hour to a great scientist, but the Ministry was worried about it, and it's not going well for the exams! Do you have the same sensitivity to the occupants that don't lose an hour, but do they lose weeks? Did you take care of the same dedication and get lost an hour of education? Do you have that sensitivity to her you're accustomed to? But listen to the other one. It was - it said - integrated into the curriculum. Question: What changed from the first leave to the second? What changed from your first 'yes', which you confessed to, to the second that you refused? What you were asked for the first time, which you said 'yes', the same time you were asked for the second time, which you said 'no'. It was not that the first time you were told 'outside the educational programme' and you said 'yes' and the second time you were told 'within an educational programme' and you said 'no'. And the first time they asked you, as they asked you to, and the second time they asked you to do so, in exactly the same way. What's going on? Let me tell you what he's been through. Intervened by your party, I say again by your'reds' who protested the presence of clergymen in schools. This started with the issue of New Ionia, to which you referred, and then took the ball and the Metropolitan Laureate, because that was your general trend. The rest of what does it have to do with it? If it's traded. Who's trading? Is there anyone who's trading? If he's watching. What's he supervising? What kind of surveillance? Was there, then, someone who intervened in the way one practiced his teaching or instructional duties and fought him or noticed him or motivated him? Did we have such an incident to raise this issue? Finally - to understand this, to say one you like - if a distinguished Marxist economist, who is fashionable, said Picketty, told you that he wants to come in and talk about economics in a school in the course of finances, would you have the same reaction or would you tell us about open school, about the movement of ideas and about the enlightened spirit of that particular one? You have an army and you are committed to this one. But that's not your role and that's not the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Vorides has today become accustomed, as I understand it, to reports that alter the spirit of the New Testament. I would not like to start reports of the 'bugs' and so on. I will, however, remain on the substance of the issues that we are addressing. Indeed, there is a dominant religion in our country. I am aware of this that there is a debate between constitutionalists, if I had to do so with an accreditation, namely that the vast majority of citizens believe in Orthodoxy or it has to do with regulation, that we have a state religion. I leave this, however, because it is a matter of constitutional review rather than of our debate today. I come to the matter of national and religious conscience. Mr. Hatzinikolau, where exactly is he coming in? National or religious conscience, when he was going to learn about bioethics, as you said? I don't see where. When we talk about national conscience and religious conscience, we do not mean proselytism, we do not mean catechistically, we mean a presentation of the phenomenon of religion, a presentation of Orthodox religion, of course, which is the top of today in terms of faith in our country - no objection - the cultural contexts of Orthodoxy and not catechical, dogmatic and homologous lessons. That is our view and not just ours. I would remind you that Mrs Giannakou, Minister of Education in 2005, your party, although you were probably not in the New Democracy at that time, you will hear it, but it's okay, you will tolerate it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u87	As a historical reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u88	So I say that Mrs Giannakou banned confessions in schools. Do you think he banned them by violating the constitution that says about prevailing religion? Oh, no. Because Mrs Giannakou and all the people, all the politicians in the Ministry of Education, we have a start. The principle that school is neutral, secular, democratic, is not religiously submissive. Of course, Orthodoxy must be taught, but not by entering high priests and priests in schools. There are educational theologians, who, based on the timeline, will teach religious. Is that what we can understand? Why, otherwise, not only will Mr Pickettie, but others, with less scientific scope, ask to enter schools and then what schools are we going to have? There's a question. Open school, yes, but with rules of democracy. That is why there are the relevant management bodies of schools, there is the Institute for Educational Policy, which will define the conditions under which one can go to events, but away, I repeat, from the timetable for teaching. One last matter. You said and write here, you are allegedly asking me - 'white you!', as you said earlier - if we have decided to prosecute our educational system for those wearing rabies. Oh, no. Rasha wears a lot of teachers, teachers. We honor them. Theologians, philologists, are some mathematicians, I think. We honor them. Alas, if the rasso makes a ban! The main thing is another. Those who are teachers with any doubt in school, what programme do they do? The Ministry of Education, even a curriculum, let it not be a particular too much or everyone enters there and finds people and does their preaching? This is a crucial issue. If we do not respond to this issue, I fear that we will not be serious about upgrading education in our country. I conclude with this: Open school, yes, but it is not possible to assume that the operation of the school will be without rules. Finally, I'm telling you Mr. Hatzinikolau was not prevented. We gave him permission, but he didn't go. The second time the school did not submit a written request, but an oral request. From what I saw, if what I understood in your speech is true, an oral one to justify Mr. Hatzinikolaou's presence in the course. That would not be acceptable. I'm clear. The first time there was no such request. It was an event. To go talk at the event, no objections, and Mr. Hatzinikolau and anyone judged by the teachers' club that he can offer something. The second time there is no written request, I say it again, within a reasonable period of time, as there should be, and there is an oral claim, from what I understand from you, to teach. Well, we do not want to see such phenomena which, in our view, undermine these phenomena - I am not referring to this fact, I am speaking more generally - the functioning of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too, Mr. Philly. We conclude with the fourth question, number 710/28-3-2016, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Union of Centres, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the risk of delaying the implementation of the EU-Turkey Agreement on Refugee and Migration, due to lengthy judicial proceedings on asylum and subsidiary international protection. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. It cannot be disputed, Minister, that in this year the crisis in immigration - refugee - will have an impact on both the burden and the functioning of the courts. Why do we say that? For the reason that both the Geneva Convention and European directives and internal legislation in the event of an application for asylum provide for the final degree of legal action. This is also guaranteed by human rights and it cannot be said that there will be a different viewpoint. What prompted me to put my question forward is this: I found that, at least since 2002, refugees, migrants, then - we had little knowledge of the concept of a refugee, but we had the concept of an immigrant in Greece - had the right to apply for annulment, with the legislation of immigration, which meant a great burden on the courts and a long delay. Why am I saying that? The Minister may know better than I do. An application for annulment is a luxurious procedure, which is normally addressed to a higher court, the Administrative Court of Appeal. An appeal shall be lodged before the Council of State and shall not apply the procedural rules of the Code of Administrative Procedure, but the procedure before the Council of State, in which the phenomenon arises as a result of aggregation of cases as a result of a burden, to deferral and delay in the adoption of decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a bit of your tolerance because I want to raise this issue. This, then, results in this year, if legislation is maintained, if the existing procedural rules are maintained, we have the following parameters: It is a given that the vast majority of those who have come to Greece before 20 March 2016 and are not subject to either the European agreement or the readmission agreement between Greece and Turkey will apply for asylum, whether they are entitled or not, in order to remain in Greece, because they all have the objective of finding themselves in the north of Europe. It'll be the only way to give them the right to stay. There are procedural rules giving the right to stay. The Minister obviously knows and I don't need to develop them. This, then, combined with the fact that we already have flows after 20-3-2016 means that, in so far as the agreement on Greece - Turkey and the European Union - is not implemented, asylum requests will again be examined and brought to the courts. Statistics alone I say this: On Saturday morning I watched ERT and her correspondent said what? He said that of the two thousand seven hundred immigrants - refugees - it was not clear about their status - who were on Saturday morning in Lesvos, the one thousand nine hundred have declared that they will seek asylum. There were non-governmental organizations, there were lawyers who directed them. In this sense, therefore, it does not clarify the fact, because in the end all these disputes will be brought to the courts. They will no longer be refugees, because they will be rejected. It is a given case, because it will not be possible for those who have been recognised, designated, but it will not enable this regime to be made clear, to see what we are going to do anyway. That is why I asked the question. I put it to Mr. Paradise's mind. I note that, on Friday, with Article 64, we have voted again to bring an action before the Administrative Court for asylum. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Carras, Mr Karras, your remarks are based on a very early study, of course, of the new issues that have arisen from the agreement, which have now been specialised and reflected in Law No4375, which we have just voted on, and I think that for a long time it will require a study, because it is a text which requires a combination of knowledge of administrative law and purely procedural knowledge, which is not always simple. I would say in an initial response to your reservations, your fears, but the difficulties that will arise in implementing the new agreement do not seem to be so due to the internal difficulties of the Greek procedural system. We could not have had an application for annulment. She's all predicted. You said it yourself. We anticipate it, too. She's still there. So the problem isn't that much there. We would have a greater problem if, because of a secondary crisis or for any other crisis, we would have burdened administrative justice with substantive judgments, which are more time-consuming, more difficult and, of course, are still followed by applications for cancellation. Since, it seems, the appeal is being made in cases of cancellation, we have nothing but the burden of the problems, which in any case exists without a particular burden. There is a likelihood that some implementation complications will arise, but which seem to be more dependent on choices and developments that concern Turkey. Will Turkey adapt to the standards which allow us to call it a first host country or a third safe country for applications either in Syria or in the rest of the refugees? The response will depend both on the number of suspensions and the course of Greek administrative justice. Bypassing, however, the problem of Turkey's difficulties, I would say that we of course have the possibility of having a burden on the Greek administrative procedure. However, I think that the fact that we are confined to cancellation problems will not lead to a major problem. We could not have tried to support the solution to the problem in limiting the time to lift the misconduct, since the deadline for the exercise of an entrepreneurial instrument is, however, a restriction on the right to legal protection, which is there and therefore the restriction must be reasonable and leave room for a reasonable reaction to the citizen. I would also say that the withdrawals of applications for cancellation will not have an automatic suspensory effect, which leads to an assessment of certain conditions. As I have said before, I think that, particularly if we have a solution on Turkey's part, the flow will be satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Mr. Carras, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, as far as asylum is concerned, neither I nor anyone can deny that it demonstrates the level of a country's culture and safeguards individual rights. But you will allow me to comment on the representative of the views - which I respect - of Mr Paradise. We incorporated Directive 201332 yesterday - from there I took the thoughts - and made it internally legal with some adjustments. I would like to remind you, therefore, that this directive provides for unambiguous appeals to the asylum committees. You know, Minister, that, when we speak of a case, we mean a press and substance check. It does not provide for legal proceedings to be brought before the parties. The same Directive in Article 46 states that Member States shall ensure that applicants have the right to bring an action before the competent courts. In order to comply with the requirements laid down in paragraph 1, the Member States shall ensure that the effective application ensures a complete and ex-nunc examination of both the real and legal issues, in particular in the case of..., etc. I'm not going to get into the litigation. In other words, the directive itself leads us to incorporate it into the concept of an application for annulment, because I would like to say that the application for annulment, as I have said before, has been deferred automatically. I have experience of how they are tried in the Administrative Appeals and the Council of State. We are waiting after the sixth - seventh postponement, so that the rapporteur's report can be submitted. The directive itself provides us with a way out of the way to have substantial actions. So, what would I say without reducing the rights of refugees - migrants, without slugging the deadlines, which are needed for appealing to a court? It has the potential for the state to change to substantial, Mr Minister, the appeals for refusal, so that the debate does not depend on the will of the court, i.e. whether the report has been submitted in good time or not. The report shall not, as you know, be submitted to the Court of First Instance. So let's go to the level of the Administrative Court, go to the Single Administrative Court and do something so that we don't violate the Constitution. As you know, it is not constitutionally ensured and guaranteed to exercise wrongful means. It is sufficient to provide the possibility of effective action and judicial protection. In that sense, I propose that - directly, if possible, in order to unload the higher courts - a right to effective appeal, no legal remedies or, if any, to restrict themselves to exceptional cases, such as the Council of State where there is no caselaw. Unfortunately, I said this yesterday to the House - and I end with this, Mr President - the second five-year period of the 1990-2000, where the administrative courts were dealing with requests for temporary order of thousands that had come back at the time. We have lived through the delay in tax disputes that have not been dealt with, and I still have to say that they are being delayed, but that is not the case at present. In this sense, if my proposal is accepted, we will also have active and effective protection for refugees, in cases where their application is refused, but these people insist on having legal protection in order to obtain refugee status and on the other hand we will have unloaded the highest courts. We will have given the opportunity to stand trial and not to be automatically postponed, and we will have ensured that all the guarantees, such as the Geneva Convention, the Greek Constitution and the directives, are respected, because Europe itself accepts - and it is a matter of urgency that we have a question in the future - effective action rather than an application for annulment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. Mr. Paradisepoulou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr Carras, what you have said is extremely complex and extremely complex. It is not just so that someone can give a simple answer to these issues. For example, I have a fear that the system you are proposing would lead to greater complexity, as it would affect the courts and in real judgments, in substance, as you call them. This would require a special education of the administrative judges in relation to asylum matters, which I think is not at the moment, because so far these crises have been directed to the institutions of the administration, to the institutions of the asylum committees. I fear that the system you are proposing would impose on administrative justice, on issues of substance, but also difficult to resolve, which require more time-consuming procedures. That is why my first reaction to the thoughts you are talking about here today was that it requires more study of what you are proposing, and yet, I am very sceptical about the possibility of our procedure being accepted immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. At the end of this question, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-04-S1-commons.u98	With the consent of the House at 19.15 minutes, the sitting on Thursday, April 7, 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
