ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 10 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the reduction of the cost of crossing the bridge of Charilaos Trikoupis. 3. Mr Diamantos Manolakou, Minister for Health, raised question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Diamantos Manolakou, about the intensified operational problems in the anti-cancer hospital "METAXA". 4. The question asked by the Member of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the delay in examining and recognising the professional equivalence of qualifications by the Council for the recognition of professional qualifications. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 955/7-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the clarifications concerning the status of use of milk powder in the manufacture of Greek yoghurt. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the problems of nursery and childcare stations. 3. O by No 967-7-6-2016 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy about the strike of the port workers at the Piraeus Port Organisation (PO). 4. The question by number 953/6-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance about the costs of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector. 5. The Question No 901/24-5-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the problems of issuing visas for Russian tourists. 6. The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidos of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia. 8. The Question No 936/31-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the unacceptable and dangerous conditions of "friendly" refugee in Koutsochochero Larissa. 9. The question by No 928/30-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the strengthening of the mission and the economic position of resin growers for the benefit of the forest and the national economy. 10. The Question No 934/31-5-2016 by Independent MP from Athens Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance regarding the suspension of the extended time limit for customs C' and F' Piraeus. 11. The question under number 896/23-5-2016 was raised by MP Mr. I Piraeus, of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the course of the audit of the participants' supporting documents in the tender for the recruitment of five-year-old firefighters. 12. The Question No 897/23-5-2016 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the intentions of the Ministry to restore the Patras Scientific Park under the supervision of the Institute of Technology and Research. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under number 891/23-5-2016, a topical question by the Independent MP II of Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathi) Panagouli to the Minister of State, on the "private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about measures to relieve the affected in the Municipality of Ierapetra from the destructive fire and the proclamation of the region as a fireman. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Eves) Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical institutions of the Eleusina General Hospital of Thriasio. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fourth under number 940/31-5-2016 topical question of the second parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefidou, to the Minister of Finance, on the taxation of undeclared rents 2015 in relation to the continuing abstention of lawyers. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We had this debate on unreserved rents and civil tax exemption in this Chamber about two months ago. On 6 April I tabled a timely question in the light of the continuing abstention of lawyers and asked then to be informed about the actions of your Ministry. In the debate which took place on 18 April, therefore, I proposed as a solution - which can simplify and speed up the process - and speed up the submission, together with the tax declaration, of the copy of the extrajudicial declaration to the wager. The position of the Ministry was positive. I then submitted this proposal in writing on 21 April. As far as I know to date, the Ministry has not dealt with the matter and no formal notice has been made and on 30 June the deadline for the submission of tax declarations expires. I consider the Ministry's position positive and its intention not to burden exhausted tax citizens. You know this as I do that the lawyers have given the opportunity to submit the application for rents, and so does the tax office request the copy of the document rather than the action. But what has not solved the problem and because you know it and want to simplify the situation and not add any more problems, I would like you to inform us of the solution you are proposing, because there are 15 working days left until the end of the deadline for submitting income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, because by questioning you are giving a great deal of help to the work of the Ministry of Finance as regards the initial indication of this issue. However, I would also like to thank you very sincerely for the letter you sent out with the proposals, because it shows how the parliamentary procedure can work, when on the Members' side there are concrete proposals on these issues. As far as the specific issue you are concerned is concerned, you give us the opportunity in your question, to inform the citizens that by a decision taken by the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Association - I came down from the Athens Bar Association's site yesterday on this announcement - the actions are excluded from the abstention of lawyers. In other words, no licence is required for the lodging of such pipelines. So in this way, the problem is solved, but in order not to confuse the citizens, I want to be clear as to what needs to be done. Because you are right and initially in your question and now in your letter, you raise the matter. The taxpayers can now lodge their tax declaration. They must, however, before they deposit the tax declaration - not after the submission - go to a lawyer and file a claim for unrealised rents, go to tax for a net copy of that claim and immediately thereafter proceed to deposit the tax declaration. So the matter has been resolved from a point of view of procedure in relation to the abstention of lawyers. No license is required for this action by the lawyers. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the citizens must run and testify to the tax declarations. There aren't many days left. We have had problems at the beginning, but now the pace of tax declarations has improved very much. We are about 43% of tax returns. From where we were at the twenty - thirty thousand per day, we have reached the hundred ten thousand statements per day. But this must be increased. We have been working with accountants and we are in constant communication. I urge people on this occasion to plan and end this loose end. They don't have to leave it for the last few days, where we've probably had problems - you have work experience on this subject - whether electronics or others. Let the citizens run so that this loose ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I think your position is clear. But let me tell you that what you are finally proposing as a solution is not a solution. Why am I saying that? Because in fact, in the fortnight, it is a very short time and within this very short time, the citizen has to find a lawyer, the lawyer has to file the complaint, the deposit note has to be paid by the lawyer and there must be a service by a judicial curator. Do you know practically what it means? That there will be tails outside of legal offices and the citizen, plus the suffering of the entire process, will also have a financial burden which he has had, as you have said, will be around EUR 300 to 500. Because he has to pay his lawyer, the deposit note and the court curator. So in the short time that there will be tails, hustlers and whoever has had time to catch up. On the one hand the lawyers after a long period of abstention will have a little work to do, so we are a little amplified by their own economic situation. But the citizen is being charged and I would say that he is disproportionately burdened. That is why as long as there is time, I want you to rethink the solution that I have put back to you. It simplifys the situation, provides legal certainty, and it is not the citizen at all, because the extrajudicial which I actually propose does not need the lawyer's partnership. It is a simple request that the citizen can only testify. I therefore believe that we are getting the people out of too much stress and a considerable financial burden. The copy of the extrajudicial declaration along with the citizens' tax declaration will also give our fellow Greeks a way out of the way, but also to the Greek citizen, who have had enough trouble with taxation, with running and anguish, so that he can respond. I can only remind you that the state of these people expects growth, jobs and revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u8	I shall fully agree, Mrs Kefalidou, that the citizens have been deeply troubled by our tax policy and we do not need to trouble them with procedural and other problems, which we should solve otherwise. The law, however, is clear and imposes on us this process, as to how the unrealistic rents will be declared. We are, of course, looking at and we will consider your proposal and we will follow the matter closely. But we cannot change the law and we will have problems with the lawyers if we go as the Ministry of Finance and say that we do not need the lawyer's intervention to do this. I see on the lawyer's site that from 16 May to 24 May - this has, of course, been extended - lawyers have been allowed to file these actions without permission from the lawyers. So there was the previous year. Probably we, as the Ministry of Finance, have to communicate more and inform the world. We are looking at what you have said and thank you again for the original proposal and the present one and we will see how we deal with it. For the moment, what I want to say to the citizens is that they have to run to settle these loose ends. In relation to unrelenting rents, you remember what happened here at the end of 2015, a great political debate, about not imposing on citizens money that they actually did not collect and would be their income. This solution has been given. The citizens must move forward, settle these loose ends, and the Ministry of Finance will monitor the issue and deal with it. What I want to say about the date is that we are not planning 2016 to become that in 2015, that is, with continuous extensions, we are going to take the tax declarations by October. The tax declarations must be brought to an end immediately, so that the winding-up of the ENPI can immediately begin. If all this happens at a smooth pace, we will also have a smooth distribution of tax burdens in the year. If we leave them at the last minute and gather all over the last few months of the year, we will have the known problems again and do not want the citizens to have these deadlocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u11	Exceptionally, you'll get him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. An unprecedented event occurs in parliamentary times. There is one issue that concerns public opinion and topicality very much. The Medical Association of Athens has filed a complaint against the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, on the subject of the competition for the recruitment of intensive care units for CEDEFOP, there has been a decision by the Deputy Minister of Health to replace the Board of Directors of CEDEFOP and the President of CEDEFOP because of the events that followed, a complaint has been filed by members of the Democratic Association against Mr. Polakis, a lawsuit by officials of the New Democracy, as well as by me personally. It is a matter of time-consuming questions in this House. To that end, I tabled a time and a half ago a question to the relevant Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis. In the context of parliamentary control, it is reasonable for Members to have a time management. And, indeed, the Minister can once - and I have been second, it is rare - to invoke a workload and avoid being present in the House. Mr Paulakis, this morning he refuses his presence in Parliament for the fifth time, beyond any previous parliamentary procedure. Mr Paulakis may not be aware that the presence of the ministers in the House in the parliamentary procedure, Mr President, is not optional in nature, the Minister does not voluntarily come here to serve the constitutional requirements of parliamentary control. But that is not enough, Mr President, but something more incredible has happened. During my brief absence in America, where for a week the question was not retabled, because I was missing after having informed the competent service of the House, Mr. Paulakis began to post Facebook postings mocking that Georgiadis was afraid and withdrew the question. When I came back from America of course, I announced the relevant response from the committee on parliamentary scrutiny that I had never withdrawn the question and retabled the question for the fifth time today. Instead, Mr President, the Minister should come and answer me, because I learned today that he is invoking a workload, and that he was on facebook last night a mandarin to advertise why he is not in Parliament, because he says he is from Crete and does what he likes and writes the House in the oldest parts of his shoes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Georgiadis,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u14	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u15	Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u16	I would like to mention the following fact. I've contacted Mr. Voutsi too. Things are very serious here. Or the President of Parliament will assume his responsibilities and ask Mr Polakis to respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and finally come to Parliament and to reply to a Member who is legally guaranteed the right to parliamentary scrutiny or indeed, Minister and I am pleased...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Georgiadis, you cannot give up on the President of Parliament, who repeatedly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u18	Of course I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u19	You can't. You really don't have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u20	The President of Parliament can intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u21	The President of Parliament has repeatedly said and called on the ministers to be consistent with their obligations in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, the President of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u23	So I gave you the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u24	...who I especially respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u25	And I say that Mr. Paulakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, the President of this House, whom I respect and accept - I sincerely say this - is the person in charge of explaining to Mr Polakis that he does not volunteer here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u27	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u28	And if he doesn't want to come to the House to tell the MPs to resign from the Minister. If he is unworthy of carrying out his duties to resign from Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u29	I gave you the floor, but don't abuse! Please! Exceptionally, I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, but I am indeed eight years in Parliament and such derogatory behaviour as a minister in Parliament's institutions I have never known as Mr Polakis's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u31	You're welcome. I would like to say this because there are still questions from colleagues to Mr Polakis, such as Mr Katsaniotis on the EKAV in mountain Achaia, such as Mr Moraitis on the CT scanner in Arta and Mr Stelios from the Communist Party on the need to prevent and support Volos cancers, that he will come to answer. As far as the rest is concerned, it looks like you're both seen as social media users. You can end them from there or complicate them further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u33	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Georgiadis, on the point of point...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u35	It's not about the substance, it's about the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u36	Watch out. On the substance of the matter we have no problem and no difficulty in discussing as political leadership the case of a body which is currently - and I think this is a common consciousness - has become an orbit of operational, administrative, institutional and management resolution. Presenters of Jerusalem know very well that there was opacity and heterocracy and a customer system there. That's what it turns out to be. There are checks, there are findings, there are references to justice. So I think we have no political difficulty in discussing this issue and the manipulations that have taken place. On the subject of procedure, the briefing I had yesterday was that the Deputy Minister will come today to answer your current question. I haven't had any new information since. I agree that there must be consistency. I understand that from this point of view many times there are real difficulties in responding to a large number of questions. Especially because there are real difficulties in the health sector, there is indeed interest in parliamentary control. I think it can be handled. I don't think there's much to be. I think he can, in consultation the next...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u37	Minister, five times I've testified it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u38	I wouldn't have had a personal problem answering myself if I had been prepared in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u39	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u40	Series is the sixth under number 949/6-2016 timely question by MP Larissa of the River, Konstantinos Barriotas, on the non-implementation of the anti-smoking law. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u41	Good morning. In the support of what Mr Georgiadis said, I would like to state that I have the record. There are six continuing refusals by Mr Polakis to answer a question which has not been discussed at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u42	Come on, Mr. Barriotta. We've exhausted that matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u43	Excuse me, Mr. President. We haven't exhausted the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u44	Go ahead to your point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u45	This is a very serious issue, which is constantly relapsing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u46	Mr Barriott, please proceed to your point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u47	In Georgiadis "you stand suza".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Kegeroglu, this is over. We gave him the floor exceptionally. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u49	It's your Barriot now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u50	But it's not my fault, Mr. Barriot. I'm saying that to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u51	I don't need a lawyer. I note that time has passed and I will ask for it. Smoking is an epidemic, along with the traffic, of unnecessary real deaths in Greece. I don't think I need to argue, Minister. It's known. For the records only, I will say that one in four deaths in people over thirty-five years of age is linked to smoking. Respiratory and cardiovascular diseases have aggressive growth in Greece because of them. The cost of smoking in health systems is estimated to exceed 1.5% of GDP. In Greece, during the crisis, it is EUR 3.5 billion a year, when diabetes costs just EUR 2.3 billion. It's a very, very bad habit both at personal and social level. Unfortunately, Greece is free, although there is an institutional framework for banning smoking in closed and public places. In other words, there is an anti-smoking law that is being passed periodically. The last time was in 2010. It's Mr.3868. It has never been implemented, not only because the implementation framework and the control mechanisms it provides are extremely problematic, to the extent that they are not actually working, but mainly because there has never been a political will and a social response. There's too poor information. So there is total impunity and smoking, unfortunately, is allowed everywhere. It is allowed in Parliament, perhaps here outside, as we have seen many times. Even allowed in hospital rooms, as you know, with the devastating effects that this has. No one seems to be interested in the health, which I pointed out at the outset, nor in the defection of the legal order, which implies the fact that the uniform body of order supposedly applying the law smokes where the Member who voted for the law is forbidden to smoke publicly on camera. I think it's very serious. Your Government, in the last seventeen months - which you do not say a few more - has taken no positive action in favour of banning smoking, and the question is whether you will take any measures to implement Law 3868 and whether you will carry out any information campaign. I would also like to ask whether the information and statements made by Mr Bascozu are true that a new law is pending. Is a new law imminent, and why? What should be changed in the institutional framework, beyond its application? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u52	The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, this is a crucial, serious issue and there is indeed a deficit in law. I understand that the approach taken by a doctor is very critical. Scientific documentation exists, it is undeniable. The literature has proved, without any doubting this, that smoking is a major risk factor and a huge and serious public health problem. But you know very well that the application of the anti-smoking law, of Law No.3868, is not just a matter of a ministry and, in particular, of the Ministry of Health, which does not even have the possibility of the audit mechanism, which can impose fines, monitor extensively, detect infringement and stop impunity. We need inter-ministerial cooperation and, above all, I think, what is needed is a change of social awareness. Let me say that, after a long period of inactivity in this matter, we will very soon have the opportunity to ratify the 2014 European tobacco directive - which is ready at the moment, it is in the committee for the preparation, we have made public consultation, we have submitted comments and suggestions, we have the final processing - which I believe, there is a assurance, that within the month it will be discussed and ratified, if the government's legislative loose ends allow. On the occasion of this debate I have to say that the adaptation of this directive to national law is done with the greatest possible tightening of the rules and conditions. You may also have seen it in public consultation. Although the European directive gave the Member States the discretion to move into a range of initiatives and measures, we have consciously chosen to go to the strictest application, precisely by wanting to give a signal that this issue cannot be low in priority. So there is a need for a significant change in social awareness. Indeed, it must be established in public opinion, in the public, that smoking is not only an unhealthy behaviour affecting smoking itself, but passive smoking is, in particular, an anti-social behaviour, as you quite rightly point out in the question. It is a behaviour of human rights abuse, non-smoking and, in my view, it is also a behaviour that throws down a country's cultural standards. And it is insulting today for our country, I think, for the state, for our state, when all the countries of Europe and too many countries in the wider region have incorporated and implemented this legislation rigorously, we have left us so tragicly. So our will is to move on. We've reached agreement with the scientific companies. The other day, I met with the cardiology, the pneumonology and the anticancer company. They are in the mood to provide us with all the necessary scientific documentation, which - I say to you - is undeniable. We will move on to a well-designed campaign to highlight the need to tighten up and implement legislation. We are not going to vote on a new anti-smoking law. That's a misunderstanding. We resolve the institutional gaps by incorporating the European directive and by ratifying the WHO Protocol on the Smuggling of Tobacco Products. We shall now proceed to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to the Committee on We are in agreement, and that will go on as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u54	You have a second language, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u55	I'm done. And I think that, by closing these institutional loose ends, what is needed next is the strong political will to implement the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u56	Good. Are the parties not starting to apply the law at their meetings and conferences to give the good example? Don't we start the campaign there? Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u57	The Bureau of Parliament has an obligation to set a good example, and you should start with the House. The picture of smoking in the corners of the corridors within Parliament is the first thing to be removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u58	In any case, there is a specially designed space for smoking, Mr Barriota.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u59	Beyond the appointed spaces, you know better than I do that we smoke everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u60	From that point on, it's a matter of policing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u61	I'm not in the Bureau of Parliament. I think it is a matter of the Bureau, anyway. In any case, I am obliged to invoke you, Minister, because I am very pleased that we fully agree on the political, scientific and smoking concept. Unfortunately, however, your Government actively promotes smoking by means of the example. When ministers, doctors - and it is not one unfortunately, there are more, and it is not personal in any way - smoke on camera, in the way it is done, and there is no disapproval, we are a lot of steps behind where we were a few years ago. I think you are well aware that in any other country in the world such an image would have caused a political and scientific earthquake and that the regulatory bodies of our profession would probably have been activated by imposing penalties. So I think - I will agree with you, but I expect specific things - is the information campaign. Someone in this country should also say to her politicians and, unfortunately, doctors - who should not be needed - that smoking is, as you quite rightly said, deeply antisocial behaviour, that in no way incontrovertibility is revolutionary nor magic, but antisocial nonsense, which must be stopped. Law enforcement is very important in itself. At smoking and at a symbolic level, the imposition and application of the legal framework - which is really being humiliated by all of us, from all sides of society - is a situation which needs to be changed. I am therefore waiting - and I really am looking forward to this - for concrete measures, which, in my opinion, should have two immediate objectives. The first is information which - as you quite rightly said - needs because there is a very distorting culture in Greece and for the laws and for smoking itself. The other is the application of a legal framework which is satisfactory, in addition to the famous CFD that provides for mixed control steps, which do not work, and even if we talk about nightclubs and other mass catering and entertainment areas, it leaves windows even for corruption. So I would expect to see a circular, I would expect to see initiatives from the Bureau of Parliament on smoking within Parliament. Because I believe that the House, the Ministries and the hospitals must be areas for direct targeting the anti-smoking campaign, I will today, as we agree, to commit you today to something. On a joint initiative with the Democratic Assent, we are putting a letter to Mr Manios and we are calling for the Committee on Social Affairs to convene a national - if you like - anti-smoking campaign to enforce the anti-smoking law. And I would ask you to agree and speed up such a process, where all together, after listening to people like Mr Behraki - who well know that he is a pioneer in Greece - and the cardinal, pulmonary company, discuss together and form a policy against smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u63	I think we agree. There is a shortfall in law enforcement. I don't want to be justified right now. The truth is that the priorities of the management of a health system over the past period did not, if necessary, allow us to make the necessary time and energy available to take the initiatives they need. Now I think it's time to take the step. The scientific community supports it, even smokers. There are studies today that say that a very large proportion of smokers accept restrictions, especially in enclosed areas. I think that, in particular, the figures from the smoking behaviour of young children are alarming. So a signal needs to be given in all directions, both to family and to education. Prevention is an integral part of the policy of upgrading public health and supporting, let me say, and of the sustainability of the National Health System, because obviously the long-term budgetary benefit of such intervention is very great. We are therefore determined to move this forward with scrupulous steps, with serious moves and not with a firework and with a just communication storm, which will be cut off very quickly. So there is a need for a deeper change of social conscience and behaviour. I think everyone can contribute to this. We need a wider social conflict. Of course, to take the first step, to discuss in the Committee on Social Affairs this idea of a national plan to stop smoking and deal with its enormous and proven side effects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Christophilopoulou is calling for permission from 29 June to 1 July to take part in a specific forum. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u65	The House therefore approved the requested permission. An eighth question will now be discussed under number 869/16-5-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Questions about health issues never miss their topicality, since the situation is getting worse every day. Yesterday we had the sanitary mobilization, another one of the mobilization of the sea. Of course, this situation is not just the task of the current government. The previous governments also have huge responsibilities, but the current government has accepted and followed the same sluggishness of previous governments, the same strategic choice in health issues, and with a tool for fiscal consolidation it further reduces costs, in order to promote the strategic choice of becoming health more and more goods. From this point of view, public structures, public hospitals on business criteria, reduce staff, reduce their function in favour of private groups active in the health sector. So the situation in hospitals and all health structures is dramatic and much more on the islands, where the islands have an even greater peculiarity. Kefalonia and Ithaca are a typical case. Due to the changes of service and pensions made at the Hospital of Argostolion, this hospital is subordinated and so is with the Hospital in Lexiri, as well as with the other health structures of the Law, in health centres, etc. And the problem will grow even further, because there are new pensions coming up. This situation, instead of being treated by governments with permanent staff recruitment, was dealt with in 2012 by deterioration and reduction of the organicity of the Luxury Hospital and today by continuing staff movements from the Luxury Hospital and the other health centers to the Argostoli Hospital. Thus, while the situation as a whole is worsening, the deterioration of the Lixouri Hospital is promoted in a health centre and its de facto cancellation as a hospital is maintained and the other health structures remain in operation. This situation is getting worse, resulting in the people of Kefalonia and Ithaca, because it is precisely island regions and with major transport problems that they are facing ever greater problems. And from this point of view, the question is clear: will all the necessary recruitment of personnel, permanent staff of all the skills they need be carried out? Will the tactics of staffing stop? Will the organicity of the Lixouri Hospital return to the pre-2012 state? Of course, it is only natural that the Government should not go ahead with any de facto deterioration, any merger and abolition of hospitals or other health facilities, health centres, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u68	Mr Colleagues, indeed the timeliness of the problems in the health system is lasting. Our assessment is that the situation is not deteriorating. There are very great difficulties, but I think this is also the feeling of on-call workers, that interventions have been made that have ensured the stability of the system and we expect that recruitments in 2016 will be completed to have an upgraded gradually. The political plan of shrinking and depreciating the abandonment of the ESS is over. It is indeed our strategic choice for public care to be a priority, but we are in the void between announcements, planning, promotion of recruitment, implementation of interventions and a significant improvement in the everyday life of both workers and citizens. We're in this void, I think it'll be closed soon. The image I have and personally from tours in large hospitals and smaller ones, which I have visited at the moment, is that the human potential of the health system understands the difficulties. He realizes that the needs are timeless and accumulated. Obviously, the gaps in a health system cannot be covered, where they have been permanent staff recruitment for six years, but which are now beginning to be implemented. Nowadays, the final table of successful ones has been completed by the AACC and the first nine hundred eighty-five recruits of permanent staff after six years are implemented in the health system. We have strengthened the system with subsidiary staff. We've hired over a thousand auxiliary doctors in the last eight months. Of these hundred and twenty were in primary care. We have kept all ancillary staff until 30 September, and we will also be giving a new extension, which seems to have to be necessary. There is no possibility of allowing human resources to leak over this period, and we will hardly be doing actions which combinedly cover as far as possible the most urgent gaps. Now, on the subject of the particular area you have mentioned, there have indeed been problems there, there are difficulties. From this staff I told you before, seven seats have been covered. They are three Nurses for the Kefalonia Hospital, a Midwives Hospital, a P.T.P.P. and two D.C.s. They will take over the next few days of work. We also have a five-and-a-half-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifth-stop ASs, and that is where three seats have been set for this hospital. Since the new notice that will take place right now, the 4K and 5K notice from the ASP, which are two thousand four hundred forty, of these six hundred ninety are doctors. There are four places for doctors for the Kefalonia Hospital - child psychiatrist, pathologist, surgeon and ophthalmologist - and eight places for the rest of the staff. There will also be an intervention in the ICM, where the forecast is to open three closed beds with the recruitment of seven nurses and three doctors. An ancillary pathologist has been appointed at the Health Centre of Ithaca. We have appointed three auxiliary doctors. Four had been requested, one did not accept his appointment. He was appointed, but he didn't accept his position. Also, at Kefalonia Hospital, a obstetrician and two pathologists and for blood donation. The surgeon didn't even go to the Lixouri Hospital necessarily of the ensembles, and especially from the PEDY, we try with movements of doctors of pathologists, orthopaedics and surgeons to strengthen his function. Movements in this difficult period will necessarily happen. We have directed the health regions to make the best and most rational use of the fewer human resources, ensuring the decent functioning of the primary structures...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u69	Minister, finish it up. You have a dentist too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u70	...but above all hospitals, which are currently very burdened by increased demand and because of the crisis and the poorness of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. The words, Minister, take the wind and count the actions. From this point of view, because these were very specific questions which we have asked you, we have not received an answer on the substance. What's the specific question? That they should not be degraded and merged. That the Lixouri Hospital should be returned to at least the pre-2012 situation as regards at least its organic positions. On these issues, we have had no concrete response, as has been the case with regard to the enormous shortages of staff. You are trying to cover the situation with patches, either with movements, which you say will continue to exist at the present time, or with subsidiary doctors, who are, in essence, temporary solutions, temporary treatment and when the situation gets worse, you understand very well that it cannot be tackled with such a temporary nature. You know very well what is the cause of the ban on the recruitment of permanent staff. The cause of the ban is, in particular, the memos, which include a specific number of departures, pensions and new recruitments, which make it impossible to fill gaps in the health sector, which is a key area. From this point of view, the pretext of fiscal adjustment is getting worse. You know very well that since 2009, there have been twenty pensions of doctors and corresponding nursing staff at the Argostolion Hospital. So you understand how much the situation has deteriorated. The Hospital in Lexiri, which you must commit here that it will not be degraded, has a specific role and character. The evidence that she gave us, the same hospital, you have it in your mind. In 2015, some seventeen thousand eight hundred, eight hundred, twenty-surgery surgery, twenty-two thousand eight hundred tests, microbiological and biochemical, two thousand seven hundred sixty-sixty radiological, eight hundred ultrasounds, two hundred-sounds of bone density, and five hundred-nine patients were hospitalized for about three thousand days of hospitalisation. We are talking about an area that is isolated geographically and with specific problems of movement. Therefore, this situation cannot continue with further deterioration. Regarding the transition to the Psychological Health Unit of Kefalonia, Zakynthos and Ithaca, which covers three islands, it has only been left with four employees as a healing staff of the ten that it had in 2011. Of course, you understand how difficult this situation is. It's a match to the rest of the health centers. In this respect, then, we want to insist, in this respect, on the need to recruit permanent staff, to deal with the serious problems, which exist and are not further degraded by the merger and the abolition of health structures in the wider region of Kefalonia - Ithaca.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Agaleo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, everyone can have their political opinion and political assessment of whether or not in the given context, which has arisen from the recent agreement with the lenders and the commitments of the country, can really be given the priority to be given, to public care and to the social state. This is a matter of discussion and everyone can have their opinion and disagreement on it. However, what is undeniable is that there is no ban on permanent recruitment. We are already going to three thousand four hundred and forty-eight posts this year - which are in the budget of the State - permanent staff, I repeat, for the first time after six years. That's what we're going to do. We are making an effort to speed up procedures, to shorten the years. The big problem is, especially for doctors' positions, there is a very slow process that usually reaches one and a half to two years. We are in agreement with the hospital doctors' organs on how to speed up and simplify this process. With regard to a report which you have made on mental health, I have failed to say that there are indeed four posts from the next notice, which will come out very soon. They are four places identified for Psychic Health, for the Hospital of Kefalonia. They're two P.E. Psychologists for the Psychiatric Health Center, one P.E.T.A. and one E.T.A. We are now preparing a bill on mental health. Basically, we're trying to relaunch a veteran psychiatric reform, making a serious reorganisation of the system at management level. We'll have a chance to discuss this later. Now, a contract of shrinking, degradation, depreciation, closure of structures doesn't exist. There's a difficulty in realising it. Our logic is to find ways of working together and collecting human resources, so that first of all we can ensure the safe on-call of the structures that they provide and the best service to the citizens of the wider region, making use of marginal movements of personnel between adjacent structures and being understood in nearby areas. I think the political signal, that public care is a priority, has also been given to the 2016 budget, where we have an upgraded funding for public hospitals and primary health care. We have increased expenditure on ancillary staff, which is a quicker and more flexible form of recruitment of staff at this time, given the difficulty and delay of the remaining recruitments. Nevertheless, combined I think we are making an important effort. Above all, I believe that this effort is based on the human potential of the health system, which is indeed tired, is within the limits of its resilience, but it realises that today supporting the public health system is of enormous importance for the social cohesion of this country, for the dignity of citizens, for the functioning of the welfare state and - let me say - and for the functioning of democracy. So we really want in these narrow budgetary margins that there can be in this area, in the area of public care, a compensation that is positive for society, which continues to be burdened with austerity measures, etc. It is therefore a strong political will that this intervention should proceed with scrupulous and well-established steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The fifth under number 941/2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the safeguarding of the working and insurance rights of employees of the "Athens Ledra" hotel is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Eleventh question under number 880/17-5-2016 of the second question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Also, the first with number 4375/304/31-3-2016 question and application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Finance, concerning the contract by Kim Glen, or by the company representing the Greek Government, the Ministry of Finance or any supervised body, is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Now we will discuss the second number 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and request the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKEKKEKKEKEROGGlou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina at the "Venezelio" Hospital of Heraklion. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, health problems are accumulating and growing. You don't have an absolute and clear picture, judging by your words. Why have you not answered Parliament's services for the question we have asked for four to five months in the health field? It's unacceptable. This is invoked by the Bureau of Parliament and by the services. Look at it. These are issues that can be discussed and we have proposals and solutions to the deadlocks that have been caused. The question I have tabled for today concerns the loss, the death of small Melina and has been submitted since February. Of course, the debate has been postponed too many times and the question has remained unanswered. I must say that, after a letter from my own to the Bureau of Parliament, where I said that I do not wish and should not have Mr Paulakis come, because he has a morally inconsistent relationship with a doctor, Mr Xanthos responded - of course it took four months - and we are discussing this question today. I asked my question very clearly and specific questions to the Ministries of Justice, Education and Health and I got foggy and vague answers. The Ministry of Justice avoids and passes the responsibilities on to the Ministry of Education because the Ministry of Forensics is responsible for the Ministry of Education and does not even mention and has no sensitivity to say that it is even following the matter. From the press survey I was informed by my own investigation I found that a public prosecutor's inquiry was being conducted at the request of the chief in Heraklion Crete. The Ministry of Education for the findings of the analyses informs us three months after the incident, that it would be sent to the investigating authorities and that such information would be provided. To this day there is nothing official. We are dealing with a case with many questions to the Ministry of Health, and I am clear that I fully respect the presumption of innocence. I ask the questions why answers are demanded beyond family and society, from the citizens, from taxpayers financing the National Health System. There have been two thefts, and there have been two SADs. On one theft there was no result as to who stole the opiate drugs at the "Venezel" Hospital, but there was no follow-up to see about a theft in terms of police investigation or even judicial what happened. It became the SAD, it became theft, yes, but a thief doesn't exist and we stopped there. I think there is a lack of duty here because the investigation was not continued by the police and the public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kegeroglu, leave something for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u78	I have to say the same once and for all, and I think you will give me the time. I am not going to take the floor to protest because Mr Tsakalots is not coming to answer the other question I have put. Here, we will focus on this issue today. For the other ETF at PANGNE there was a result, there was a confession and there was a check for a rehab programme, a personal disarmament programme, and the question is whether this has been implemented. Now we're going to the HR for the incident, for the loss of the child. The "Atticon" Hospital was selected to get from there a doctor who would carry out the SAD for an incident in a child, which the "Atticon" Hospital has two - three per month, if any, unlike the "Pedon" Hospitals of Athens and Thessaloniki, who have hundreds of such incidents. And well, the Attican was chosen, I don't know which criteria. Why was the head of the Anesthetics Service not chosen as a regular teacher, but was a substitute chosen to do this? It has so far not been informed and the conclusion is not given, as you say in the written answer, neither in the family nor in the parliamentary control, because the disciplinary procedure has not been completed. But it's been six months. Toxicological tests have been delivered after all? We're learning from the press that they've surrendered. Of course, the press also mentions views which are probably scientific and which are included in a publication, which I will present to you in order to consider and give it to the competent services, with possible problems for the medicine used, for the possible allergies it causes and for their treatment or not. I am not in a position to express an opinion on this subject, but I will give you the post.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u79	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. What I want today, Minister, is within your duties - I will obviously also ask the Ministry of Justice a new question - but you will tell us, having the hand in the heart and taking the position of the father of the child, if you will, of the family or society, to give answers and to deal with a case fairly and a fact, if you are satisfied with all that has been done so far and what you intend to do from now on, so that answers can be given to the questions that the family and the society have put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u82	Mr Colleagues, first of all, with regard to the suggestion that the timely question of the PASOK-DMAR should be debated on health issues, there is indeed a request and a corresponding one made by the JRC Parliamentary Group and we are trying to find available time to discuss it. We have already discussed one at the initiative of the river. We have no reason, frankly, to tell you not to discuss health policy at this time in our country. We believe that this government's health policy is one of its comparative advantages. There are progressing positive interventions which are slowly, I think, in my own view, but also in the health system, are beginning to yield significant results to the day-to-day life of the system. So that's what we'll see in the next few minutes. We know that this openness exists, but because it is a very long process, we have to find the right time. On the subject you raised with your timely question, I really think that these should not be discussed in this House. It is clear that there is a political destiny for that. There is a tragic event and the health system and the coordinate state with its organs must check the conditions under which it took place, give them responsibilities, if any, and above all support the credibility of the public health system. I think that these interventions, which make use of and criminalise a family relationship, all they do in the end - although I do not like the expression, I will say it - are to take advantage of the pain and demand of the family and of society that there should be no shadows on these issues, that there should be control and transparency and of course there should not be impunity. They take advantage of this climate, to create political controversy and to target government officials. I think that doesn't honor us. I personally asked Mr Kegeroglu to give him the opportunity to answer these questions in writing, with the data we have. We have said that we should also come to the House and, in any case, we should reach a final agreement. What's the conclusion, Mr. Kegeroglu? The conclusion is that there may have been delays or delays in the procedure, but the procedure with regard to the first incident, which concerns the embezzlement of opiate preparations by the hospital has been investigated, the disciplinary procedure has been initiated, referred to the disciplinary body of the HR, which had expired its term of office. If we really had the perception that you imply, cover up or anything else, it could remain there until the new disciplinary board was established with the placement of the governors. I think it is really disgraceful to insinuate these things. The Ministry of Education referred to the Central Disciplinary Board. The Central Disciplinary Board chairs a senior judiciary and by unanimous decision it has decided and imposed a disciplinary sentence, which, from what I have been informed, is beginning to be implemented these days, with a deprivation of wages for some time. This case is closed. What is open is, of course, - and this is a demand for all of us - to explore the causes and circumstances of the sudden, unexpected death of a small child and, in particular, to identify, where appropriate, problems relating to medical practice so that in future, in future, they can prevent such negative events. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] The choice of who will make the SAD doesn't have the SAD was made by the Department of Health, who is the Head of the University Hospital, who is a Professor of Medical School, and of course has not been made either at our suggestion or in consultation with us. The board of directors and the board of directors had the power to choose and I think the logic was that they should not choose a university from Crete, but someone who has the cognitive object and I think that particular selection from the University Hospital, from Attica, had all the characteristics of scientific validity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u83	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u84	Allow me, Mr President. The conclusion is complete. I personally haven't seen it. I know it's been transmitted to the hospital administration, which will meet. Now the new commander has been in charge for two weeks. Now a deputy commander is assigned. The management of the hospital is normally set up and will obviously be dealt with. The toxicology tests were ordered by the police, by the judicial authorities, and that's where their findings have been. The ministry is not involved at all. The ministry has no influence on the central disciplinary board, nor of course on the investigation conducted by the judiciary. So justice has now been dealt with in the case. I don't know if the findings of the SAD have been requested. All the procedures provided for will be initiated. Intent to cover up in the name of a family relationship or possibly of a cooperative relationship, because it can also be said, does not exist. And it is to the credit of the Deputy Minister who, from the outset, stated that he does not want to be involved at all in this process and had no participation in all the debate that preceded the previous period. Any consensuals were made exclusively with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u85	You have your dentistry too, Minister. I understand the sensitive issue, but we must respect the time at hand. You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have come prepared for me to have made suggestions or complaints about the relationship and the rest. Just the opposite. It's nothing to do with the girl having a cousin Minister of Health. That could have happened and not have happened. In fact, I said that I wrote a letter and said that I did not ask Mr Polakis to take part in the debate, because it has a morally inconsistent, but from Mr Xanthos, and I thought you were up to now informed. Today you take responsibility, because you said that Mr. Paulakis had told you from the outset that he does not want to get involved in the case, and five months you have not come for the answer. You confessed. I didn't say that. I thought it was because he shouldn't have come or why the relative would come, etc. And after clarifying it, I said that you are welcome. Therefore, do not give me any intent to imply a connection. What you said will be evaluated by those who heard it, but do not come from me. I said: why didn't the administration, which also comes under the Ministry of Health, take care of this particular issue of the 'Venezelio', of the ETUC? Since it was not possible for Mr. Melissa to find out who the thief was, why did the procedure not proceed with the investigating authorities, with the police authorities, etc., after theft was found, but was not found? Of course, there are questions! Because if it were to be continued, of course the disciplinary board would not decide on inappropriate behaviour, but on a continuing basis. If that were the result. But I told you again that it's not what's so interested. What is of interest is to give answers to the incident itself. It's not what's so interested, because that's what's gonna be judged. This could all be rumors and not reflect reality. We want to see whether all the procedures for death have been initiated, for the loss of the child and for a finding to answer the questions - where they are formulating - of the family in a scientific way. They do not care about family relations, nor about our political purposes, whether they exist and where they exist. Forget about them! Say you've been a member of the family and had the same anxiety. Shouldn't answers be given? That's the point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the written question, as we put it, and with which we were asking for specific things, we did not even mention that for a period of time he was a fellow Member of Parliament or anything. It's not about faces. What matters is the result. And I think that you can secure the process so that reliable answers can be given. And can I tell you something else? You said the choice and mandate for the SAD was PANGNE's administration. All right! But the Ministry may have the procedures to order an investigation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u87	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u88	I'm wrong! So I, because there are a lot of questions and because there are shadows in the whole process, all of them along with the Minutes and the publications will put them in a file and I will send them to the SPS, asking for your assistance to go ahead with an investigation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u89	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u90	Mr Colleague, this case that has also shaken local society, in my view, has become a political issue because of the relationship alone. That is quite clear. This case beyond the tragicity and emotional burden that it caused the family and the wider roundabout - which was expected - would not have taken this dimension if there were no particular relatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u91	Not from us, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u92	Look out! There were specific forms of the well-known "yellow" press and, unfortunately, a portion of the political world reproduces these rumors and sperms. I think, therefore, that if we really want to preserve the validity and credibility of the House, we should also have in mind - and that is my view - that Parliament is not a court or a court or a matter of this kind. The House debates political responsibilities and political responsibilities in this case. There were delays because the disciplinary body had not been set up in the 7th Ministry of Education, etc. . Political responsibilities for handling do not exist. We have barely made it clear from the outset that we want to end this so that there are no shadows and that tragic parents are persuaded that the state is not giving anyone, that there are control bodies and that it could really be done as far as possible on the part of the public health system towards the child who has been lost. So, personally, I really want this debate to be closed. Of course, you have the right to appeal to the EDPS. We are going to ask the JHA to be activated, there is no reason to deny interventions in auditing and not to use institutions, which are under our responsibility to make this matter fully clear. We'll see the final conclusion. I imagine it will move from the new administration of the hospital, whatever procedure it takes and the responsibilities will be attributed, if they exist. We believe that it is really important today to remember people, especially young children who have been wrongly lost, but I think that it is also important to respect the work that the human resources of the National Health System are doing today, which wants to feel that the state is protecting it from innumerable attacks. And a sense of trust and security must be established with regard to the services of the National Health System. I think it is a tragic mistake, in the name of any opposition, to deceive as a whole and create problems of confidence. You know very well, because you're from the area, that at that time, with the dimension that he had taken, there were such problems, there were people who asked to cancel scheduled surgery. So we need transparency, justice, but also effort, maturity and seriousness to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u93	Good. Thank you, Minister, for the presence. I am aware that the fourth under number 947/6-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, regarding the appointment of the Secretary-General, is not discussed due to the absence of Mr. Mousala. Also, the seventh question under number 914/27-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament's 2nd Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi", is not discussed. Similarly, the tenth question under number 545/15-2-2016 of the Second Chamber of Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Health, concerning the operating problems of the EKA, is not discussed. But, now, the first question under number 950/6-2016 will be discussed first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki’s Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafyllidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the free concession of a piece located in the administrative boundaries of the Municipality of Paul Mela for the construction of the 5th Municipal School and the 7th Prefecture of Evcarpia Thessaloniki. Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your response and your presence. With my request I pleaded with the unanimous request made by two decisions of the municipal council of the Municipality of Paul Mella for the absolutely necessary, immediate, urgent, urgent treatment of a major problem, which concerns children of primary school and kindergarten, because in this area of the Municipality of Paul Mela - to report on the anthropogeography, we are talking about the three former municipalities of Stavroupolis, Polychni and Eukaryia - on the basis of the 2011 census there are 100 thousand inhabitants. In fact, we're talking about over a hundred and fifty thousand people. The particular municipality of Eukarpia has a rapid settlement and population growth, mainly of new solar inhabitants, with four neighbourhoods: Evxinoupoli, Efffediopolis, Philothi and Eukarpia, where the problem has actually reached its limits. I ask you, Mr Apostle, Minister, to assist. I describe the reason why the grant of this section 292E, of three thousand nine hundred and fifty square meters for the construction of the 5th Primary School and the 7th Primary School, is free of charge. It is because, and only the numbers to mention, Minister, it is sufficient to prove: Six kindergartens, the 4th kindergarten works with three sections, seventy pupils. The 6th kindergarten school is sixty-six. Now we're going to Eukarpia elementary. Let me just describe the overnumbered students: we have more than three hundred fifty students at school. In other words, the 1st Municipal School has three hundred ninety - nine students. Let us try to figure out how these students are doing with Kid Box rooms, with a prototype in the intangible spaces, with most of the operating problems, by moving students from regions more remotely, such as the areas of Euxinopolis and Philothei, which lack minimum education spaces for a European Union country. This movement creates increased risks in relation to physical integrity, because they must go through roads, which are particularly high traffic. It also creates a loss of time and delays at the school attendance. I described the strong housing growth, the rapid increase in the school population. In the second part of my speech, Minister, I will show you that they are all ready in relation to studies, funding and so on. All that remains is your immediate signature, if possible today, of a unanimous request from the Municipality of Paul Mela for this purpose, for the free concession from your Ministry - because your Ministry belongs the particular plot - so that immediately start construction, dismantle the whole system and create human conditions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u95	Let's hear the Minister's answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u96	...because the children of Epharmia, Minister, are not children of a lower god.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Triantafylides, let's hear what the Minister will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u98	The children of Eukarya - I will say again - are not children of a lower god. Minister, look at me, please. We are talking about the area that has "Titana", it is the famous SMA Eukarpiia and it is not the backyard of Thessaloniki. It's a slaveship where people fight with their unemployment, try to take off their part and care where their children leave them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Triantafylides, we must listen to the Minister, after I first make known to the House that the meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-one students and two teachers and two teachers from the 8th Municipal School of Glyfada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now we're going to Eukarpia. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, since the children are listening to us in this Chamber, we are also interested in the issues specifically affecting students. Indeed, the Municipality of Paul Mela with a document asking us to grant this land - it is a part of a larger area, about fourteen thousand square meters - in order to raise a municipal school and a kindergarten. The need is substantiated - and in particular what you mentioned in your speech - very well documented. This is a major issue that exists in the region. But I will add, my dear fellow Member, that it is also the will of this government to make use of such areas for the sake of the society as a whole. The Ministry's services, in order to suggest on the request - there are the relevant provisions - have forwarded the request to the Forestry of Thessaloniki, in order to inform us of the form and nature of the area concerned, but also to the Prefecture, in the Region of Central Macedonia, to examine the real and legal status of this property. They are procedures provided for in the legislation. We will speed up these procedures, because we know the problem closely. This property is located on the border of the Municipality of Mela and has emerged in our Ministry from the rest of the land, not allocated, of the additional distribution of 1957 in the wider area. The Prefecture of Thessaloniki, in the context of the proposal of the Department of Political Earth and Localization, separated this piece as a shared reservoir. The rest was given to the municipality for the creation of sports facilities, for cultural activities and for the construction of schools for disabled people. We shall proceed with the concession of this use. The problem with regard to his preaching as a reforestation will be resolved by the lifting of the afforestation. It is a procedure provided for in the legislation in force, under Article 57(1) of Law 998/1979, as amended by Article 36 of Law 4280/2014. So we have no legal problem with regard to the question of dealing with the resurrected. From that point on, that's the will. And I would say that, as far as possible, we will speed up the procedures so that today - tomorrow we can sign this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u101	Yes, sir. I think the answer was clear, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u102	First, I should like to state in the Minutes whether the good fellow Members, the two unanimous decisions for both the 5th Primary School and the 7th Primary School from the City Council of the Municipality of Paul Mela. It's for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He would ask: "Okay, you ask, it is necessary, residential development, a rapid increase in the school population. Did you do something? We'll give it to you. Have you moved on?’ Minister, firstly, guaranteed funding. There are also communications from the relevant bodies. In particular, the 7th Eukarpia Preschool will be financed by the new NSRF. Have the studies been done? The studies, Minister, are ready. There are studies carried out by the Ministry of Education and other acts, preliminary and preparatory, so that it is ready. All that remains is the approval of the topographical document, which has a file to tell you that it has already been filed at the Cordellio-Eousmou Town Planning Department to issue the relevant permits. All that's happened. There's only one vote left. And the vote is what you are putting it today, and it is quite clear that the government's political will is to overcome both forests and whatever bureaucratic and any procedurals, so that it is really soon, immediately, decongested and there is a real place of this kind that is suitable for young children, babies, because we are talking about kindergarten. In other words, we are talking about the formation of spaces, either about their learning process or about sleeping. In protots and in swamps this procedure is not done. And all these reasons for upgrading education, etc. In these areas, I've been flying, Minister. We really need to create schools that also love kindergarten students, young children, and primary school students. So I would ask you, very much after the expression, the portrayal of the political will for the immediate, free concession of your Ministry, because your Ministry belongs, for bureaucratic procedures to be speeded up, and for today's political reason not to be left - a standstill, a fruitful and creative dialogue, which leads to this conclusion without content. I despise it. Especially for Vangelis Apostolos, I know that he will see it immediately, so that in his hands very soon, the municipal authorities of Paul Mela have this missing vote, so that they can move it forward and put pressure on other directions. And the funding is ready and the studies are ready and the livestock is ready. Only topography is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. I imagine, Mr. Apostleu, you won't need much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u104	No, Mr President, I won't need much time. I just want to say that, because we are now experiencing a period of time by counting, recording, making public property of the Ministry, and unfortunately we are dealing with situations where concessions had been made under certain conditions, so that afterward we are forced to lift concessions, you realize that this is something that is disturbing to us. But, especially in your dentistry, by putting those elements that show that all conditions are ensured in order to implement this use, I say that we are actually doing so, and children, the region, the residents will feel, through this process, that the state is interested in making good use of such land.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much. The second under number 942-3-6-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the strikes in the port of Thessaloniki, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Dritsa. The third under number 945/3-6-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the ongoing Albanian challenges, is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Kotzias. The third, with number 946/3-6-2016, topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning Turkey's financing through the Consulate of Komotini, for the purchase of property of despaired Greeks in Thrace, is not discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Kotzia. The first under number 951/6-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the resolution of the operating issues of Heraklion Airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS" is not discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Spirtzi. The seventh question under number 948/6-2016 will be discussed first-round question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kolkalis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compliance with the rules for the prevention, control and eradication of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in ovine and caprine animals. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the basis of a decision by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, detailed rules are laid down for the implementation of the programme of monitoring, control and eradication of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. The objectives of this programme are the systematic investigation and diagnosis of such encephalopathies in ovine and caprine animals, through active and passive surveillance, on a positive result, either the eradication of an outbreak of scrapie or the control and prevention of spread and its exclusion in the human and animal food chain. An important role in the implementation of this programme is played by the Veterinary Departments of the Directorates for the Rural Economy of Regional Units. The specific veterinary sections of the regions have undertaken the supervision and implementation of the above programme, with a view to the resolution of farms and the establishment of persistent animals in the disease. Specifically, blood samples impose restrictive measures on farms, manage animals, impose penalties on farmers and others. In the Larissa Prefecture in 2015, Minister, sixty contaminated farms and five thousand infected animals have been recorded. Unfortunately, only one veterinarian is responsible for this project. There is an urgent need, because public health is at risk, for the proper continuation, timely implementation of this programme. In view of the above, Mr Minister, you ask: What action will you take in order to implement properly, in good time, appropriately the programme concerned with public health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Mr Colleagues, we do indeed have a great deal of trouble with the scrapie. It is a fatal disease, which mainly affects goats and sheep. It is known for over 200 years in our country and there is scientific evidence showing - at least until now - that it is not passed on to humans. In the context of the implementation of applications for co-financed programmes for the eradication, control and eradication of certain animal diseases, it applies in our country, as you quite rightly mentioned in your position, the Control and Eradication of Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies in small ruminants, as I mentioned earlier. The programme shall be implemented in confirmed cases and shall aim at systematic research and laboratory diagnosis by applying appropriate techniques. In any case of scrapie, it shall be sought to check and exclude its entry into the food chain of humans and animals. I stress this because, although it does not have any effect, there is no way through the control of leaving a trace of it. For this reason, in particular, the Larissa Regional Veterinary Office is making a weighting primarily of all epidemiological agents and an evaluation of the rearing of its integration into one of the three programmes that we have, a genotypic control programme, a killing programme and a complete destruction programme, an intensive surveillance programme. The mandatory annual surveillance of these diseases is carried out by the implementation of an epidemiological surveillance programme and, as I have said before, it is carried out without delay throughout the whole process. Of course, the Larissa Regional Unit, due to its large animal population, has the highest incidence in our country of scrapie. Seventy-seven contaminated breeds have been recorded between 2002 and 2015 in the regional unit of Larissa. Of course, as I said before, if you consider that this is an area with four thousand farms and the corresponding farmed population, which in particular in small animals exceeds nine hundred thousand sheep and three hundred thousand goats, you realise that this is a very large area. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u110	Thank you for your location, but we receive information that there are several infected animals and when the farmer sees that the veterinarian is not coming, because the veterinarians are not enough, he is likely to throw the animal into a small water channel. From this, yes, there is no risk of transmission but there is a risk for the food chain. Do you intend to proceed directly or later to the recruitment of veterinarians or to any reinforcement of this programme, which is very important and especially to the Larissa Prefecture, as you quite rightly said, where the livestock is large? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u112	Mr Colleague, you are also aware of the huge problem that exists from the lack of veterinarians at both central and regional levels. That is why, in view of the difficulties which exist with the current composition of the programme, we will also consider an amendment of the programme to small ruminants and to cattle, and we will really try as much as possible to meet the obligations we have to limit this contagious disease, taking into account the possibilities that we have with the present composition. Perhaps in this process we will come through this particular meeting, as I have told you, to see how in regional sections, such as yours and others that are acute to the problem, to get veterinarians, who are engaged in other activities, from these regions to take them there, of course, with the well-known difficulties we have. I really have the opportunity to say that we have a great deal of problem, Mr President, regarding veterinarians throughout Greece. We absolutely must move on to the recruitment of veterinarians, through programmes from the European Commission, the European Union. At this point in time, especially in the case of advisers, namely those who say that the geotechnical applications, we will be able to meet the needs to overcome the great problem. However, keep in mind that we are monitoring, recording incidents, and we are trying as close as possible to farmers as we can, because we know that many times there is a mood of their own not to show the case, because they believe that this has other consequences. We have made it clear, therefore, that it is not passed on to humans and there is no way that this disease will affect the food chain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister, for the presence and the answers. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of 22 March 2016, 28 March 2016, 8 April 2016 and 11 April 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u114	The minutes of the meetings of 22 March 2016, 28 March 2016, 8 April 2016 and 11 April 2016 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-09-S1-commons.u115	With the consent of this House at 11.11' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 10 June 2016 at 10: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
