ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Accreditation of the quorum shall begin. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Public works, supplies and services contracts (adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU)’. The above draft law was identified by the Government as urgent and the committees accepted by a majority as urgent, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 28 July 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. I propose: the first two rapporteurs will be able to register electronically. The first is Mr. Karanastasis from SYRIZA, and the second is Mr. Metarakis from New Democracy. Finally, Mr Metarakis will also be able to register, so that we can see how many colleagues will be registered. Secondly, once the speeches of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers have been finished, I would ask that the Minister be given the floor on the bill, but also to tell us which of the Members' amendments he is accepting or not, as they are three amendments so far with regard to Members. So that we do not look at today, so far there are no ministerial amendments. We therefore have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2	Miracle of the Fifteenth, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3	Okay, we said don't look at each other. At the same time, Mr. Paraskevi will come and talk about some articles that are part of his ministry and are embedded in the directive. However, the flow of the rapporteurs and the special speakers will not be interrupted. The Minister talks, then the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, and we will be on the list of colleagues. The time will be determined according to how many will be registered. Is there a colleague who would like to speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr President, in plenary it must be explained by the Minister responsible what is the reason for the urgency. I do not know if you remember from your long experience in incorporating a directive using the rules of the House's Rules of Procedure for urgency and urgency. So the Minister needs to explain before the rest of the procedure begins, because the procedure is urgent and we have to close two very serious directives at a meeting. I do not know, of course, whether this is a routine matter for the Minister, but it is not for Parliament. The explanation, Mr President, must be clear and the arguments - the Conference of Presidents and the committees have said so - are nothing more than the majority. Why did the majority say so? And why didn't the majority say "probably"? And why did the majority not say 'at all procedures'? And why did he say "one meeting"? All this requires a clear parliamentary explanation, because otherwise we have not understood, Mr President, what the Greek state needs. Let the ministers tell us. Why don't we just have a government? It is, in fact, strange because we are resorting to urgent procedure for incorporation of directives. The second thing I would like to know about, Mr President, is tomorrow, which is one of the three directives incorporated into a plenary decision, which the Minister has a legislative initiative. This also has an interest in our parliamentary group in the shaping of the responsibilities of our parliamentary representatives. I would therefore ask you, for both - the second is simple and formal, but the first is essential - to have clarification on the part of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, could I have the floor too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. In addition, with what Mr Loverd said, I will say this. There is not even an excuse for urgency for this reason: if it were to be incorporated into two simple instructions, we could give our consent to the economy. However, since the directives themselves allow a great deal of room for national legislation to deal with crucial issues and if we look at the draft law - at least half of the articles are not a directive, but a legislative initiative by the Government - it is not possible to discuss this whole major issue at a meeting, taking into account the prehistory of public works, where maliciousness and mismanagement have taken huge forms, but if we still take into account the current conditions, where we must protect the public money and the costs of taxpayers and all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u11	You will allow me to tell you that it is the first application of the revised Article 110. On the essential issue raised by Mr Loverdos - and you, Mr Carras, have also adopted - a debate has been held in the relevant Standing Committee. That's where he was placed, the Minister said. It was not the opposition, and that is why a majority decision was taken to discuss the bill as a matter of urgency. It is therefore not a question of plenary. The debate took place in committee. Obviously, the opposition - as a whole, I would say - was not taken on the urgency, the vote was taken and the urgency was decided. The Conference of Presidents, also a majority - because opposition did not agree there too - was actually adopted by the committee's recommendation. If the Minister wants two, three minutes to repeat what he said in committee, I would be happy to give him the floor. If not, then we'll start the process. Mr. Stathakis, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u12	I will tell you in my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u13	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u14	Now he needs to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Loverdo, he wants to say that then. The question you raised has been resolved in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u16	That is right, Mr President, but because you referred to Article 110 - it is not a rhetorical question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u17	You don't have the modified one there. In your Rules of Procedure, it is not the wording of the amended Article 110.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u18	That is why I ask you to speak. I keep the Rules of Procedure the way it used to be. However, the procedures, as set out in Rule 110, and the others in Rule 111 and the previous Articles 108 and 109, concern Parliament. It's not about the committees. I think I'm right about that, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u19	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u20	No matter how it has been amended, the debate in plenary on the issue of urgency cannot be prohibited, because whatever the committee decides, I think that your experience...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u21	The Conference of Presidents has again decided by a majority, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u22	And the Conference of Presidents. In essence, Mr President, the configuration of matters is, in fact, the desires of the majority. One cannot withdraw from the minority to put the matter in the House as well. I know we won't convince anyone. But I consider this House's contempt for the Minister to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Loverdo, don't say the same thing. You've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u24	But that's the way it is. He's obligated to say now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u25	I can't oblige the Minister to be well saved!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u26	...because it brings the directive in this way and pervades it in a number of provisions of a non-transparent nature which are not within the directive. To say it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u27	He doesn't want to say it now. We can't force him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u28	Yes, but it has a democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u29	We agree, okay. It's your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u30	Is observing the Rules of Procedure a democratic deficit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u31	Who does he think he is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u33	Please, Mr. Santorinier. Mr. Loverdo, your point of view has been recorded and the process begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u34	Now the process begins. It's not after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u35	Don't waste any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u37	Please, Mr. Santorinier. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u38	But, Mr President, he cannot speak of a democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u39	I answered under the Rules of Procedure. Let it go. On the substance, if I was down in the Chamber, I would have another view. As President, I have to apply the Rules of Procedure. The first speaker is SYRIZA's rapporteur, Apostle Karanastasis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are discussing today, we incorporate Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU into national legislation. These are instructions that their integration has delayed and we have been accused of this in the past few days. However, the truth is that in 2014, the previous government passed a law that, although after these directives, did not incorporate them into national legislation. In addition, Law No 4281/2014 proved to be inapplicable in practice because it provided for large volumes of secondary law as a precondition for its application, the adoption of Presidential Decrees and Ministerial Decisions, which was never adopted. As a result, it was finally repealed on 1 July 2016. Today, in parallel with the transposition of the above directives, we are abolishing almost all the legislation on this subject. By introducing new, modern and innovatory provisions, we hope that we will radically change the landscape in the vast public procurement sector, a public life sector, the goods, services and project execution market, for which it is worth mentioning that public authorities at European level spend 18% of GDP every year. In the reasonable question: 'But did the system of public procurement not function well until now and did the directives have to be revised in addition to the whole of the legislation in question?' I respond, pointing out very quickly the key points of the repealed legislation, characteristics, in the end, of a state that we all want to leave behind: In 2012, with the ineffective resolution of Law 4281, there were four hundred different legislation on public procurement in the Greek legal class, creating incredible malfunction and confusion among all stakeholders, eventually acting as an outbreak of interoperable and corruption. Depending on the form of the contracting authority or the tendering body there were special schemes and regulations whereby contracting authorities and bodies, mainly operating in the form of S.A., are exempted and, through their regulations, deviated from the rules on the award and execution of public works, studies and supplies. I could mention dozens of other malfunctions of the old system. But it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the new one. Through the directive, which I have just mentioned, policy throughout the European Union in the field of public procurement has been integrated into a comprehensive programme. The aim of the programme is to radically modernise public procurement in the European Union, contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy, for smart sustainable and inclusive growth. The draft law under discussion aims to combat pluralism, uniform application of the rules adopted by all contracting authorities, simplifying and simplifying the rules and procedures, generalising electronic means as a target for communication in public procurement, establishing for the first time rules for public service contracts, combating corruption by strengthening transparency, supporting competitiveness, taking into account social and environmental criteria, strengthening innovation, the drastic reduction in administrative burden, modernising procedures, the adoption of a specific framework for social, health and education services, and in general a better qualitative and strategic use of public procurement. Before entering into a brief analysis of the individual elements of the draft, I would like, by making use of the discussions in the committee responsible, to stress that for the first time the country obtains uniform legislation for all types of contracts, irrespective of their nature and value, unless otherwise specified in the individual provisions of the law. They are treated with particular sensitivity issues relating to disabled people, in a framework of parity, without discrimination and exclusion. Issues relating to specific sectors, such as supply of entities active in the water and electricity sectors, are regulated. It is a pretext that we want and will seek to guarantee the public character of these goods I mentioned, water and electricity. This does not mean that they should not enter rules in their contracts. There is an attempt to resolve all the problems I have mentioned, such as the appeals and appeals of contractors and candidates. This very important and similar draft law consists, in its structure, of four sections - books. Analytical tables of foreign trade ­ New forms of award and new electronic means of awarding public contracts are established in Book I. Competitive dialogue and a negotiated competitive process are being adopted. The dynamic purchasing system is introduced as a fully electronic process, which ensures the best possible use of public resources. Provision is made for the award of public contracts through electronic auctions. New electronic technical markets are being developed, such as electronic lists. Transparent and qualitative criteria are laid down, such as by drawing up the technical specifications. Innovation is encouraged. And competition is being strengthened. The administrative burden shall be reduced by using the European Single Convention as a preliminary proof to replace all certificates issued by public authorities or by third parties. It makes it compulsory to use ‘e-Certis’, an electronic system whose purpose is to facilitate the exchange of certificates and other supporting documents. The most economically advantageous tender, determined on the basis of the price or cost, is now being awarded as the sole criterion for the award of each type of public procurement, taking into account, where appropriate, the criteria for assessing the best price-efficiency, which is first integrated into the case-law of the courts of the European Union and the Greek courts. They shall include environmental, legal and labour requirements in the award and execution procedures in order to ensure the best service of the public interest. For the first time, too, Article 20 energizes the possibility for contracting authorities to grant exclusive rights to participate in procedures for the award, award and execution of public contracts to social bodies, groups of persons with specific characteristics and to any other economic operator whose main purpose is the professional and social integration of disabled or disabled persons, provided that more than 30% of its employees belong to those groups. In Article 22, electronic procurement contracts, as well as the National System of Electronic Public Contracts, are further strengthened, ESIDI, and is provided for as a single electronic platform, which will support the system of public procurement of more than EUR 60,000, through its gradual mandatory use since spring 2017. At the same time, the interoperability of the system is further developed with other electronic and information systems, with a view to simplifying, such as GEMI, and all of this. It is necessary to observe rules on effective origin, identification and immediate treatment of conflicts of interest. Issues related to the operation of the KYMTOS, the Central Electronics Register of Public Contracts are regulated. It is planned to achieve the interconnection with other information systems such as the Liaison Register, the General Accounting Office, the OPS, to monitor the projects co-financed. For better and more professional management of the procedures, central purchasing authorities are established to achieve economies of scale and reduce transaction costs. The central purchasing principles are defined as the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Directorate-General for Public Contracts and Supplies of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health Suppliers Committee. Significant innovation is the new provision concerning the introduction of maturity data to ensure the public interest and the speedier implementation of these contracts. In this way, the notice or signature of contracts which cannot be performed shall be prevented. Requirements to ensure the maturity of projects shall be referred to in paragraph 2: precursors, environmental contraceptives, archaeological surveys, expropriations. Article 50 deals with the design system - construction applied by rules around the world. This is a flexible system that can provide high absorptions under the transparency regime. In our country anyone who asks about it, in and out of this Chamber, will answer that this system, study-building, produces corruption and complication. They all knew beforehand who the contractor would be. This draft law provides for major changes that have substantially altered the distorted, to date, way of implementing the system, such as, for example, the non-qualified compliance table of the technical offer, and the contractor, following the tendering process. Paragraph 1 of Article 82 introduces a system of rules with regard to requirements relating to quality assurance standards, including accessibility for disabled persons. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 88 lay down a procedure for the treatment of unusually low tenders. Article 132 lays down provisions regulating issues of amendment of a contract during its implementation, as ensuring effective competition and respecting the principles of equal treatment and transparency are also required to govern the stage in the performance of the contract. Article 144, which is very important - the participation is regulated and the responsibility of the study is described in the case of modifications to its study, but also throughout the project. Provision is also made for the provision of insurance for the design, construction and services of the project's technical adviser in order to ensure its technical and timely implementation. Paragraph 13 of Article 160 regulates the issues of the completion of the project following a possible discount of the contraaor. The concept of technical adequacy of a contracting authority is introduced in order to enable it to respond successfully both in the conduct of the work or study process and in the course of its development. It is recommended and maintained in the General Secretariat of the Infrastructure Register of Members of the Committees for the Conservation of Public Contracts, Studies and related Services. The technical staff of all contracting authorities or contracting entities shall be entered in this register and the Central Electronic Lotteries System shall be developed in the General Secretariat of Infrastructure. Contracting committees for works, studies and technical services shall be composed of members of that register after an electronic draw, which shall be carried out using the General Secretariat of Infrastructure Electronic System. There are clear terms and obligations regarding subcontractors. It is laid down as an obligation for the contracting authority to request the tenderer to indicate in its tender the part of the contract which it intends to award in the form of subcontracting to third parties. At the same time, subcontractors are entitled to receive their remuneration directly, which provides easy access to small and medium-sized enterprises and reduces market suffocation when the contractor himself fails or delays in receiving the remuneration for the project, for example because of the non-issuance of tax information. The chronic vulnerability of the direct award contracts shall be addressed to the obligation to carry out an electronic draw by lists drawn up by project category or study, after the award of the contracting authority has been completed once each year. It goes without saying that we are not talking about generalising the use of this system, but about the cases that are envisaged, such as the projects considered to be urgent, for example, of natural disasters. Anyone who gets paid to get this project will not participate in the next draws. The provisions relating to rules on the award and performance of public supply contracts are laid down in order to ensure that the new arrangements are in line with the provisions and economic operators applicable by integrating the case-law of the courts. In book II - we have Directive 2014/25/EU - relating to the award of works, goods and services contracts, where those works, goods or services, irrespective of estimated value - unless otherwise specified - are intended to carry out one of the activities relating to natural gas and heat, electricity, water, transport services, ports and airports, postal services, oil and gas mining and coal and other fuel extraction, the specific schemes of contracting entities with a derogation shall be abolished if, due to the legal nature of the entity or the subject of the contracts, there is a need for different regulation of individual award and execution provisions. Book III shall include provisions relating to governance procedures, which shall be implemented by contracting authorities and contracting entities, with a view to ensuring the correct and effective application of the provisions of the draft law. Finally, book IV proposes an improved system of legal protection at the stage of the award of public contracts. Any interested party, who has or has had an interest in entrusting a specific contract to this project and is affected by an act or omission of the contracting authority, issued at the award stage, may bring proceedings before an independent administrative body of the Proceedings Review Authority and request its annulment and provisional protection measures. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are giving public administration and the Greek people a legal arsenal that shields transparency and the rule of law in the sensitive area of public procurement. The discussions in the committee seemed to be a consensus that goes far beyond the limits of the government majority, as well as the positive treatment of the bill by the stakeholders in general. Public administration is required to demonstrate that it can apply it in every direction, without the uncertainty, mistakes and particular behaviour of the past. It is for the Government to impose the intensification by all of its will to reorganise and operate the public procurement sector. And he will! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u41	The rapporteur, Mr Metarakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are essentially discussing the adaptation of Greek legislation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU with regard to public works, supply and service contracts. I'll make four introductory remarks. Firstly, these directives together with 2014/23/EU, which we will be discussing tomorrow, came into force on 17 April 2014 and the Member States should within 24 months have incorporated them into their national law. As the Minister has said in committee, for a year the legislators have been working on this adjustment. However, you did not pre-empt the deadlines or have been able to introduce the bill with normal procedures, so that we have to accept at the last minute being introduced as a matter of urgency. Secondly, I would remind you that in the one and a half years of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, there was already in the legal book n.4281/2014, which had introduced the previous directive on this subject into Greek law, Directive 18. The Committee was told by the Minister for Infrastructure that this legislation was not implemented. You said that right. You did not apply it because you were unable to or did not want to issue it in the time provided for in the necessary regulations. In practice, then, we were not informed about European legislation, and as a result the projects of the period 2015 to today are affected. Thirdly, this unusual and rather unprecedented happened in parliamentary times: cancel No.4281/2014 with an amendment that came to Parliament 15 days ago, before bringing to Parliament the new law we are discussing today. Fourthly, we have seen that the draft law differs in many respects from the original text put in public consultation. And do not rush to say that this is due to the fact that you have taken into account the comments submitted, because the public consultation report, which is annexed to the bill as page 2655 et seq., is revealing that this has not happened. So there is a key issue here and it is about the consistency which the government has once again shown and, in this case, the co-legislative ministries. You realise that the notion of public consultation at the stage of the pre-legislative procedure is an essential process which primarily demonstrates transparency, but which allows citizens, bodies and bodies to be informed of the draft law and to express their opinion and intervention. However, the Government shows that it is not interested in these observations and that is why it has finally brought these two bills, today and tomorrow, with two thousand nineteen pages, in the urgency procedure. The Minister told the committee that the objectives of the bill are the fight against pluralism and the uniformity of public procurement, which we agree with. That is why we also voted in favour of the bill in principle. However, these objectives had already been introduced by Law 4281/2014, a law that you did not implement. And despite the numerous election announcements by SYRIZA and ANEL, this legislative intervention has no real innovation. And I come to the articles. We are, first of all, voting against Articles 19 and 254, because the Greek performance which creates solidarity with associations of entities is neither in line with the spirit nor with the letter of the directive. We shall vote'residents' in Article 50, which is out of the directive and is introducing the question of construction, which is to be applied to all public works. The introduction of the criterion of the economic offer at the expense of the technology for the emergence of the contractor ultimately reinforces the opacity of the execution of public works. The European experience has nothing to do with the system that the bill introduces, but it is still there that it is simply limited to projects with specially identified technical specifications, which these in Europe are accurate and given to everyone. Another issue was raised by the institutions, who would finance these studies. Each participant will eventually take over, with your bill, a very large initial cost of financing the studies, which, if not won, will lose. So, in practice, few are the ones who will have the economic courage to get into these competitions. A small-scale designer - manufacturer, if you enter ten competitions, pays this study, does not win the competition, you realize that it will eventually lead to bankruptcy. We will also vote against Article 53, which provides for public works of less than EUR 250,000 to be carried out without any analytical measurements having been carried out. A point on Article 66 was also raised by the bodies. We agree with the Association of Provincial Journal Owners, who disagree with the incorrect updating of local societies through the regional and local press for competitions, a very widespread instrument for small manufacturers in particular. It has been said that this is because it is provided for by European legislation and the memorandum. New Democracy MEP Maria Spiraki asked the Commissioner responsible, Mr Pietrovanna, who replied that this is not the case with the European Commission, and I have tabled it in the Minutes during the debate in the committee. Minister, we shall table an amendment to Article 66 and I hope that we will agree on this point and accept it. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have reservations about Article 73, which opens the ferry to public batters and enables people who owe them to participate in public procurement tenders, while they owe tax and public funds. As we have reservations about Article 86. One reads that the contracting authorities base the award of public contracts only on the most economically advantageous tender. 'They' are basing, that's what the directive says. How does the government take this provision? Reading page 45 of the explanatory statement, the concept and content of the only criterion for the award of public contracts is introduced, only of the most advantageous and economically advantageous tender, disregarding the technical characteristics. What is more, it is negative that the right granted by Article 98 should be opened by the technical tenders after the financial offers, which can be a blow to the transparency of the procedure as, as you know, the technical crisis is subjective. A number of judgments of the Court of Justice and the Council of State state state that a technical assessment cannot be carried out after the opening of the financial tenders. Minister, Article 106 needs to be explained in relation to the arbitrary right of contracting authorities to ratify any competition at once. We also objected to Articles 117 and 118 in the committee, which provided for procedures for concise tenders and direct awards and partitioning of tenders. Corrections were made to the committee as prosthetics, with the legislative improvement you have put forward. However, since we are talking about partitioning of competitions, it is worth considering the complaint made a few days ago in the Committee of Inquiry into the affairs of the House that a particular motorway was divided into three parts in order to involve smaller contractors who did not have the right, the licence concerned and the license to participate in the tender if it was made as a single one. I think that, after this has been heard in the House, Mr Minister, you have an answer. We are also voting against Article 128, which allows technical advisers to be appointed directly, negotiated without publication of a contract notice, with the approval of a technical board of the Ministry of Infrastructure, namely by giving the Minister responsible the right to appoint direct technical advisers for larger contracts. However, I should like to say something about the positive procedures in the bill. We consider the simplifications to be positive in the judicial and pre-trial procedure. Indeed, there is a particular issue of the delays that are caused by the complex and dashing judicial procedure in many investments. You remember, Minister, for example, Mr 4146/2013, who you had recommended and introduced the pre-trial control of the Council of State for large private projects fast track. Positive, then, is this energy in the bill, for it protects investors from risks. As are the provisions concerning the completion of expropriations and archaeological checks prior to the award of public works. This is important because we are thus avoiding delays, but above all we are avoiding claims from the technical companies they request after the State, in addition to the contractual price, compensation for the delays that have been created. There have also been positive proposals to the committee from the institutions. For example, it is positive that the Technical Chamber of Greece is proposing to allow municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, to use external consultants to supervise projects. I am talking about municipalities and small islands, for example, the Psaras and the Oinousses. We also considered important proposals put forward by the Association of Greek Banks for Sanctions by the House of Concessions and the use of arbitration procedures to resolve disputes. I think they are proposals, Mr Ministers, which can be regarded as positive and are likely to be introduced by legislative improvements in the draft legislation under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee also raised the question of the maturity of public works. But many times it has emerged that ripe projects existed in 2015 - this has also been seen in the context of parliamentary control - many mature projects, however, were responded by the government in 2015, while no studies on new projects are being prepared, so that this gap that you are talking about today is being created. But that is why the current government has a responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today on public procurement. Tomorrow we will discuss a bill on concessions. It's a framework bill, it's a bill setting up procedures. And these procedures, ladies and gentlemen, are judged by the act, and the government will be judged by its actions in the field of public works, by how many projects it will begin, by how many projects it will be able to complete. The Public Investment Programme, the ESRB, concessions are a very important tool to help the recovery of the Greek economy. And the work you have to show to attract investment, at the start of new projects, is almost zero, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers. I have said this many times in this Chamber: any investments that are currently starting are investments which have been guaranteed between 2012 and 2015. I have mentioned several times in the study of the JEP in May 2014, which was mentioned by name in new projects, which the previous government started. Only in the field of concessions - we will be talking about this tomorrow - is EUR 7.3 billion. Many of these investments you finally signed. I shall refer, for example, to the Greek, the TAP, the PPA, the regional airports. You are inaugurating projects that were actually implemented by the previous government. That's as good as it is. The question is, what do you start? You in 2015 and 2016 what are you going to do to implement in 2017, 2018, 2019? Some of your ministers dreamed after the evaluation was completed, that we would have a wave of investments, which we naturally did not see. But the worst of all is not that we see no wave of investments. We do not see any preparation for investment in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The country in 2015 returned to the recession. It will remain in 2016 in the recession. And it turns out, Minister, and in 2017 it doesn't seem like we're going any better. These are the big issues that the government needs to deal with: the right procedures - the ratification of European directives - are, at the end of the day, the question - but the question is how these new procedures, which we are voting on today, are going to take advantage of. What new works can you do? These are the big issues that the House must discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u43	And I thank you, Mr. Mitarakis, and the economy of time. Ladies and gentlemen, electronic recording is closed. I would like to inform you that 13 colleagues have been registered. This practically means that if we keep time with a small tolerance, logically at about 14.30' by 15.00', we'll be closed. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law is supposed to be aimed at radically modernising public procurement in the European Union, contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy for smart, sustainable and theoretically inclusive growth. This reform is carried out by harmonizing three directives, two of which we are considering today. Directive 2014/24 for public contracts and Directive 2014/25 for contracts concluded by entities in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. On matters relating, of course, to public works contracts and public works respectively, the State had to respect transparency and democracy, which was not the case in the past. Those, on the contrary, which characterise public works contracts and public works, are the opacity, direct awards of works or the improper exclusion of third parties for the benefit of ‘local’ contractors. Subsequently, it is the hatred of millions of euros, in consultation with the chosen governments at all times. It is indicative of the deception of the Greek people that there is a lot of public works costed three and four times above the original cost, without the slightest penalty for the contractors. These contractors have enriched and continue to be rich at the expense of our people, acting under the procedure of absolute immunity. It is clear that immunity and immunity, which they receive, is a conscious governmental practice. That is precisely what is called a complication. A complication, which you have denounced in the run-up to the election, and which you have actually "falseeded". Of course, you broke it on the newspaper headlines and on television windows, an important part of which - o of the miracle! - also belongs to public works contractors. If, therefore, the transparency which you are publishing, in public works and contracts, is similar to that of you as an intertwined television scene, then we have a thousand reasons to question your intentions and, of course, the implementation of your political promises. Because even these canalarchs are hypocritically denounced by Parliament this morning, while at night you begged them for a few minutes of publicity, conspiring at the TV windows of the Greeks' political deception. However, you are enthusiastic about the left-wing achievement of harmonisation with European directives at all times. And, really, do you rejoice because as left-wingers you were forced to align yourself with the demands of international speculative capital, which you faithfully serve? Or do you think harmonisation turns the last state in Europe into a modern European state? But let us come to individual articles in the draft law being passed. Articles 3 to 24: They concern the planning and conclusion of contracts and design contests by contracting authorities. The financial thresholds applicable to the award of public works, supplies and services contracts shall be increased. The National System of Electronic Public Procurement is in place, and there is talk of conflict of interest. How can thresholds be increased in the midst of a deep economic crisis? In the context of transparency, which you are publishing, all contracts should be included in the electronic EMSDDA system. With regard to the conflict of interest, what we are pointing out is that major economic colosses with activity and the media are also involved in public works contracts. There is no special provision in Article 24 to combat this situation which is afflicting our country. Articles 44 to 59: The conditions for the technical adequacy of the competent services of the contracting authorities for the conclusion, supervision and supervision of a contract are laid down, the obligation to keep a dossier for each contract to be registered electronically, the maturity of a contract, the minimum content of the contract documents, the content of the technical specifications and the possibility to divide a contract into several contractors. With regard to the conditions for the award of public works contracts, which have as their object the design and construction of a project in parallel, as described in Article 50, our position is that the design system must be maintained in specific categories of projects, including specific know-how for the purpose of achieving defined processing objectives. This will ensure healthy competition and, of course, the quality of projects. And that factor in no way should be passed on to a second fate or, worse still, deported. Articles 60 to 78: The opening point of the procurement procedure shall be defined free of charge and shall provide for full electronic access to the contract documents by the contracting authorities to the economic operators, the framework shall be strengthened by the contracting authorities for decisions to conclude or not to be taken by candidates and tenderers. In the criteria for qualitative selection of economic operators, Article 73 lists the cases for which they may be excluded, i.e. if an economic operator has been convicted of fraud, terrorism, child labour, participation in a criminal organisation and so on. However, a derogation from Article 73(3) is laid down for imperative reasons of public interest such as public health or environmental protection. Since these provisions require a fully organised and operational electronic information system, a clear timetable for implementation should also be set. With regard to Article 73: Without wishing to be ill-faithful or negative, we cannot overlook the possibility that contracting authorities can, on the pretext of public interest, assign works, services, etc., even to proven criminals. Articles 84 to 106: It is defined as a basic criterion for the award of a contract as the most economically advantageous. In particular, Article 86(2) states that the most economically advantageous tender at the discretion of the contracting authority is to be determined on the basis of the price or cost, using a cost-effectiveness approach and may - and here I draw your attention, it says'may', not'must' - include the best value ratio. Costs outweigh as a criterion for quality, instead of these two criteria being represented equally, which is extremely dangerous in infrastructure, where unsavoury work is of particular importance. Unfortunately, however, the data are being exploited and altered by contractors, mainly due to lack of control by the state mechanism, with often disastrous results in terms of the quality of construction. A single safety test shall be those listed below, where the economic operator is required to demonstrate compliance with quality or environmental criteria in the event of excessively low supply. But is that enough? With regard to unusually low tenders, which are affected by Article 88, the contracting authorities are required to invite the tenderer to verify the tender. In order to avoid such situations, there should be a methodology for calculating the supply, as proposed at the hearing of operators. Articles 116, 117, 118 and 128 are another trick of the Minister, concerning the partitioning into smaller parts of competitions, giving the green light to direct awards and tenders even where open competitions should be carried out. The content of these provisions is inconsistent with the Minister's announcements of transparency, while the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in tenders is not guaranteed. There are no adequate safety barriers and there is a risk of an abusive application of these provisions. Articles 222 to 338. These articles refer, in line with book I, to the planning and conclusion of contracts and design contests for the conclusion of works, supplies and services contracts in the important sectors of gas and heat, electricity, water, port and airport services, postal services, oil and gas mining, and to the search and extraction of coal and other solid fuels. These provisions allow the participation of economic operators from third countries, which could contribute to the exploitation of our mineral wealth. Russia can therefore also be included in these countries, whose participation and know-how would make a maximum contribution in this area. The point, however, is that this wealth is sold out or is in the rug process in the way in which the rulers have set it and planned it. It is no coincidence, therefore, that at this time, Brussels is pushing to harmonise these directives, further impoverishing our country and depriving it of its inalienable right to become an energy hub of the highest geostrategic importance in the Eastern Mediterranean. Articles 339 to 344. Procedures and governance obligations shall be established by contracting authorities with a view to the correct and effective application of the provisions of this Regulation. The monitoring and enforcement procedure is defined, the obligation to draw up reports and statistics and to send them to the Committee. In line with the other bills, which contain the corresponding provisions, we are negative, because this should not be a matter of sending this information to the European Commission, which also has a dominant role, but to the Greek Parliament, which should keep control and supervision of national issues. Articles 375 to 379. Includes amended transitional provisions, Annexes and the time of entry into force of this Regulation. It is interesting that the provisions should enter into force. In order to be universal, all the electronic platforms envisaged must be put into operation, appropriate training must be provided for the handling of employees and, of course, for the public to be informed. On the question of transparency, which you allegedly promote, we doubt whether any legislative framework, especially when it comes to incorporating a European directive into national law, will result in clearance in this area. In fact, we do not know whether there is a will on the part of those in power to combat this problem at its source and whether they have the courage to implement it. Lords of government, you represented the lions of antimony resistance and, in the end, proved to be celibatically, as the Golden Dawn had warned, that you are faithful dogs of the Memorandum tyranny. Gentlemen of the Government, the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the European directives has no effectiveness and no benefit, of course, for the Greek people, since those who are called upon to implement the new framework are flesh from the flesh of the earlier corrupted political system, which is responsible for plundering our national wealth and public funds. To harmonize, therefore, it is only ashes in the eyes of our people that the status of interactive, political and economic, should continue to maintain its provocative prerogatives at a time when two million of our compatriots are unemployed, 30% of our people are below the poverty line and about half a million Greeks have emigrated abroad, seeking the self-evident right to work. Do all of these today come out with relief, because you are going to vote for harmonization with Community directives? Does all of these, together with all our compatriots, think that the resolution on harmonisation will mean the beginning of democracy and transparency in the dirty field of public works and contracts? Or will harmonisation with European directives put an end to the awkwardness and the theft of tolls that exist by Greeks on the national roads, which you have given to contractors? Costs in tolls from Athens to Thessaloniki only to go exceed 40 euros when a large part of our people either receives a pension or receives a pension of 300 euros. Is that your socialism? Is this the will of your government to clash with interests? The Golden Dawn for the reasons set out above voted against this bill in principle. The socialism of your government is a bubble, which is blowing. Social policy, democracy and transparency require a break with the rule forces and interests. You do not seek the break, not because you have been raped, as you are being prosecuted, but because you are an integral part of conservative privileged forces and economic interests. Social policy, merit and transparency can only be imposed by Golden Dawn and when this is decided by the Greek people your only reaction, your own and your very few contractors of friends, will be to keep your breath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u45	The special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Maniotis, is called in Stepma. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear from the outset that we support and in principle vote on these two directives, because they are quite simply texts in which we were involved in their formation when they were being discussed at the respective Councils of Ministers. We will therefore be positive in principle, but in the individual articles we will make the placement and criticism that is appropriate, because in some of these things I think it is extremely bad. Let us clarify two - three main introductory remarks. Firstly, public procurement, concessions, all that is included as an economic object in today's two and tomorrow's third directive that we are discussing, is all a huge economic object together. It exceeds 50% of the Member States' economic activities in the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union, and often exceed 15% of the Gross Domestic Product. We are therefore discussing harmonisation on a very serious economic subject. The second point concerns the fact that precisely because of the fact that we have three Community directives, it is clear that the problem we have in Greece is a pan-European problem, it is a problem facing all the Member States. Consequently, the harmonisation of the Member States in those which contain as principles, objectives and guidelines these directives are absolutely certain that it helps the European economy as a whole to have speed, efficiency and transparency. Where were we until a while ago? Because it is useful to know where we were, so that the road on which we are going is very clear and what tomorrow is. Most of the profound progressive reforms that have taken place in the country during the crisis have taken place between 2010 and 2011, and this is recorded in the legislation before us. I explain: 2011 was the crucial year for the creation and creation of the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts, a huge electronic platform in which five hundred and twenty thousand contracts have been registered so far and ninety thousand notices have been entered. A very large part of the competitive processes from the point of view of notices and contracts, which until 2011 were only on paper and on the brinks of public services, are now included in a large electronic platform, on which all the public sector, all suppliers and certainly all the citizens of the place can access. In 2011 we had a significant section in the way the Greek State operates with regard to its economic activities. The so-called framework agreements have been established, that is to say, when we know very well that a public body, urban transport, the army and hospitals need at regular intervals from material supplies which are, in any case, given that they will be done, they have been institutionalised to proceed with framework agreements within a shortlist with the cheapest supply and the best product for all operators. As a result, no one who wants to make 'under the table' any move, proceed to direct award procedures or competitive procedures without any publicity. In this way today with the Framework Agreements, for example, the Hellenic Army provides fuel and form and we consider it very useful for all other public bodies to follow it. Also in 2011 the first electronic auctions were held at the Ministry of Health - Mr. Loverdos is here - and at the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u47	Now they've stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u48	And now they've stopped. Finally, in 2012 we also had the establishment of the Single Public Procurement Authority, a authority that controls the specifications and operating procedures of the Greek State when it comes to large economic contracts. I now come to the own piece of legislation. In order to reach agreement between us, we fully disagree with Articles 345 to 373 which include the establishment and operation of the Proceedings Authority. It is incomprehensible for us at the time when the country is in the process of forming another beginning with thirty people, only lawyers, whose president will be appointed and appointed for seven years. Seven years' term of office is not the President of the Republic, the Chief of the General Staff of National Defence, the Presidents of the Grand Courts of the country, the Ice Authority, the Council of State. They all have a much smaller term of office. Why, exceptionally, is there a seven-year term provided for in this principle? It's obvious that someone's got a government in mind. So because we totally disagree, I want it to be very clear that this process can and must be done in a much more flexible, much more decentralised and much more effective way through the so-called administrative committees. On the other hand, at regional level, it can be formed by the participation of the Representative of the Law Council of the State, the respective department which has opened the tender and an expert designated as independent, to avenge all these preliminary questions, which are supposed to avenge and decide instead a central "danosaurus" authority consisting only of lawyers and established in Athens. The Association of Enterprises for Information and Communications also said something very obvious about this principle. Is it only possible for lawyers to avenge new technologies that require specialized knowledge? Why, for example, do we not set steps per major sector of the national economy, construction, new technologies, health, so that there is actually more efficient management of these issues? In this case, because the Minister has heard the evidence that we need a good case-law basis, let us use the existing case-law of the Greek courts and, of course, the Single Public Procurement Authority, which can also support these decentralised committees that we are proposing. I now come to Article 50, the article on study construction. The manufacturers' representatives have said - and it is now known to all those involved in public works - that the construction can be a nursery of corruption and interactivity, apart from the fact that the scholars are already objectively opposed as they consider them to be entering the cover of the largest item of manufacturers. In 2011, a committee was set up at the Ministry of Public Works with the participation of the Technical Chamber and with the participation of the top parliamentary members of SYRIZA. We tell the Minister this piece concerning the project to be modified on the basis of the findings of the 2011 committee, in which top SYRIZA officials participated, and in no case can it be understood that the project can be implemented in any project. The design only makes perfect sense in very specific, very specific situations, where documentarily and automatically the known study process and subsequent construction cannot be followed. I now come to Rule 128. I would like to say that I have read it many times in the belief that I do not understand, and I hope I do not read it properly. For the use of both the national Parliament and the Practices, I will read parts of the first three paragraphs. Paragraph 1, first paragraph: ‘For projects of more than EUR 30 million, a contract notice may be awarded without publication, by posting the invitation to the website of the contracting authority, the delegation of any expertise, such as technical, legal, economic and organisational consultants after simply consulting the Technical Board of the Ministry of Public Works’. I don't understand. Why not publish and why, for projects of more than 30 million and what is the subject of these technical and advisory advice, legal, economic and organisational? That is the first paragraph. Second paragraph. It is now about the internal organization of the Ministry of Public Works itself. For the purpose of design, study, study control, management and project supervision of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure and computerisation needs, the project may be directly entrusted to external consultants without publication. There is also the third paragraph. By common decision of each Minister, in agreement with the Minister for Development and the Minister for Public Works, a part or all of the public works carried out by each Ministry may be subject to the direct delegation of the preceding two paragraphs. I'll testify for the record on the specific page of the bill we're discussing. It is clear that this is not a question of incorporating a directive. It is purely Greek patent what we have before us, and I think it is absolutely necessary for the Minister to clarify exactly what he has in his mind and, in this case, whether there is a bad wording, to rectify it in the three paragraphs, otherwise for both public works and for the internals, the way in which the Ministry operates, but also for extending direct awards to the entire public sector, there is a major ethical issue. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department, the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to five very specific reform proposals that we want to put forward. Unfortunately, the government, despite the fact that we announced them in the committee, did not take them into account. Even at the last minute, it can be done. First sentence: Find a way to support small and medium-sized enterprises when public tenders are opened. How? Without prejudice to the principle of competition, provision should be made for each body to have a prior notification, before the competition is officially opened, so that, before them, small and medium-sized enterprises can prepare or create the necessary cooperation between them. Second sentence: At last, reward the good. There are public services and civil servants, who can properly monitor, supervise and receive public works or public procurement at less cost, in less time, with a better quality than that envisaged. Exceptions? Exceptions. However, even these exceptions to reward them for example for the rest of the public sector. Thirdly, the third progressive reform: the technical specifications. We know very well that it is widely released on the market that the services often, when they want to make "game" with some suppliers, set the standards so that there are only one or two candidates to secure the competition on them. We propose before any tender is made public, that its technical specifications should be put into public consultation, for a reasonable period of time and then that the service should take the findings of the public consultation and, in its opinion, make the necessary improvements, which it thinks is necessary. Fourth point: Minister, your article on precursors is missing. It says in it that if the agency decides to do so, we must move on to small contractors, to work forwards. We're asking you for something very clear. It is not up to any public service. You decide to make up your mind, make up your mind. For all public works of more than EUR 10 million, it is compulsory to provide for a small contraction for precursors, expropriations, movements of public utility networks, archaeology, all of this so that we can win from claims and contractors' delays, which we will be sure we will have had no precursors beforehand. The preparatory work, therefore, - to sum up our proposal - on the projects above a budget - we propose that the EUR 10 million should be compulsory and only documented when it cannot do so, documented to refuse it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to a fifth and last observation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have debated the enormous problem of the Brain drain in the light of and the electoral law. With the fact that about four hundred and fifty thousand Greek patriots, scientists, entrepreneurs, have left abroad and contribute EUR 50 billion each year to the gross domestic product of the host countries. We are making a very specific proposal on the basis of and incorporation of these directives. The Greek public, instead of a sanitary of money, funds and jobs, should instead become a generator, a uterus, a fetus, which will give rise to jobs for the private sector. And I want to make it very clear, clear. The Greek public, given that it cannot have the money in the foreseeable future to hire the necessary officials to carry out all the work, all the services that society and the national economy needs, to go ahead with another logic, the logic of the state's headquarters, the logic of the state's project manager, the logic of the state that maintains and monitors the accuracy of the registrars of certified private individuals, auditors, various services, so that from one job, which society requires, the state to control the integrity and transparency of registrants, and the private sector, the scientists in the country, can have an object that has a contribution to the national economy and society. Examples:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u49	You need to finish it, Mr. Maniots.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, give me a little bit and I will not use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u51	It's not like that. It won't be secondary. You're a parliamentarian. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u52	The Energy Inspectors' Corps - we have more than ten thousand energy auditors - the building auditors' body, which controls the reliability of building permits, the environmental inspectors' body is provided for in the legislation and there is a presiding decree. So here, Minister, we are proposing that public works should receive studies, where we see incredible, outrageous discounts of 80% - and that is why we do not have good studies - these studies should receive and control them, together with public services and a body certified, audited, class-based checkers above that which is each study, so that they can be assured that the studies have the quality required. I have tabled two amendments. One concerns the press - we have said it - and we want it to be accepted, Mr Minister, because it is certain that it is not contrary to any Community directive. The second amendment concerns many regions of the country, Heraklion, Ioannina, Volos, Argolida, my place of origin, and the possibility of giving businesses which have to relocate in the next period, in an economic situation that is impossible to allow them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u53	For the amendments you will take the floor in particular, Mr Maniotis, at the time of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. To conclude, I would like to say that yesterday the Prime Minister in Sofia, with Mr. Borisov...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Maniatis, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u57	Yeah, you're done, but you've taken five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u58	The Prime Minister, therefore, told us with great pleasure that he would proceed with the IGB pipeline, the navigable gas plant in Alexandroupolis, as did the TAP. We are pleased with the Prime Minister's statements, except that we would ask that there should be an elementary political bravery and that the Prime Minister, as he has not said, unfortunately, to the TAP, that all these are works that are just launched that his Government, with a delay of one and a half years, is now coming to adopt and incorporate them into its policies. With these thoughts, I repeat, we support this incorporation. But we are totally opposed to the articles on which we objected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u59	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Vardalis Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that public procurement plays an important role, both in the capitalist economy of the European Union and its Member States. In a study by the European Commission in 2011, it is estimated that in the same year expenditure on public procurement in the countries - members of the European Union - amounted to 19% of the Community's gross national product, at which it even fluctuated over the last decade. In the same study, the corresponding figures for our country are estimated to have reached EUR 18.4 billion or 8.8% of GDP. So, on the basis of these two figures it is only understood that the issue that we are discussing is of great economic importance, and so it is a great deal of interest to business monopolies. And that's why? Because in the context of the civil state, public procurement is one of the means by which the state directly reinforces monopolies with state hot money. Money coming from the bleeding of people's income, through taxation and public borrowing, as happened in all previous years in our country, but also in the other Member States of the European Union, of course, from memoranda and the amount of budget deficits or public debt. This objective is to serve, both today's draft law, which we are debating and Directive 24/2014, for the main volume of public procurement and works and services contracts and Directive 25/2014 for public procurement in the water, energy, transport, postal services. After all, this is clear if anyone reads the texts and their recitals. What do the texts themselves say? Firstly, the main objective is to remove all obstacles to free movement, to provide services in all the Member States of the European Union in the single capitalist market. Secondly, to implement in a uniform way all the Member States of the European Union in the public procurement market the four freedoms of movement of capital, i.e. capital, services, goods and workers, which are the fundamental principles of the European Union. And thirdly, to integrate the public procurement sector into the European Union's Europe 2020 strategy, i.e. the anti-grass strategy of capital, which breaks down wages and rights across the European Union to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. These goals are the bill and the other things you all say are other words to be loved. You are trying to blur water, hide from the people that public procurement is an important area of profitable action of business groups, especially in areas such as construction and public works, energy, telecommunications, services and industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the public procurement sector is at the heart of fierce competition between monopolistic groups, both within the European Union and with other imperialist centres and strong capitalist countries. It is also a crucial point of the negotiation between the European Union and the United States of America on the transatlantic agreement with monopolies on both sides of the Atlantic to claim the opening of the markets on both sides of the Atlantic to take over from them. Therefore, another objective of the European Union, which you are doing this too, is to harmonise public procurement rules by means of directives within the European Union, namely to form a single regime in the light of negotiations with the United States of America on the transatlantic agreement. The final point is that this agreement also opens up a huge profitable field for large companies, both in Europe and in the United States of America, which will mainly be based on uniform rules - and this is necessary - with those relating to cheap labour and state aid on uniform terms. With the same aim, the strengthening of monopolies and business groups, the European Union promotes the opening up of public procurement markets both with the former Soviet republics, the south-eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, North Africa and as a whole with third countries such as India, China, Japan, Brazil and others. You are talking about simplifying procedures without saying who. This simplification of procedures does not concern, for example, pensioners and workers who have to stand in line for a simple transaction in IKA by the EEAS. It's not about popular mattresses looking for a bed in a hospital or waiting for four and five months to perform an operation. Because you and your partners in the European Union have made your choice: everything to serve, to facilitate business groups. The government and other opposition parties claim that the draft law and the respective directive help small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. This is one of the great lies you all tell in the small- and medium-sized layers. First of all, I would like to say something that you all of course know about, but you hide it thoroughly. The European Union's definition of small and medium-sized enterprises is mainly about two hundred and five hundred workers, and we are, of course, talking about large companies even in a monopoly position on the market in most of the Member States of the European Union. The main thing, however, is that the above in no way concerns small and medium-sized traders and traders or self-employed persons. Because what excludes them is not, in principle, the so-called ‘regulated’ so-called ‘regulated’ procedures but their inability to compete with major market- dominated groups, and this competition crushes them. So don't do that the pain for small and self-employed professionals and traders has caught you, because they and in the simplest procedures are unable to compete with the big ones. The most - very much that can be done is the creation of a crown of small and medium-sized enterprises around the large ones to undertake on their behalf small public contracts for the execution of which they will be obliged to supply materials, know-how, etc. Of the great, who will be double winners. You all say that directives and bills establish transparency, impartiality and objectivity in the public procurement process and prevent corruption. It's actually exactly the opposite. They leave wide not only windows and doors wide so that large business groups can be treated differently. Not that for us that's the gentleman. Corruption is inherent in capitalism and its state. It will never be eliminated even by the most stringent legislation, because the pursuit of profits is the one that gives rise to and reproduces all the forms and relationships with which business groups will be interconnected with the members of the state mechanism and the civil system. The main thing is that the greatest corruption, the biggest crimes, are the ones made under the rules and laws of the urban state, precisely because they serve the system of exploitation and profitability, namely the legality of the exploitation of the working class and the corresponding capital support, and the provisions of this bill and the directives that they incorporate. You're talking about transparency. What transparency is being mentioned when, for example, a number of different types of procedures, forms and types are envisaged for the award of public contracts? Different contracts according to price levels and according to the contracting authority. You will only see Articles 27 to 32 of the bill and the directive and you will understand how different procedures are already in place. For example, an open procedure, a restricted procedure, a competitive process with negotiation, a competitive dialogue process is being established. A new process is being created, the innovation partnership that almost photographs companies and partnerships that are active in the areas of research and development of new technologies, sectors of high profitability and capital intensity that Euro-Union monopolies, institutions of the European Union, but also urban governments, pay particular attention to seeing prospects of capitalist growth in the environment of today's economic stagnation in the euro area and the European Union in general. Framework agreements are also provided for, whereas ‘dynamic’ purchasing systems for current procurement, such as electronic auctions, electronic lists and others, are provided for in the electronic means of procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, both your partners through the directives and the Government and the opposition parties, which agree with them, deliberately say another great lie, that the directives you incorporate and your bill impose on contractors, etc. respect for labour law. First of all, let us say that you are talking about the ruins of the labour legislation you and your partners, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the quartet - the former Troika - but also the previous PASOK and the New Democracy governments with your obvious barbaric attacks. The second assessment, which will abolish what is left standing, is also in our view the second assessment. In addition to that, however, we must say this: in the case of foreign companies, for services that are employing foreign workers, you know very well that the 2006/123 directive on freedom to provide services in the internal market, namely the Bolkestein directive. What is the substance of this directive? You people of SYRIZA know her very well, because then when she was voting, you were on the tiles! Now, of course, you're garnishing and accepting it even silently, because the mockery of your people has become a habit. I would remind you, however, that the workers who are listening to us do not forget that the country's principle of origin allows the company to apply collective agreements and its labour law to reward workers with their country's wages, etc. So when it comes to businesses that appear, even virtually, to have a seat in Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia and other countries, it gives hunger wages and childcare benefits on the basis of what the labour law of their country lays down. These are your European partners. The same fundamental values you share with them, as with the other urban parties. Let us not, of course, talk about the slave trade offices, the workers' rental companies, which are also provided for by Euro-Union legislation and the one which has been established by PASOK and New Democracy, but also maintains the SYRIZA - ANEL government intact today. In contractors and slave trades for workers, the status of a farce applies by embodiing your vision, which is the one of entrepreneurship. The construction of the metro in Thessaloniki was used as a pilot for the generalization of the elastic working forms as a whole in construction. The construction consortium gave part of the work to subcontractors. Over the years the hundreds of workers who have been working, both in the archaeological work and in the construction part of the project, have been under severe attack on their rights, redundancies, wage cuts, rotating work, forced unpaid leave, long-term delays in payments, abolition of specialties, extension of daily working time by half an hour and others. Not only do Directives provide for nothing for the protection of workers from subcontractors, but they do not even oblige the contracting authorities to consider whether they fulfil the conditions to be met by undertakings participating in tendering for public contracts, leaving it to their discretion and goodwill. To sum up, the crucial and decisive issue of both Directives 24 and 25/2014 and the bill incorporating them, their "heart," is the opening up of public procurement markets in all Member States. In other words, every business group based in any Member State of the European Union can participate in the procedures for awarding public contracts or concession contracts in any Member State of the European Union, without - but without - any obstacle. This was, of course, done very much with the previous legal status of the European Union for public procurement. The new directives, however, seek to simplify bureaucratic procedures, which in many legislations, such as the Greek one, were dazzling and any procedural obstacles which posed problems for companies to participate in the relevant procedures. In addition, a single framework of rules is established for all Member States to facilitate these business groups. In other words, the directives are cut and sewn, in short, into the interests of large business groups. Of course, here we are talking about the awards, both in the public sector, which are wider and narrow, but also in all levels of local administration, all public bodies. It is therefore clear that we are also voting against this draft law in principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u61	Let me inform you about this: several colleagues in the Chamber are either rapporteurs or special speakers and must go to the Committee of Inquiry on loans. In consultation with the main ministers, the Ministers agreed to exhaust the list of thirteen colleagues and then to speak, with the exception of Mr Paraskevi, which I will give him the floor as soon as the special speakers have finished for a few minutes to support the articles relating to him. Parliamentary representatives, as soon as speakers are finished, are entitled either then, during the speeches or after the ministers, if you wish to choose it, and in some ways, you will be here today. I'm saying it to set your schedule. You're free to choose when you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u62	Just do us one favor. To inform the Committee of Inquiry your colleagues when the Minister will speak so that we can...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u63	When the time comes, namely the last speaker, we will be telling you that after seven or eight minutes the ministers will speak. Here you go, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u64	I have a Committee on the Rules of Procedure at 12.00 p.m. and I have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u65	Okay. For whatever reason you're missing. Mr. Brutsi, don't you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u66	If I can get an update.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u67	Yeah, yeah. You'll be briefed by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u68	One more thing, Mr President. The debate is progressing very normally. There is convergence on the issue of the vote. But if there are any amendments, we need to be informed in time, we need to know which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u69	Now, don't soak weeds. We said don't look at each other! We have no ministerial amendments. It's three parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u70	Just so we know. Even law-enforcement. Anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u71	Yeah. This is a matter for the Bureau. Leave it, since we're going like this now. Don't look alone! The special speaker from the Potami, George Amyras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you will not let us sanctify. We are positive about the draft law which incorporates European directives, but we are not positive at all in the urgency process. We have also told you in the committees. Another delayed transposition of European law into the Greek legislation of Directives 24 and 25/2014 regulating the hot issue of public procurement for supply and service works, including water, energy, transport and postal services. Just before the House closes, we come ashore, would anyone say, to deal with what? Something that we have been doing for decades now: the core of corruption and interlocutory in Greece, which is nothing but public procurement. The parties went and came for decades, the various great-workers danced the Greek political scene or part, anyway, of the political scene. For years we should have taken the first necessary steps as a step towards self-determination of the political world and self-respect. All right, then, now that we also have European law, which, in any case, we incorporate into Greek legislation and go a little further ahead of the war against corruption. I remind you that these directives should have been incorporated, as I had told you in committees, into Greek law by 17 April 2016. Then the deadline was over. It's been four months, you've been a year and a half government, you've been gone again. But anyway, we will say, let Europe be good. And, for the first time, I will tell you in public here, Mr Stathakis - let the third memorandum be well - the Tsipras - Kammenos memorial, as reflected in L.4336, because there is an explicit provision and provision there, which says that the effectiveness of the public procurement system must be improved immediately and that an action plan must be agreed. It's n.4336. So I would say that thankfully there is Europe and it is for us to do things that we should have done first of all. I would also like to add that, based on the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, European directives are mandatory for the Member States, even if they have not incorporated them within these deadlines and thus have legal effects. This is of great importance, especially now that we have competitions in progress, for projects through the RSR that are running. I would also like to point out the absence of two bodies from hearing the bodies: the Athens Bar Association and the BSE. They had serious reservations. We didn't have a chance to hear them alive. On the substance of the draft law, we think there are good points. There's an attempt to simplify some procedures. We, the Potami, stress that we need further consolidation of the rules in the model of a public procurement code, as is the case in other European countries that I have presented to you in the committees. I come here to say 'Good Europe'. For the first time, we are in Europe, because this draft law, which incorporates the European acquis, has provisions for the adequacy, staffing and training of officials from the technical services required to implement this law in order to ensure that it is properly implemented. It shall contain provisions on disciplinary proceedings for officials who are delaying or applying incompletely or neglecting their duties in relation to public procurement. So far it's been unavoidable. Whatever they wanted to do, they didn't. These are some reform steps that our country needs. But there is also a need for clarification on a number of issues. We had discussed and stressed from Potami the need to maintain no special provision of previous laws, such as Laws 3316/2005 and 3669/2008 on public works and n.d.118/2007 on procurement. We do not want to be faced with demons of the past, with ghosts of intertwining, contractors, politicians, journalists and others. I also have to make it clear that we, of course, will vote in favour of the principle, but we will not vote for any positive articles that we believe change the spirit and letter of the European directives. Now, with regard to how to record and structure of individual articles, I would say that there are difficulties in some articles and that the official would need to deal with such cases a great deal of experience and knowledge of the subject, in order to identify, in each case, the applicable provisions. I bring you, for example, Article 76(b) and (d), which are the criteria for selecting public works contracts, which I would say we need the Minister's help to understand. I also want to take stock of my concerns and ask for clarification that, perhaps in the application of the law, old pathogens are on the surface. And I would explain: For example, the arrangements of the Greek registries, in my view, do not promote innovation and development, but preserve the country's technological dependence, and while there is recognition of the distortions of the registers in the special report accompanying the draft law with the conclusions of the public consultation and refer to addressing them in a new law, the provisions of this draft law actually prejudge the new law that will come and reproduce intact the arrangements of the existing registers. The absence of a register of design and compulsory partnership - Article 197 scholars and contractors with arbitrators or Pontius Pilate, if you wish, the contracting authorities are the main source of corruption and they are completely out of the spirit and letter of the directives. 'Good Europe', I will say again, because the draft law incorporates a European tactic for the use of the national electronic procurement system, which is quite right. An online link to General Accounting, National Insurance Authorities Database and other national networks has been provided for the effective functioning of this system. Hard work. It requires high expertise, high technology, time and specialized service for its development and implementation. However, there is no provision in this draft law on how, when, how. On the contrary, a number of presidential decrees and ministerial decisions are envisaged on matters of fundamental importance for the implementation of the law and the functioning of the system on CDs, but there is no final date for the adoption of these, which makes us sceptical and leads us, in practice, to the application of the law now before us and to the postponement of the implementation of this draft law. In the transitional provisions, please indicate that the scheme is valid until the necessary decisions are taken. Let's go to book IV, now, to articles 345-374 with the new principle of examining the references for preliminary rulings. First of all, I must tell you that we disagree with the great mandate you give the members. Seven years to the president?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u73	We're gonna change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u74	Will you change it? Good! Otherwise we would bring up the President of the Republic. Okay, it's very positive that you change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u75	So here's an amendment. Legislative!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u76	But there is another matter, Minister, which we want to tell you. Well, listen, in Article 349, you say that the members of this principle will be full and full-time. Right? Why, though, in Article 23 of the law which we voted on just a week ago on cyberspace and crime, you say that it is exceptionally permissible for members of the independent authorities - which are something more important and stronger than that of you - to appoint them without suspending their academic duties and activities? I mean, just to say it, a university professor can continue to be a university professor and a member of the PSE, for example, or a member of the ASP. Why are you saying here that the members of the Proceedings Committee should be exclusively employed? What is the meaning and content of this arrangement? We also believe that the thirty-three people's planned staff are insufficient. And we have also proposed to the committee that the Public Procurement Authority should also be able to assist in the work of this Committee. It shall be responsible for the processing and approval of notices, bodies and audits of applicable provisions and procedures. In Article 54, which I particularly pointed out, the European directive speaks of the technical specifications of the projects which must take into account the needs of equal and easy access to and accessibility of disabled people. So what does the European text say? That for all supplies intended for use by natural persons, the technical specifications shall be drawn up in such a way as to take account of the accessibility criteria for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u77	And we accepted that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u78	Did you accept that, too? That's great! Two o'clock so far. It's good that you've taken it and it's good that you hear us a little, because we've shot you, not you personally - and I'm referring metaphorically and not literally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u79	Zero before the end... Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u80	...with ideas, suggestions and a thousand more and you never take them into consideration. I'm glad you're getting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u81	Two o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u82	Two in two so far. Now, can I ask a third one? Tell me five numbers at Joker. I'll put him in the sixth. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Well, I'm on it. I was saying that it is a bill that has brought the right rules and European regulations, of course, with a delay of decades, I would say to you, but it has contradictions in some respects. I hope there are no last-minute amendments. We believe - and I close with this - that the simplification of the legislative framework, the uniform application by all those who award public contracts, has scope for improvement in order to be more satisfactory and not to miss the opportunity, given also the delay in harmonisation. We say: be careful not to introduce exceptions and derogations at the last minute, which will lead to a re-establishment of a setting with a intensity of intertwined and dark points. We must not end the attempt at pluralism and not inactivate the law. I insist that we need further consolidation of the rules. We will always - and we will fight for them - be openness, flexibility, simplicity, competitiveness both in the application of the law and the provisions which it provides, but above all in the elimination of the gangrene, which is very common in the field of procurement and procurement, which is not just internal information. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider that the country's European footing is slow. It needs to be done with faster steps, more intensive, more aware and where the political forces can consent - good time, as here - to address the black holes, both political and society, and especially the economy in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u83	Well, Ministers, because I realized that you're going to make legislative improvements and because I was also informed that you still had them there and you haven't sent them to Mr. Kalleros, please very much, and Mr. Saridis, that is, after half an hour, send them so that the legislatures won't be deposited at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, some legislators are asking for them and the appropriate legal treatment must be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u85	Good. Okay, we didn't accuse you of coming just before the vote. That's what I said. We proceed with Mr. Georgios Lazarides, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to my position, I would like to point out first of all that this bill has a very large consensus, an absolute consensus, I would say, in general, of almost all the parties, from all sides of this House. I would also like to highlight a few elements. This draft law ensures, firstly, transparency. Transparency is an element which over the years has been lacking from what has to do with either works contracts or concessions or supplies. They were, in fact, moving within a foggy context - we are talking about the past - which gave us the opportunity for corruption, strife, agreements under the table, in general all that we are all highlighting and all that is the main cause, which has brought us into this situation. That is why we all agree that the draft law is positive and that is precisely why it ensures transparency. What I would like to point out, as I have already pointed out in committee, is that the representatives of the institutions have all been positively opposed to the bill. I would like to stand as an engineer for getting an end to these excessive discounts at last. That is to say, all engineers were sitting in front of this phenomenon, and we could not often explain it and say: Or something is wrong as regards the one who laid the rules, the conditions for the contest, which, in any case, cost the work or study or something else is going on. We saw discounts in studies 80% and over and in projects 50%, 60%. In other words, phenomena that could not be justified by anything. So I want to stand here and say that at last it will be ensured that the cost is correct, because we see that the Technical Chamber also proposes that an algorithm be used and left the mathematical formula, which proved to be not working properly. I would like to stand here and now: at last, with this bill, we will have the opportunity to see projects in a faster time and with a better quality, but also at a lower cost. Also, to fill in something else here. It also needs attention at the cost of using, not only at construction costs, so that we do not have the phenomena, which we have on tolls, where, for example, we see a route went - oil Thessaloniki - Athens to cost for an IX car only for tolls, i.e. at the end of the crossing, 65 euros. If you count 25 euros a mixed piece of money, we're talking about two and a half days, that is, two and a half days' pay for a citizen to go and come Thessaloniki - Athens with his IX car. If we go to the big cars, to the trucks that move goods, products, etc., that's where we're talking about around 350 euros. You realise that the sizes are very large, which are borne by both products and goods, etc. So everything else, rather than development, is such a level of transit fees. This toll height also creates the phenomenon of using side roads. In other words, it became a long, modern, fast road, which is really safe and ultimately not used. The vast majority use the side roads, resulting in the environment being burdened with, the provincial roads being loaded too much and seeing them pass through villages large dulls, ruining these provincial roads, and - I leave for the end the most important - to be at great risk of accidents, because these provincial roads were not for such a move. Now I want to add something else. Unfortunately, this phenomenon also occurs with foreign cars, i.e. with trucks coming from other countries with signs using the national road network and not paying anything, leaving nothing for the use of the road network. Here I would like to propose - and it is something that we should see, because it is important - together with the way in which we are talking about reducing tolls, looking at another measure, which uses many countries in Europe, such as Austria, for example, Switzerland, the so-called vinyl one. In other words, by entering cars with foreign plates to pay this so-called right to cross, to use the road network better and if they choose the provincial network, they have no problem and a possible control of the traffic will not impose a fine on them for the lack of the vignette or traffic. If they choose the modern road network they will also pay the fees paid by each Greek citizen. The Greek citizen also pays traffic charges, pays tolls. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2014 new Public Procurement Directives are the most recent stage in a series of legislation, which demonstrates the constant effort of the European Union and its Member States to rationalise the use of public resources and continuously strengthen genuine competition, one of the basic principles of the European construction. Public procurement has over time absorbed a significant proportion of a country's gross national product and, therefore, the budgetary and political need to regulate public procurement is imperative. The Community regulatory framework, which governs public procurement, as it has been shaped since the adoption of the 2014 Directives, makes the relevant procedures simpler and more effective for both contracting public authorities and for businesses with a view to the best price-quality ratios, in accordance with the principles of transparency and sound competition. The contracting authorities are given greater power to negotiate the terms of the contract and to simplify the rules for the authorities, but also for companies. We are clearly seeing a change in the direction and diversification of the new institutional framework of public procurement, in relation to the previous one, which is to transform the main award criterion from the most economically advantageous offer to a better price-quality ratio, as laid down in Directive 24/2014/EU. Furthermore, the award criteria do not provide the contracting authority with unlimited freedom of choice and are not solely based on economic criteria, but should be put in such a way as to ensure the possibility of genuine competition and be accompanied by arrangements enabling effective verification of the information provided by the tenderers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government proceeds to modernise the framework for all public procurement, with a view to facilitating access to small and medium-sized enterprises, ensuring the integrity of procedures, reducing bureaucracy and fully electronicising the system by spring 2017. It goes on to modernise, but in particular to establish a single institutional framework for procedures for the award, award and execution of public works contracts, procurement for public bodies and for OTAs. Report here that the institutional framework for public procurement in 2012 had resulted in four hundred different legislation in the Greek legal order concerning public procurement. The first and most important aim, then, of this bill could be to say that it is to limit the impact of pluralism. In particular, we engineers, who, on account of their professions, had very frequent contact with the public services, have experienced this phenomenon of polynomialism very often, where we saw the same subject of one civil servant dealing with it in one way and after a few days on the same subject, in the same case another official applying a different way. Not to say that a third party had the potential to find a third of his own way. Many times they also chose to block the resolution of a matter completely. That is why the blow to pluralism is crucial. Here I would like to add that this is the main cause of corruption and money laundering many times in the public sector, a phenomenon that all Greek citizens have experienced over the years in public services. Another point is that, with these provisions, we aim to reduce the cost of the study, in terms of public works, in reducing the costs of the construction study, in improving the times and in improving the quality of public works, because the administrative burden, resulting from the need to produce a significant number of certificates - very importantly, this point - or other documents relating to the exclusion criteria and the selection criteria and making it compulsory to use the e-CERTIS electronic system, which is intended to facilitate the exchange of certificates and other evidence with Articles 79, 81. For the first time, Article 18 of the bill under discussion embedded in our regulatory framework environmental, social and labour requirements of the public procurement procedure, i.e. social and environmental criteria, which make clear the need for any company that is traded with the State to comply fully with environmental, insurance and labour legislation. The company involved in public contracts, which violates environmental, insurance and labour law, is now excluded or excluded, even if it is in the process of carrying out a contract, and the matter of changing the company is raised. More specifically, the main features of the new legal framework, as they arise from the Community directives under discussion, are the following areas: Provisions on the enforcement of concessions, Article 165 of Directives 24 and 25, which lay down certain provisions reconciling the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to subcontracting, the conditions for the conclusion of the concessions contract for the purpose of restoring distortions of competition and the requirements of an authorised amendment without a new award procedure. In enhanced publicity and information, Article 260 of Directives 24 and 25, the draft law defines the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts of the KIM as the only mandatory point of publication of all stages of contracts. At national level, of course, the publication of notices in other publications or electronic means of communication on a voluntary basis remains possible. The use of the FYROM as a tool for the publication of contracts will facilitate the information of business opportunities stakeholders and will help establish an electronic contract database and serve as a key tool for extracting reliable statistics. In addition, in the direction of increasing transparency, free, unlimited and complete direct access is provided by electronic means to the tender documents in accordance with internationally established best practices. In the fight against corruption, Article 340 of Directives 24 and 25, the draft law introduces comprehensive arrangements and guarantees of transparency to combat fraud, conflicts of interest, cosmopolitanism and corruption, which may arise in procurement procedures, thereby preventing the occurrence of breaches or anti-contractual behaviours in order to shield the public interest and achieve the selection of reliable contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u87	Slow down, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u88	I shall now end, Mr President. Wait a minute for your tolerance. You see, I'm speeding up. Flexible award procedures, Article 341 of Directives 24 and 25. Acknowledging the specificities of the contracts, in relation to the traditional public contracts, in terms of both awarding and execution, and in particular their financing, the draft law does not prescribe a specific award procedure, but allows for the specialisation of the concessionaire’s terms and procedures and the performance of the contract to be specified in the tender documents and in contractual issues, each time assessing the specific needs of the contract. I'm going over someone to speed up, Mr. President. And I'm closing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u89	You've reached eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u90	I'll be there in a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, public procurement has always been a crucial field, both political and budgetary, of a country. In addition, the recent fiscal crisis, which is stirring up the global, but also the European economy, has highlighted, not only unresolved economic problems, but also public administration, institutions and resources management problems. In this context, the size in which public procurement can define, not only the function but also the morality of a country's public administration is demonstrated. Public sector resources have proved to be - and have never been - unlimited and therefore have to be made available wisely. However, public procurement has never ceased to be a field of corruption, fraud and the fragmentation of public money. This draft law aims to establish a stable legislative framework for the award and execution of works and studies, ensuring transparency, open procedures and the development of genuine and healthy competition. The Independent Greeks support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u91	We have reached the last special speaker from the Centroon Association. Mr. Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first time the Greeks heard it, they heard it as a hint, "It would be nice to move on to reforms". This soon changed and the political discovery prevailed that the country needs reforms. Over the last few decades, all Greek governments have been calling themselves "reform" and addressing the citizens, claiming that we have been going slow, but stable, on very difficult reforms. The years have passed and we have come to the point where foreign lips, in foreign languages, explain with strong tone to the Greeks that Greece is obliged to carry out reforms. It is necessary, of course, also in the European Union, but in Greece much more. All democratic forces, all political groups, while arguing for decades, from the first day of post-population and then, in favour of the need for the reforms, did not go forward with the necessary reforms or went too far, so that we are now being imposed on us under a special national extortion regime. The Centro Association insisted - and it continues to insist - on the need for reforms. But the first change should be to restore the relationship of words with their meanings. But we say, but the people are listening. And it's the parties' fault. It is the responsibility of all the political parties, which extends far behind for many years. The mistreatment of the word'reform' has led to distortions in political life. Any Greeks who ask what the word "reformation" means will answer you a little frustrated and in words perhaps inappropriate, but if you are patient and listen, you will reach the safe conclusion that for Greek citizens today the word "reforms" is "red cloth" and is translated about "unreasonable and unreasonable political actions that lead to almost always blind, unreasonable and unscheduled cuts in all kinds of Greek family incomes". This means "reforms" to the Greek taxpayer. Every time, then, when we talk about reform, Greek citizens feel threatened. In view of this truth, I understand as an active citizen the need to resist the dissolution of the social fabric caused by the break-up of the project relationship and by reasons of politics. Anyone who is consciously serving democracy must unite with those who calmly try to restore logic and objectivity as a basis for public dialogue, excluding populism. The strength of democratic institutions is being tested at European level. Today it will be difficult to convince the Greeks that what we are discussing is worth hearing and taking care of them. This is because today we are talking about reforms in the conclusion and execution of public contracts, public works, concessions, etc. When we talk in Greece about these issues, then the subject of discussion is usually complex and corruption. It is almost impossible to talk about public works, public procurement, public procurement, public concessions, without dealing with the legitimate distrust of our fellow citizens. As this distrust seems invincible, many choose to resort to populism, as they see that arguments are no longer heard. It is in this way that this situation is perpetuating our democracy. We must bring the arguments back to the political debate. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Today, therefore, after many adventures and with the delay of commenting, the two European directives arrived in plenary and Tuesday, the closest will come tomorrow. These are three very important directives, which are a framework that leaves national parliaments wide margins, and effectively regulates issues relating to public works, public procurement and public procurement. We all recognize that. This is a solution that comes from Europe, helping national parliaments to ensure transparency and efficiency in their public investment. The incorporation of these directives is therefore with the agreement of almost all the democratic forces of Parliament. Today, without depriving us of our national sovereignty, even without undue delay, it turns out that democratic European institutions can offer real, real solutions. What we have not been able to do on our own is help us achieve it as a Member State of the European family, without actually imposing it on us. Who disagrees that all procedures should have been completed, which may delay a public project before it is auctioned? Who'd argue in the past? And yet, we arrived in 2016 to decide that we need to make sure that we do not give the contractors an excuse to delay. This, of course, after money and time have not been wasted. Who can argue in favour of there being no time limit on the execution and delivery of a public project as referred to in Article 17? What, then, were we expecting when we signed almost indefinite public works contracts? There we came sometimes, with various tricks that the law itself allowed. Was it possible to deliver these works on time? In recent years a lot has changed. This, of course, is on a good road, but in recent years it has been the years of the memorials. What Greece did not manage to do on its own, had to come the memorials enforce them to guide it in some cases on a better path. On the basis of our harmonisation with European law, we are taking a step in the fight against bureaucracy and opaqueness. Just the codification of the definitions and the stringing of over three hundred legislation, which set up the framework of pluralism around public procurement, are a strong blow and a clear response to democracy in the conditions, which keeps opacity and, as a result, complexity and corruption. These simple moves could have been done for many years. The responsibility of the designer no longer ends at the time he delivers his study, but remains a technical supervisor for the project, is responsible for his study until the completion of his work and compulsoryly corrects his mistakes if they exist and appear in the performance of the project. If this very simple thing had been decided on our own, it would not be a joke and the underwater of Thessaloniki, along with the metro and the port. Thessaloniki has suffered from the words ‘public works contracts’, ‘studies, constructions’, etc. A special reference is worth trying - and everything shows that will be effective and we too hope - to exploit the new technologies, the Internet and the valuable know-how of the Greek government's executives and services. The Central Register of Public Contracts, the National System of Electronic Public Contracts are a strong foundation for transparency. Their effective functioning will be a real intersection and will strengthen efforts to reduce the smuggling effects of public resources. The adoption of electronic draws is also very positive, as a way of highlighting the members of the relevant Responsibility Committees, while at the same time being excluded from the participation of representatives of the relevant body. At the same time, rating is abolished and the PASS/FAIL system is adopted, which puts an end to corruption. The contracting entity's technical competence is now required. The establishment and creation of the Conservation and Operational File is indeed a very important step, which, however obvious it may seem, has not taken place until today. The fragmentation of works and studies with clear rules, as is apparent from the corrections and legislative improvements made by the Government, the creation and maintenance of a register and the process of electronic draw-up, all confirm the positive sign of this bill. We believe it is very right that all the tenders should be consulted, and we believe that the introduction to the Greek practices of the European Single Documentation Convention are steps that match our country's scientific culture. We will be forced, for very specific reasons, to keep our reservations, which will be justified by our parliamentary representative later, on Articles 50 and 128 of this House. Also, in the chapter on legal protection in the award of public contracts, we do not agree with the way you understand the principle of prejudicial obligations. We believe that it is a luxurious and embarrassing principle, which we do not know whether it will have the results that you have in your mind, Minister. And in that, our parliamentary representative will be placed. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words, addressing the famous technical sector. The technical sector has been ruthlessly hit over the last decade. The technical sector has something to hope for, essentially, from today. The rules that enter into the technical world are aid to the technical world. This has also been done with the encouragement and assistance of Europe, but also with the agreement of almost the whole political world. Today's law is very powerful, we all support it. This is the power of democracy, that is the power of the United Greeks. That is what the Centroon Union is talking about when it talks about cooperation, in the light of the common good alone. As we have been able today to proceed almost unanimously with an agreement on what is good for Greece, we must and we must also have a responsibility to do in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u93	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. During my speech, I will also announce a legislative improvement, which is essential in terms of the term of office of the President of the authority, which is now recommended. However, the text of the legislative improvements is ready. It has also been passed by the Secretariat-General and I can now deliver it for its timely distribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u95	The fourth book of the bill under discussion refers to the legal protection, which accompanies the conclusion of a public contract. The draft law makes important changes to the system, which has existed so far. As you know, our country had a piece of legislation, it had an institutional framework, which governed public procurement, Law 2522/97, which also provided for temporary protection of complainers, contractors and complainers, and a final cancellation procedure. The characteristic of the procedure provided for was that the person concerned should first refer to the contracting authority and have an administrative action, the so-called reference procedure, and subsequently, if he was not satisfied with the decision of the contracting authority, he could apply for interim measures before administrative justice and, of course, reach the annulment procedure. This procedure anticipated before had raised two important problems. One problem was delays. This was due to the fact that during the old procedure, in fact, we had, in a case of infringement of the public procurement procedure, three stages of jurisdiction. One stage was before the administration, the assessment of the references by the contracting authority itself. The second was the security measures before the courts, which, because they had the object and the likelihood of the application being based on security measures, led to a genuine trial. And the third stage was the cancellation process. In addition to the delay, which resulted in the prediction of three stages of crisis in these cases, a second problem was that in some cases - in most cases - it seemed that during the assessment of administrative action, we had control over controls. In fact, it was very rare. And it is difficult and logically and psychologically to conceive that the one who has contributed to the creation of an act will then come to control himself. However, this was done on the basis of the scheme, which was previously in force. So we have come to an attempt to reform the framework of public procurement control in order to tackle the deceleration and coincidence of the audited and audited. This could be the case, when assessing those who worked to form the bill, only if a new independent authority could be set up, which could assess complaints, applications, appeals against crises, the procedure of the contracting authority or the principle of the protection of public procurement. The draft law, which is currently under your discretion, therefore abolishes the reference for a preliminary ruling before the contracting authority. Provision is made for statements of applications for interim measures brought before the courts, mostly before the administrative appeals and, in exceptional circumstances, rather - at least in quantitative terms - that would lead to the smallest number of applications for annulment - before the Council of State. Of course, if the commander has serious objections - and their seriousness is seen by the amount involved in the cancellation - the Council of State is established. The threshold after which the competence of the Council of State arises is EUR 15 million. While also the Council of State will lead those conventions which are based on public-private partnerships, which, of course, have a great institutional complexity. An effort has been made in drawing up the draft law on the provision of this principle to ensure that this principle is genuinely independent. In order to ensure this, the Committee of Institutions and the Transparency Committee of the Parliament will be consulted and its members will be elected by the AACC. The same legislation, of course, describes in a detailed way the way in which the other members and those working within the Authority are represented and appointed. It is precisely because it is a question of setting up a new body, that is, this bill is innovative, which is why some questions have so far been heard, which seem to me reasonable, and that is why I am trying to give an answer. Let me say that, of course, precisely because we are dealing with an innovation, a question preceded by a question to the Council of State, to its administrative plenary, in order to give an opinion on the constitutionality of the bill. The Council of State has indeed made observations, in particular with regard to the degree of documentation of the choices of the draft law, but also with regard to the competence of the Council of State, which was judged to be burdened by that court with a lot of material. In these observations of the Council of State, the Legislative Committee has been complied with, and so the documentation is there, precisely showing the deceleration that existed to date, on the basis of the old institutional regime, but has also changed the association of competence between administrative appeals and the Council of State - on the two criteria that I have previously set - and more than the larger number of cases, the large wave of cases will be channelled to the administrative courts. One question which has been raised is why we need a new beginning and could not have been the existing Public Procurement Control Authority, EFSA, to have the role of assessing the relevant appeals and issues. Here the answer - not the full one, but the original one - is that in principle the creation of an independent body, which will assess the appeals against the choices made by EASA or the contracting authority, was also an obligation of the country provided for in L.4336/2015. In accordance with the relevant arrangement, the reform of these disputed instruments should enter into force by December 2016. The Greek side has cooperated with the European draft law and has reached this plan, which we believe ensures both speeding up and impartiality. One question also raised was why this instrument should not be the existing EACH. The answer is: As is apparent from the current legislation and the size to which it is maintained, EASA has competence in respect of the supervision and coordination of the activities of management bodies in the field of public procurement and in general, on policy-making in the relevant field. Therefore, the same principle, which shapes politics and goes on to the necessary actions, could not have been control, because we would have had the known problem again. Another issue that was raised was why we should only have a central body and not a scattered one. I think that this in a historical horizon will allow the development of a uniform case-law, which will also contribute to speed. A question was also raised in relation to the long term of the President's term of office. It is planned for seven years. In the debate before us today, in the committees, we have heard the thoughts or reservations of Members, and that is why the legislative improvements I have tabled also include a reduction in the term of office of the President of the authority that is now being created in five years and, respectively, a reduction in the term of office of the first members to three instead of five years. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This principle was chosen to be legal, because this principle deals only with matters of legality. Therefore, the assessment tool that it needs is mainly annoying law. Of course, in fact, in the GSP there is a transfer of the old institution of interim measures before the courts, where differences were assessed only by lawyers, i.e. by judges. I think that the relatively long duration - like the five-year-old - is a respected duration. It allows the President to acquire the necessary experience to carry out his work. As long as, for some other thoughts I have heard today concerning the incompatibility or not with the exclusive employment of members of the authority, the exclusive authority here is, of course, due to the fact that the members, who will previously come as freelance professionals, may or may continue to have an activity which, because of their activities at their offices, would bring them into conflict with their mission and their duties under the principle. That is why it was preferable for full employment to exist on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u96	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Loverdos, are you asking for the floor as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u99	Yes, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u100	Because Mr. Dannelis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I am not asking why I should like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u102	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u103	I had informed Mr. Kaklamani that we were on the committee of inquiry. I had also asked him, when a Minister took the floor, to inform us in committee. But that was not the case, so I lost the first three minutes of Mr. Paradise. I also informed the President that, when Mr Paradise speaks, I will ask him a question which will determine my statement. Can I do it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u104	Of course, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u105	Minister, with regard to this Authority, the Proceedings Review Authority, is there any chance of considering that the applicant to it, who will not be justified, will not apply to the Council of State? Because I understood it as a way of gaining time and avoiding legal obstacles, which have long delays and so on. If this is done, I would like, please, very much, before we call this afternoon, to tell us how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, can I answer for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u107	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u108	As I said, Mr Loverdo, at the beginning of my position before my speech, in fact, three procedures are condensed into two. It is for the national court to determine whether an application for annulment may be submitted subsequently, provided that the judgment of the institution concerned is not satisfied. However, these are only the two crises, which can lead to a time-lag. The application for suspension of the annulment proceedings only concerns the economic party, irreparable losses, and does not lead to an autonomous procedure. And this measure is a shortcut. In no way, that is to say, there is no end to legal protection by appealing to the Council of State or to the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u109	The European Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Dannelis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 July we were talking from this Step on the unidentified expressions of undetermined solidarity, who considered their right to take over the establishment of the ADR and to vandalise them undisturbedly, as did the City Hall of Thessaloniki. On July 22nd, we came back from here, after the undisturbed 'Ruvikon' to the Turkish Embassy. But what is this today with the publication of secret documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? And it gets a lot more dangerous. How was that leak? Let's not go on with this. We were then wondering, on 27 July, whether tolerance and impunity were due to operational failure or to the ideological approach to good and therefore - supposedly - tolerable left violence and lawlessness. It is followed by the police takeover operation in three Thessaloniki buildings, which is accompanied by the unprecedented announcement of the time - a complaint by SYRIZA to his Government for state authoritarianism. It seems unprecedented, even in the surrealistic reality of our times. This, of course, does not prevent the unacceptable occupation of the office of the ruling parties in Thessaloniki. And the day before yesterday, a group of supposedly anti-determinationists exercises the greatest power - their violence, of course - in a religious worship area - and this is unprecedented in our place - in Metropolis, Thessaloniki. In the history of flirting or even tolerance to violence and lawlessness, dear friends of SYRIZA, there is no discount in the name of any solidarity and any anti-individual conception of repressive policy. Toys with violence and its discernment in fair and unfair, regardless of expression and intensity lead to conflictual rhetoric and practice, to the division of society after all. Toys with violence poisoned Greek society in the years of antimony anger, familiarizing it with it. Some time ago, propaganda and the ban on speech to Mr Katrugalo - and I am referring only to him as an inspiring theorist of acceptable violence, because of the sacred popular anger against the greater violence of the memorials, as he said at the time - should have made you wiser and wiser. The Left must finally end with its open accounts with the violence that's been chasing her from the past. Of course, he should deny the beans and the dangerous micro-communism of some of the power techniques that fish in the blurred water of the anti-subsidy area. I heard this morning - that's another one! - the statement by the Minister responsible for higher education to compare, for no reason, unparalleled phenomena, saying that he prefers the occupations to us from the violent eruptions in Paris. Why is it so confusing and embarrassing about issues that should be absolutely clear to all of us? You must not be a fan of the doctrine of 'law and order', to realise that a balance is required between the rule of law, rights, namely, security, protection of public and private property, and, of course, democratic conquests, such as the right to freedom of expression. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, everything is at risk together. Let me come to today's bill. Today's bill attempts to incorporate into national law the provisions of Directives - 24 and 25/2014 - concerning public works contracts, supplies, studies and services, including water, energy, transport and postal services. It is clear that these are two very important directives, since they relate to a very large part of our country's economic activity. A part, in fact, of a long-standing activity in the past by various phenomena of corruption, interoperable and opaque public money management. Note that general government expenditure on public procurement accounts for 20% to 30% of its expenditure, while in recent years it has been estimated that between 10% to 15% of GDP. The incorporation of these directives covers issues which may arise in the programming, award and execution of a public contract. In any case, integration is in the right direction, having grouped and singled out all cases of public procurement and the relevant applicable provisions. Thus, they are introduced into national law for the first time provisions on adequacy and competence and education, as well as officials of the technical services of the bodies required to implement this law, in order to ensure its timely and proper implementation. The provisions relating to the disciplinary proceedings of officials who are delaying or applying incompletely or neglecting their duties shall also be positive in relation to public procurement. In other words, the incorporation of the two directives is attempting to ensure transparency, dignity and speed up procedures in public procurement. And I think that's what we're all asking. However, we cannot see any weaknesses. While implementation of this draft law requires the establishment of a series of registers such as the register of technical officials, the register of public contracts, electronic lists, etc., which require time and support structures to function, the main text does not appear to have all of this planned. The draft law provides for the general use of the National System of Electronic Public Procurement - ESA - something we certainly do not disagree with. In order to function effectively, however, it is necessary to connect it to the national services networks, such as the General Accounting Office of the State, the Special Integrated Information System Service, the National Data Base and other insurance authorities. The play is hard. It requires high technology, time and specialized service for its development and implementation and there is no provision for how and when this will be achieved. And, of course, it is always problematic for every draft law - and for the moment, where we want to shorten the years for its implementation - when it provides for the adoption of a multitude of presidential decrees and ministerial decisions on matters of fundamental importance for its implementation. In addition, in Book IV, Articles 345 to 374, the Independent Procedural Authority is hereby established. The authority shall have as its task the examination and resolution of disputes arising at the stage prior to the conclusion of a contract, following a preliminary appeal by the party concerned. And that is because we all know - and it has troubled us and it has cost us extremely expensive - the pace of the judicial system and the resolution of disputes. However, there are issues of this principle, in relation to staff too. The selection of thirty people from the AACC, as foreseen, does not include specificities, which we believe will be necessary for the proper functioning of the new authority and, of course, for centralisation, the atheist-centric character. We agree, of course, with the amendment you have made, Minister. Seven years were an exaggeration. Five years are reasonable, because there must also be continuity and stability and an experience. Fill in for the designs. Those of us, as technicians, have exercised principle, know that it has always been a nursery. And it has always been a request from the technical world to limit and control the scope of this institution, which, unfortunately, has retreated very quickly and could be useful. As it is a nursery, inter-territorial and corruption and production of extremely expensive works of dubious value, I think that what it is about to do with the structures should be more clearly defined and a rule that has tended to be made at some point in time to relate to certain exceptions. The committee, which was set up at the time, I think it has given a considerable amount of work and its proposals would be useful today. Ladies and gentlemen, at every opportunity, for a year and a half now, I would remind you that the absolute priority lies in creating the conditions for the development of healthy entrepreneurship, particularly after the bankruptcy of the state, of which everything depends. The incorporation of these directives is an instrument of rationalisation to reduce bureaucracy, to ensure transparency and, therefore, to ensure competitiveness for a key area of growth and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of leading to despair in terms of government and, of course, completely dubious and limited efficiency, such as the measures to alleviate the negative consequences of the abolition of the CSR - one example is that - let us create the conditions for the elimination of the pathogens and distortions that have led to the freezing of business and investment activity. There is no other way out, rather than creating conditions for healthy entrepreneurship, which will produce national wealth and solid jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. We shall now proceed with the Members of Parliament. Mr Georgios Diaras, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have lived and lived great fires that burn forests and crops. Our country is ruined. Nature and culture are life, present and future. Let's all react. I call for mobilisation and vigilance for prevention of the phenomenon and repression both from the government and from the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to the committee on dirty circuits that exist and exist in public works. As an engineer, I know better about projects, which is why I am not going to talk about supplies. I spoke about projects costing Greek workers and taxpayers several times, three times, five times over real costs, compared to private projects of the same standard. I have talked about illegal agreements between contractors in competitions with the tolerance or even the consent of the services. All of this legally or almost legally, but not legally, not morally. The budgets for the projects, particularly inflated to allow for the financing of projects. I know project budgets from my term of office at the Regional Council of Attica, five times over the real cost. I also know bad studies that were paid with the pre-Suffle Act, because then it also changed five times over fair, reasonable and fair. I will give you an example: The cost of studying the City Hall of Agia Paraskevi exceeded 1,600 000 and it is not over yet. The work did not begin to be constructed. This is a building that, along with underground, is about seven thousand square meters. In a similar private building would not cost a study of 300,000, i.e. the public building cost more than five times a private building with the same standards, and that was considered completely normal for many. And for the city hall I mentioned, when it started building, this money was paid. It wasn't, and it's not the exception. Unfortunately, it was the rule. These phenomena were accepted by the then ruling PASOK and the New Democracy, but, unfortunately, society tolerated them. I have to give you an endless list, ladies and gentlemen, of overpriced projects from the Attica Region. It's worth seeing that list. Time is not enough today. Overcompensation was not only in the studies, but, above all, in the budgets and in the real cost of building the projects, where the large funds are. I have mentioned in my speech to the Committee on Road Construction and I have noticed that they have been built with 1/3 of the thickness of the premium and, of course, they have been destroyed. That's how I saw the thickness. Obviously, these works are many and their life span is minimal. Will any control of these projects ever take place? I wonder if some of the civil servants who received them will be punished. Will the companies that built them be punished? Will the natural persons who directed these technical companies, who are likely to have been bankrupt, be punished, while their bosses have become rich? How many of these companies still exist? Will they keep getting public works? These are big questions. The dual-party system has a great responsibility for the tolerance to the involvement or possible participation in some cases. But the whole technical world and society, which tolerated these phenomena, are responsible, I mean those who have something to do with these projects and knew the phenomena. The current government, which has committed itself to corruption and the conflict, is now responsible for clearance and resolution. A great deal of responsibility falls on the back of today's Minister for Infrastructure and all the ministers involved in projects and supplies. This bill introduces positive changes, which were assessed positively by both the Opposition and the bodies, which had been invited to be heard in committee. Such changes are the setting up of electronic draw-up competition committees, the posting of online bids, the fact that no works will be launched unless expropriations and archaeological surveys have been preceded, that the designer will be responsible for the study and the required supplements until the project is completed. The bill does not mention anything about the committees receiving the projects, and I told the Minister. The key point of the interlocutory was that of the project receipt committees. The usual thing was, the principal of the service to appoint the receiving committees. When, however, there was agreement and special service relationship and contractor of a company, the sampling checks were carried out at selected points by the companies. Thus, for example, while the road had been built with 4 centimeters of asphalt at the selected points where the test pieces became the right thickness, i.e., 10 centimeters and all of honey - milk. So because there is no reference in the bill to the receiving committees, I have proposed - and I think the Minister will correct it - the majority of the members of the receiving committees and the chairman of the committee will come from an electronic draw. And this has to go into this bill. It's easy to get in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u113	It's in the law school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u114	For Article 50, projects and constructions, I agree with Mr Maniotis' position, only in very exceptional cases. Of course, the law provides for the exception of upheavals and buildings. And that's good. There have also been good comments from Anti-Population and, if not all, they need to be evaluated and incorporated. I also believe that Mr Maniotis' proposal for the receipt of studies by a Chamber of Deputies, Mr Maniotis, has been correct because it has been shown that these studies which have been received so far and that these committees are suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u115	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u116	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. So we need to find the cure and not stick to ideologies. The aim is to better serve the public interest, reduce the cost of projects and increase quality. Colleagues, the system of construction and manufacturing studies is a powerful system, but also a sick system, with micro-reforms will not change at its core. We'll probably have reactions with corresponding delays, etc. The system and the public administration need bold and deep areas. We all have a responsibility to change it, the parties, the MPs and the government have greater responsibility. The people are waiting for it, the country needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u117	Mr Hatzidakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal to Mr Stathakis, who is responsible, among others, for tourism. Given that SYRIZA has this tolerance, if not sympathy, of occupations and occupations, why does he not put on his agenda, among others, after medical tourism, religious tourism and 'flat tourism'? It may be useful for the national economy as well. Let Mr. Stathakis look into it. I am trying to broaden your thoughts, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I'm coming to the bill. Public procurement, however it sounds as a technical term, is the means by which the public awards works and buys goods and services, so it is a key tool for the service of citizens and a field in which there should be speed, transparency and proper use of taxpayers' money. The previous three-scrupulous government, among the other initiatives it has taken, had also brought Law 4281 on public procurement, which, exceptionally, had done us a favor and had voted for by SYRIZA. But the law, which he had subsequently voted on - you will probably not know - has suspended its operation, leaving things to a large extent in their luck, without adopting the necessary regulatory decisions, until it has decided to bring the current bill, which incorporates Community directives, but in some cases, in the way it does, leads to steps backwards. I would refer to some examples to make it clear. First of all, for a year and a half, we have seen an unjustified delay in the exploitation of all electronic systems for the conduct of tenders and for the monitoring of contracts, which has to do with transparency, but also with the savings of resources, the costs that the government has been saying that we cannot save and that only one irreversible government would limit them. The previous government, therefore, strengthened the information systems, i.e. the National System of Electronic Public Contracts and the KIMIDIS, the Central Electronic Contract Register. The posted in the electronic register has spread since 2012 throughout the public sector and for all contracts and the use of the ESIB online platform has become mandatory for procurement and service competitions of over 60,000 euros, all electronic. And while there was cooperation between the co-legislative ministries - and the thing was going on properly - and it was a duty to implement all this throughout the state by the end of 2015, the SYRIZA Government - which, otherwise, cares about transparency, resource savings and so on. - suspended implementation in public works until April 2017, with the well-known statement of Mr. Spirtzi's relevant Minister, that employees should be trained in the system. And we go the old-fashioned way. This draft law does not take any steps to make use of electronic systems, and as I have said, steps are taken backwards. Very little mention is made of the National Public Contract Database, which is the only tool, which can ensure effective supervision of the number of public procurement, which is thousands a year in the country. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of the independent authority for effective market surveillance is being undermined. There we had a prominent judge, Mr Rajko, who then, after leaving from the beginning, probably before leaving from the beginning, was placed in a competition with the United Nations. I say this to understand both the seriousness of the people and the effort. This principle has gone ahead with its work. It has gained operational function, issued a large number of answers, advice to questions, several guidelines on public procurement and large-scale checks naturally carried out. Now, this bill makes it, I fear, incomprehensible, as it takes 40% of its resources, which, at the very least, are not charged with the state budget. At the same time - and I would like you to notice this - this draft law takes away from the principle of public procurement one of its most important powers. Who? Assent to additional contracts, leaving the field open to tenderers to offer very low prices, hoping for a supplementary contract, when the supply project is now to be awarded to them. I'm saying this so you know what you're voting for. And having said this, I want to recall two issues of topicality, which, of course, have to do with public procurement. One thing is about what happened, by a public contract, obviously, at the Trikala Hospital yesterday, where the government had canceled a previous contract and when the justice, rightfully or wrongly, decided otherwise on this public contract, the relevant Minister of Health exploded. He exploded because he did not like the justice decision or the police attitude. And what message does the government thus send? That law is SYRIZA's law. Justice likes the government only when its decisions happen to be compatible with its wishes. This is the first one, which I would like to highlight with emphasis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The second point I would like to make is that it has already been noted by previous colleagues from this Chamber - one minute, Mr President - that is the reference to public procurement, the Patras Tower public work, in which the government decided to split into eight sections so that more companies and companies of the sixth order, as is called in the technical world, can enter. Therefore, the tendering procedure has been carried out for all three sections which have so far been awarded to the same company. Law? Lawful. It just happens that they are, not only the same company, but the company of which the owner owns two best ministers and which the owner is also among the six - seven interested parties to obtain television licences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Kammenos, who is one of the two best friends of this contractor, with whom I naturally have nothing, nor do I know him, was placed days ago and said that he should normally not be a candidate or would not want Mr Kammenos to be a candidate for a television licence. The other best man in this contractor, who is here with us today, Mr Spirtzis, has not been placed. But the question is neither Mr. Kammenos nor Mr. Spirtzis. The question is about the government. This government, which keeps the sword of cleansing and which is fighting against the interlocutory - and I would like to say quite clearly that there is clearly room for improvement on television - the government, which is being cut out in favour of transparency and against interlocutory, what does it believe in this particular case? And how does he intend to proceed with the issue of channel licensing, which is a public contract too? He thinks he's going ahead, ignoring all this? Will it be a government that is being cut for all the previous phenomena - and I say it is being cut - but does it not care about the new phenomena that arise and hatch?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Hatzidakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u120	I would therefore like to see a clear position from the ministers, but also from the government as a whole, on all these issues. Because, as the matter goes, ladies and gentlemen, you will soon not be believed by your most fanatical fans of transparency, but also by the place that you have drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Mr Mavrotas, MP of the party, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law attempts to integrate European Directives 24 and 25 of 2014 into national law. The Directives concern public works, supply and service contracts. The bill, however, also contains a number of national provisions. However, before I begin, I would like to raise a subject that I raised again and ten days ago, specifically addressing the Bureau, as, rather, our suggestions and protests were not accepted, they did not get any place. In my opinion, it is very difficult for the House to tighten up its work, especially for small parties. A characteristic example, today without any particular reason, has come a bill in the Committee on Educational Affairs, which meets both in the morning and in the afternoon. In the past week, therefore, Mr. Philis has brought tsatres - a step in the Greek-language education bill, where there also concerns private schools. He also had a late amendment yesterday on education. These are very important things to follow a parliamentary practice'spray, wipe you out'. So let me go to the bill and borrow something mentioned in the explanatory statement: 'And it is known that we should have been harmonized by 18 April'. Why are we late again, huh? It's not the first time, of course, but what was the point? Did the SYRIZA ministers once again not confine themselves to transposing, adapting and harmonizing the Community directive, but did they also make their own contributions? Is it because this is not essentially about harmonising the Greek law with the European directive, but about harmonising the European directive with the distortions of Greek law? Remember what the Athens Bar Association said about the original form of this bill in consultation. He said that the draft law does not only solve, but adds new serious problems to the already mobilised and ineffective procurement procedures. The Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts, like the Council of State, also had objections. Finally, this bill came and is de facto a complex bill, with special provisions for which special knowledge is required. In fact, it came under the urgency procedure, without, once again, giving the consultation within the House the necessary time, that is to say, only in a week's time, together with the draft law on concessions, there was a debate on three hundred eighty articles and a number of annexes. It is, therefore, a bill which, as far as anyone thinks it is positive - and it has positive points, because of the familiarization of European directives, leads to a demonstrable legal text, where distortions remain and are reproduced. There are distortions, which are also mentioned in the accompanying report on public consultation, which is where it is mentioned in the observations that the institutional framework of the diplomas and diplomas of scholars and contractors and their correlation with the categories of studies with the CPV and the budgets, for all of which, in particular, the registers - so referred to in the consultation report - should come another law to avoid distortions of competition and ensure equal treatment for all economic operators. So, now what's the point of what we're legislating? Let us go to Article 2 and paragraphs 6 to 9 of paragraph 1 of the bill. While projects in the directive are categorised, on the basis of their main operational object, according to the single CPV classification system, i.e. the common public procurement vocabulary, here you group them together and categorise them. Why is the provision of paragraph 7 necessary? Is the CPV not enough? At the same time, this continues to make it easier to divide the project budget and also the studies, that is to say, let syndicate interests act unnecessarily and keep one of the most important distortions in public procurement. In general, with the derogation from the main operational scope of the contract, which should be dominated, as is the case in the European directive, by a fragmentation in pieces, which will lead us again to distortions of the past, where all projects end up in construction work and HM projects. Everything's got it, but it's not their main object. In Article 4 on mixed contracts corresponding to Article 3 of the European Directive, how did paragraph 7 of that Article arise? Where did you find it? It does not exist in the European directive. Speaking of mixed contracts, is it time to create a record of designers and related contracts in our country, as identified by international organisations such as FIDIC and IKEM? It is interesting that you try to explain paragraph 1 of Article 76 where you do not understand what work we are talking about, how it is identified, how the work is differentiated. In fact, I will submit to the House the budget for some specialised wastewater treatment projects, where, under the EMEA regulation, namely the Operational Environment and Sustainable Development Programme, the budget foresees that 20% of the IT work is going to be done for the contractor of cleaning projects, a characteristic distortion. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] In Annex I, Appendix III, I would also like to highlight the mapping of only some categories of CPV engineering services with the Greek categorisation. You arbitrarily put an additional column to match the study class and only CPV should be sufficient. This, in essence, can perpetuate the existing institutional framework for registries of scholars and contractors. For example, water and waste consultancy services correspond exclusively to the category of plumbing and water resource management studies. Also, heating or advising services related to fire protection and control correspond to mechanical, electrical and electronic studies, as if fire and explosion are not chemical phenomena, as if not mostly chemical engineers involved in the safety of installations. We'll forget what we've learned. The categories of chemical engineering and chemical installations are missing, as well as mining studies. Why is that? Our proposal, therefore, is to withdraw Annex I to Appendix III, as it offers nothing but serves the old syndicate regime. As we have said - and I am closing down, Mr President - this bill has a number of articles which are trying to bring the European directive to the measures of Greek distortions, and these articles will be voted against. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. This debate, however, on the distortions that exist in the technical projects must continue, perhaps in the draft law you mention in the consultation report, that you will bring about the registers of the coefficients of technical work, where we will have many interests to say there. Why, though, are you prejudiced by this bill? Here's the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. The honourable Member of the Centro Association, Mr Megalo-Economics, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to my regret, I see that today, in the year 2016, a major directive of the European Union, dated 2014, is to be ratified. I think that specifically the issue of public procurement is of paramount importance to Greece. How many times have public procurement scandals come to the news, and the next step was nothing but the intervention of the prosecutor? We should therefore have legislation on our own for the purpose of signing public contracts. Unfortunately, once again we're late, but we've got a first, and I'm proud to say it. We've got the delay first. The citizen has identified public works in his mind with the famous '72 movie with Marcello Mastroyani, a great film. Of course the bill must be passed. The European directives have effects, even if they have not been ratified - there is also the case law of the courts on this matter - because a citizen of a Member State who considers that it is affected by the failure to implement the directive in a country, can bring proceedings to the competent courts. For this reason, but also because European directives usually contain extremely useful regulations, it is clear that we should not delay integration. I say this not only for you, but also for the occasional rulers. Indeed, we had to regulate public procurement, and we had no way of imposing this on us by European legislation. We should have done it ourselves already. First of all, we consider it essential to integrate all the relevant provisions into a code. In addition, this draft law creates a new service, and there is already an independent authority. On the other hand, the staff to be promoted in this new service could strengthen this independent authority. The Independent Authority for Public Contracts already has the know-how and qualified staff. The public procurement sector has a huge interest in the European legal order, since much of the European budgets are going there. Indeed, in my personal view, the current collapse of our budgets is due to a large part - or to the greatest - of the destruction of public money through opaque public procurement procedures, assignments between 'days' and what was being played in the background of the previous years by all the previous governments. I hope that this will not continue. In relation to Article 59, the big issue of the fragmentation of public procurement, I would point out that fragmentation has been carried out by and over the whole of Greece, as we all know, and even criminal felonies of a malicious nature have been formed on the same subject. In relation to Article 66 and the Central electronic register of public procurement, these voluntary notices find me in principle contrary and I will tell you why. Indeed, Mr Ministers, most people are informed of the Internet and press release is not necessary. I ask you, though: Have you calculated how many people live in the provincial press, how many journalists, how many contributions are paid? This must be done in parallel via the Internet and through the press. There should be a mandatory publication of notices, and indeed at the expense of the majority. The majority may also pay this post. The standardisation of contracts, of course, will lead to the reduction of appeals and, of course, once again, our view is that it is a regulation, which we should have done a long time ago, but not to wait for European legislation to be transposed in order to move forward. Overall, public procurement is a first-sized issue for the fiscal stability and public administration of our country. My view and view of the Central Association and of President Leventis is that we must behave in the management of public money, just as we behave in our own money: to protect it, not to squander it and use it in the best way, which has never been done. Unfortunately, that is what we have seen. If we are able to walk on it, protect it, exploit it and do anything, so that we can keep it in our hands, only so can it go ahead of our state, with wisdom and management skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. I think that in this movie, Mastrongiani wasn't leading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u126	He was a protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u127	Ugo Toniachi, I think it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u128	No, no, that was Ferrery's Italian movie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u129	Well, we proceed with the next speaker, Mr Theocharis, who belongs to the Independent Members. Please, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for reminding me that I am an independent MEP. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of directives with the end date of incorporation in April 2016. The government has thus obtained a prosperous argument to bring it to Parliament by means of the urgency procedure, one week before the summer break. It thus takes the opportunity from this House to have a real dialogue, but also to distribute its methods. The information we have on public procurement is unclear and problematic. The central government's expenditure for these amounts to about 9% of GDP, which is increasing to 14%, including the general government and 20%, taking into account concessions. In absolute numbers, we have 36 billion people running around - and unclearness is there too, we do not know exactly how many - five thousand contracting authorities. We are talking about a system of management and control fragmented and inefficient. A system that strengthens mismanagement and corruption phenomena. The OECD studies tell us that 20% can be saved, that is, 7.2 billion. Imagine the 2 billion going to tax reductions, the 2 billion to support the social state and the rest to go to more commissions than things that are missing today. Your inability is apparent from the fact that you have rushed from the beginning of July to abolish the previous framework under Law 4403/2016, Article 57, in view of the deposit of the present. In other words, you have created an empty law without any, but no meaning. The problem in Greece is not the lack of a framework, but its implementation. Public procurement has always been problematic. Excessive charges, public agencies for months or years without supplies, especially hospitals, air competitions, infrastructure projects to delay, corruption. But what about the current government? What does he have to show us? Amid Christmas celebrations, the Minister of Infrastructure signs eight direct assignments to individuals or companies for road concession monitoring projects with ministerial decisions. Of course, in this bill you also leave a window for such 'gifts' through direct awards for studies of up to EUR 40 000 in Article 119. On December 8, 2015, by decision of the Minister of Economy, at the request of the Minister of Infrastructure, the mandatory use of the ESADI, which was introduced in 2013, is transferred for April 30, 2017, because the officials had not been able to train. We have tabled a question because this extension was deemed appropriate and we have only received a reply on a secondary issue, as to how many officials have been trained so far. The departure head of the single public procurement authority, Mr Raikos, denounced last February the practice of tabling amendments, which is used by this government, to carry out public procurement, in derogation of normal procedures. Your assignments too much, too much, rule and not exception, unfortunately. Yesterday, we tabled an amendment with a general number of 612 and a special number 61. It is an addition to Article 72 and it relates to the entry into force of the reduced guarantee letters of good execution for projects. At the moment, there is a difference in treatment between the newly auctioned and already executed projects. The old works, that is, the new ones. In new projects, the contraaor benefits from a 5% reduction in the required good execution guarantee. In the same executions, however, the former scheme applies. This creates unequal treatment by favouring contractors who have been inactivated in the current economic situation and have no works in progress. Mr Minister, you told the institutions that if an amendment comes to cure this unequal treatment, you would accept it. I got her. All parties support her, including ANELs and the JRC says she's studying her. So why don't you do it? Why don't you take her? The legal services tell us that this amendment is contrary to the existing legal framework, a legitimate argument. However, what we are proposing is to amend the previous framework and extend it to take account of the favourable arrangements of the present. So your legal evasion is not true. Tell the truth, you don't want it and don't fool people. It's not bad. If you do not agree with something, the right thing is to say 'I do not agree and I do not.' Not to shun legal arguments. We, as Democratic Responsibility, have raised the issue of public procurement as one of the main priorities in our programme. We are pleased that we see some of our positions and proposals in the bill, such as the establishment of the Proceedings Committee. The way, however, that it will be organized or exercised its responsibilities is the one who judges success. The bodies in the committee have already expressed serious doubts about the timing of examination and decision-making and about the workload of the committees. In view of the 'allergies' which the government has shown to the independent authorities, we are very doubtful of the outcome. Our main position is that national rules go hand in hand with Europeans and that is what is done with this bill. Apart from that, however, standardisation of procedures and technical specifications is required as a basic condition for a simple and effective framework, which will hit the interests, which are served by the current situation. The fragmentation of the awards must be limited and gradually stopped. We heard about the fragmentation of Patras tower. It should therefore be restricted by the creation of a central contracting authority in each of the departments and regions, with the active involvement of the other existing contracting authorities. At what level is the functioning of the three central contracting authorities? We're asking. Do they respond, even in elementary terms, to their role? Oh, no. It is good that the bill of continuous training and certification of officials involved in public procurement is provided for. When is this going to happen? Is there an infrastructure, organisation and, above all, a willingness to start all this? We want the reorganisation of the audit authorities, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification of the audit mechanisms, the creation of an electronic list of products that will be allowed to be supplied by the public under contracts of up to EUR 60,000. Get a class in. The speeding up of the full implementation of the ENSIBs and KYMIDIS. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This bill refers to the full implementation of ESADI in mid-2017, which is unacceptable. Even now, from tomorrow, you have to establish until ESADI allow it, universal electronic auctions. From tomorrow, an auction for each different company, which enables us to make them competition issues, at zero costs for the public, take care of them, and we will have the benefits immediately. You know, electronic auctions directly reduce costs. You don't want to do it. We also need to target modern forms of contracts to increase uses. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary, but conservative and cowardly. We have reservations about its implementation, and we do not see you commit to bringing any further, by way of exception, as you have done a year and a half now. In both conventions and corruption, that is, you continue the same and worse than before. Therefore, from Democratic Responsibility, do not expect support while you go on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr Theochari. Mr Constantine Karamanlis of Achilleas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's permanent position on the framework of public procurement is also its harmony with the principles and practices of European legislation. We in the New Democracy want a legislative framework that will protect three simple things in public procurement: firstly, free competition. Secondly, to strengthen transparency and, thirdly, to contribute to reducing bureaucracy. At the opposite, however, we have your own government, a government which, in eighteen months' time, has postponed the operation of the electronic tendering system for works and studies, a government that actually brings out a bill of two thousand seven hundred pages. There is also another contradiction here. A draft law cannot be put on the table and you should finally submit to Parliament a bill which has nothing to do with the original text. It is a bill which, in our view, also shows another peculiarity: on the one hand, it is in line with a European directive, but at the same time it includes a number of provisions and articles which conflict with European legislation, such as Article 67 on the electronic disposal of contract documents or Article 76 on so-called economic operators. At the same time, we have Minister Spirtzi, who in Article 50 is trying to bring the design system out of the window. First of all, we must make it clear that this article is not in line with the directive. Secondly, let us say that during the consultation phase and in the debate in the committee all the relevant bodies expressed their complete refusal to do so with the design-building system and sincerely give us the impression that the Minister insists on this system. Furthermore, the introduction of the criterion of economic offer, against the technology for the emergence of a contractor, opens the way for a problematic and opaque execution of public works. At the same time, the way the system is implemented remains unregulated and problematic, after you grant and give contracting authorities the right to clean up everything, to economic and technical supply, selection and application criteria, coefficients and rating limits. The European experience therefore has nothing to do with Article 50 and the system you are trying to achieve from the 'Windows', as we have said, to bring, but it is limited to projects with specific technical specifications and specific manufacturing methods. It is known that the design-building system is a system, as technicians and engineers say, exceptionally. It is, therefore, natural that what you are doing - and normal for your Government - is to close the eye on opacity, effectively hitting small and medium-sized construction companies and contractors, as well as on the research sector. The proposal of the New Democracy is simple. Restrict the use of the design system - construction in specific projects, to projects that require specific construction, but then control over the Technical Board of the General Secretariat of Public Works. Mr President, the New Democracy is consistent with its stance and fully agrees with the need to codify legislation in public works. This is also strategically and functionally correct. We had done so, after all, as a government with Law 3669/2008. Today, however, we have a bill, which is not intended to codify legislation, as the government claims. The aim is clear and Mr Spirji has disclosed to the committee. I am surprised to hear it say: 'On the one hand we have the uncontrolled market and neoliberalism, and on the other hand we have the forces that believe in market control.' This is exactly how Mr Spirtz is presented as the expression of the forces that believe in market control. And here is our political disagreement: we, Mr Spirtzi, do not believe in market control, but in its regulation. In fact, you have said that in a debate on a draft law on harmonisation of a European directive. I think we should be clear here. You're trying to check the independent authorities, check the channels, check the television licenses. Now you want to check public works too. However, we in the New Democracy, Mr Spirtzi, will not allow you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u133	Me too, Mr. Karamanlis. Mrs. Thalerite, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, one of the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is the radical modernisation of public procurement in the European Union. This was considered necessary, given that the public authorities spend 18% of GDP every year on the purchase of goods, services and works. It is therefore clear that in this period of budgetary austerity, economic difficulties, especially in the countries of the South, and even more so in our country, it is more than ever necessary for policy in the field of public procurement to ensure the best use of the relevant funds in order to support economic growth and create wealthy jobs. On the other hand, it is equally important to close doors to opacity, corruption and the involvement of interests. In this context, therefore, public procurement policy and the revision of the directives concerned were incorporated into an overall programme aimed at the radical modernisation of public procurement. The objectives of modernising European public procurement rules are as follows: to simplify and make rules and procedures more flexible, to facilitate access for small and medium-sized enterprises to public procurement and to ensure better and more qualitative use of public procurement. On this basis, what are the objectives of this bill? It is firstly the incorporation of the directives in order to ensure that regulations are harmonised with European Union law in the field of public procurement and, secondly, that it is really necessary to create and introduce a new institutional framework for public procurement, an institutional framework which clearly and uniformly regulates the award and enforcement of public contracts, works, supplies and services, regardless of the type of principle it entrusts. We must also stress this: regardless of the principle it entrusts. And we should also stress that contracting authorities include grades 1 and 2. What is the main objective of this bill? To significantly simplify the administrative burdens and the complex administrative system that existed before. In what way? It simplifies, codifies and updates all legislative provisions. In particular, it abolishes previous provisions and regimes and ensures the principle of transparency, equal treatment, free competition, while ensuring public interest, through the savings of public resources. At the same time, the flexibility required under clear conditions is provided to the authorities which entrust them to adapt the terms of award and execution to any particularities of the contract. What are the key points of this bill? Firstly, it is what has been mentioned by many colleagues and colleagues, that it combats pluralism, concentrating all public procurement arrangements on a piece of legislation. Secondly, there is now a uniform application of rules by all contracting authorities and bodies, i.e. abolishing all special schemes and not dependent on any award based on the form of the contracting authority. Rules are laid down for the first time and public service contracts. We all know very well what was happening in the past when we used the institutional framework of procurement and could not determine what is a service. It fights corruption, in particular by clarifying the concepts of public work, what is study, what is a service, what is a provision. And for those who are involved, they understand very well what we mean by this clarification of concepts, because it has dealt with too much courts and auditing mechanisms to ensure that the conditions are not clarified. Finally, it establishes competition committees, not in the traditional way, but their way is important. In other words, with the establishment of a register of members of committees where members of committees are chosen by a central electronic drawer system. Other important points also - keys to the bill - could be said to be: New ways of awarding public contracts through competitive dialogue and competitive negotiation. That's why there's a detailed procedure within the law. The dynamic purchasing system as a fully electronic process whereby contracting authorities are allowed to have a wide range of tenders and thus best ensure the use of public resources. The establishment of electronic means of awarding public procurement contracts, such as electronic auctions, where new reduced prices are presented, new values as regards certain elements of tenders. The establishment of technical specifications in order to ensure the public interest. The deadlines for the submission of the tenders available may be satisfied if they serve the public interest, in particular by the committees designated by the law. It is also of particular importance that environmental, social and labour requirements are included in the award and enforcement procedures so that companies that meet the above requirements may be preceded. A major innovation, which characterises this draft law, is the possibility for contracting authorities to grant exclusive and on specific terms the right to participate in public procurement procedures in protected productive workshops, social cooperatives with limited liability, social inclusion companies and any other economic operator whose main purpose is, under its statute, the professional and social integration of disabled or disadvantaged persons. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Give me two more minutes. Finally, there is a series of, in fact, innovative features, particularly with regard to the tools available for this competition. I would like for a moment to point out and conclude with this: the introduction of specific provisions for the first time in order to regulate procurement procedures under EUR 60,000. I mean, the rough contest and the direct assignment, we'd talk about it. There, in fact, with the register of scholars and contractors for the first time will be made by means of a draw and by electronic system once for each direct assignment. Those of you who know what happened to direct awards I think it is a way to ensure this transparency. Finally, this draft law seeks to create a very different institutional framework for all the activities involving the public sector, which can on the basis of this institutional framework be an important tool for the country's productive and economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u135	Mr Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. I don't have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u136	Say it. Why wouldn't you say so? It's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u137	Because everyone knows that. Not for any other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Minister, Mr Spiritzis, in the ideological disagreement raised by my colleague Mr Karamanlis, I think that a minister who has Mars Velouhiotis behind him is obviously market control within his ideology. I saw you guys were a little tempted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u139	I did, I didn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u140	With Mars Velouchiotis, you obviously want to have control of the market. Why did you get tempted? It is obvious that here we have an ideological disagreement. Of course, on the other hand, Mr. Stathakis,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u141	What's your picture?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u142	I have my parents, to tell you the truth, and two pictures of Mount Athos, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u143	Was it for control or regulation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u144	My father was a liberal, thank God. Minister, see what our big difference is. We come here today in a draft law which ratifys a European directive but also has your own issues in mind. Mr Karamanlis has put Article 50 on the table and that has not been the case so far. We'll be here tomorrow and listen to you. But Article 50 actually helps the big ones. While you as government with Mars Velouchiotis, I said earlier, you want to help the small ones. How do you combine them both, huh? You, the enclaves of the conflict, put them in the big interests, but you legislate in the House in favour of the great! Huh? How does life bring them? Some weird stuff. But we come to the House and vote for your bill. Did you, Mr. Stathakis, ever pass a bill from the previous government? Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u145	Of course, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u146	You went out to the House and said the things you said at the time of your youth about the very nice things you would do when you came to be a government. And that's our big difference,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u147	The n. 4281 we voted for him. Mr. Metarakis said so too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u148	...because we do want the country to go forward. It would be worth it in a discussion that we both top ministers here, and especially you, Mr Stathakis, have had a comment reading about -7% dropping retail trade in supermarkets in the first half of 2016. How proud is the Development Minister for -7% in retail trade in the country? I imagine you'll find it a great success - so you're always smiling - that retail trade is falling apart in the country. You're doing very well, Minister, in your administration! As far as you are concerned, Mr Spirtzi, you know that a very big issue has arisen, which has not yet received the publicity that we need, since we are talking about postal services. The workers say that, with your inertia, perhaps political decision, the ELTA administration did not sign up to the money agreed by the previous government by 2028, 50 million per year for the postal services in the remote regions. We're losing these 50 million by 2028. You are also asking for the balance sheet of the ELTAs to be changed. With the 50 million a year, however, the ELTAs are at risk of going bankrupt. Is it true what the workers say? Because if the ELTAs go bankrupt from your own political decision and you don't get the European Union's money, then that's obviously some kind of political choice and something you want to do there. Of course what you want to do will cost the Greek taxpayers some 600 million that we lose from the European Union. But you're gonna explain that to us, too, so we can figure out exactly what you're doing. I come to both of the last of these events so we won't let go of them. Of course it is not your responsibility, but the government should have an answer today. The anarchists are uploading classified documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Government Ministers, how normal is the official site of the anti-unionist space to publish and tear letters today about how betrayed they feel by their Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, who otherwise promised them when he was in opposition, or is now doing as government? The anti-powered ones go along with the pensioners, who today take their pensions cut. Now that I was on the Internet I saw Mrs Gerovali making a statement "additional pensions are not cut off" and then the various pensioners who went today to get their pensions and are curtailed. It's a strange thing. While you're not cut, it's less the money on the bill! But let me go back to the big one. What does the government say about the fact that anarchists in our country can upload classified documents of direct service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to their own online hub? And what image does this show of the true state of Greek democracy at the time of SYRIZA government government ministers? Do you have any comment on all this, or does everything eventually pass into the duo in a country where even the collapse of the retail trade by the Minister of Development is dealt with with with a slight sign? It is typical of your character and your stoicity, which we all admire, but the other tragic one for professionals who go bankrupt, Minister, because you are not doing your job well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u152	I have a weakness in the inaccuracy, Mr. Georgiadis. As to whether we voted or did not vote, I would like to say that when Law 4281 on public procurement came to the House from you, I was rapporteur. We had voted on the general provisions - so your argument is not valid - and Mr Mitsakis confirmed it a moment ago. We had voted against many other articles, we had fully accepted Directives 17 and 18, and we had voted against articles concerning many other issues contained in the relevant law. So the argument that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u153	You had voted against a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u154	All the general provisions of Directives 17 and 18 were adopted. So your argument is not true that we have never voted for anything and you are the good opposition. Secondly, for retail trade: I would be very pleased if you had shown the same sensitivity to the reductions in the retail trade indices when you were a government, every six months, which were multiples of what you imply. You can imagine and I imagine that the choice of an indicator - you will see that the indicator is not exactly like this, it will be very low at the end of the year - does not raise issues which give rise to a personal attack, which is probably nothing legitimate of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u156	Mr Georgiadis, but do not engage in dialogue at all times. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u157	I'm gonna need a second, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u159	Minister, I have not made any personal attacks, and if you've taken it that way, very badly. In your political capacity, I refer to Stathakis, who is very sympathetic. I've said it another time. But, in essence, Mr Minister, do you want to make comparisons of seriousness between our government and yours in the field of the economy? Do you want to have a serious conversation like this, Minister? Okay, you must have a little - excuse me, if you see it personally - shame in this Chamber. You've received an economy. And you are constantly saying - and you are saying it badly, because you are dragging the world - 'you have made a recession of 25% of GDP'. We didn't bring it, Minister. We've received the 25% recession from the Papandreou government, if you see the numbers. We have presented you with an economy, which, when you received it, has had the highest rate of growth in the euro area, and today you are the only economy in the eurozone in the recession. So when you receive from the previous one an economy that has the highest rate of growth in the Eurozone and you are the Minister of the only country in recession, I beg your pardon, but moving your head in style is going a lot! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u160	We shall proceed with Mr Tasoula, Member of the New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Tasoula. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u161	Indeed, there was a positive vote by SYRIZA in a bill of New Democracy and in the face of an economic crisis, I think that this provision will be of collective value in the future and can be sold at the Sotheby's in London for a good price. I recommend to all colleagues that they keep it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course for history I say that this provision while it was voted on, then by the SYRIZA Government, was not applied. But one - one. Don't ask too much. Don't be too much of a claim! Now, there's a saying, which says the sacred indignation is 5% sacred, 5% indignation and 90% envy. It is a saying that we see, at least those who have the privilege of cynicism, apply much to politics and see it when the roles are reversed and one of the complainants becomes rulers. SYRIZA reminiscently reminds of the truth of this word and tries what is imputing to the previous ones, today in its suffocating, suffocating margins, to imitate them. It seems more like when denouncing corruption as if it is a envy that cannot today, because of the country's bankruptcy and the suffocating data, to apply them and try to use them at least for a little while to imitate bad past practices as much as it can, as it is allowed, as long as it can, as much as it can through cracks and rams to succeed. These cracks, rams, these bad habits of a past that we have all fought to correct - sometimes we have done so at times not - are visible in a bill that should normally be the application of a directive. The fact that SYRIZA, through this three hundred and eighty articles law abolishes control over supplementary contracts, allows the divisions of contracts, i.e. it can make some direct awards without, as Parliament's Scientific Service says, establishing the criteria, all show that it is trying in the sizes of today's country, not of itself, to keep all the bad examples of the past in micrography. You're a suffocating micrograph of a bad past, who'd love to have the big dimensions. We, having escaped from the country's bankruptcy, from a bad past in which we have actually engaged, have assumed our responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, for six years now. And it's not a bipartite system that ruled the country. They are parties that the Greek people were free to vote with greater enthusiasm than they vote for you. You more vote with an inclined vote for us than for faith for you. And one of the reasons I think that the world is not up against you today - it favours you, although it is not in your favour - is that it actually did not vote for you because it believed you, it voted for you because it wanted to punish us. If he believed you, today the world would be in the squares. They don't expect anything from you. They punished the old people because they thought they lost a paradise. They did not support country corrections to you. Oh, yes, some did not support corrections, some supported the hope of worsening the position of others, based on the well - known neo-Greek envy. You're a strange party. I even read today in "Boulis and EUROVOULE" a colleague of SYRIZA in the Peloponnese who blames, like all of you, the old parties that brought Greece into this position. Incidentally, this colleague has a father who was a Member of Parliament in the New Democracy with New Democracy, and he himself, before leaving with a list of SYRIZA, had put three or four times the candidacy, unsuccessfully, with PASOK. You understand how jealous I am that you do not have the slightest sense of shame, you do not have the slightest sense of historical justice performance, you do not have the slightest sense of responsibility. You are a party that came out of the desperation and discomfort of the Greek people and you are trying in every way to sustain all the evils of the past. In the costume of the European Union, you are voting for instructions because you are obliged to do so, teary resolutions, and within these teary resolutions you have a few rams of the old evil system, which you are trying to imitate within the micrograph that allows for the bankruptcy of your country and the bankruptcy of your ideology. "So the ruptured sprinkler also became the drip." That's the way you're going, with a stutter and a dash. That's not how the country is ruling. The country is governed by assumptions. It says the rapporteur's report that this directive which draws up and defines the way in which public procurement takes place is in the context of the practice and the Europe 2020 strategy. Do you believe in this strategy or do you think it's neoliberal and you have to swallow it? You are also voting for them, however, and you have all these wrong returns in the past, trying to imitate them. You're pretending to be left-wing or you're probably left-wing, but you're Greek left-wing. You have your ideology more geared to culture of envy against success, against discrimination, and you are trying to sustain this climate to the public. You are, in short, the side effect of the Metamorphosis and as a side effect of the Transition was your time. Your time has come, as is the time of any side effects, even in the most innocent medicine! But you should be aware that, with the directives you are voting on and the way you are dealing with and the way you are being destroyed, at the time you are voting on the directives, European legislation, very soon the great majority of the Greek people will understand that it makes no sense to vote against, but it makes sense to vote. Having assumed its responsibilities for both the past and the future of the country, the New Democracy is voting for the principle of this bill because it is in the right direction. It highlights its imperfections and highlights in particular your own flaws, which will not take the government away and lead to political developments which will bring the country to pursue the vision of development with those who believe in development, who believe in progress and are not addressing either despair or anger, but are aimed at the hope and knowledge of a better fate worthy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Chogas, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law is an adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of European Parliament Nos 24 and 25. This draft law establishes for the first time a single regulatory framework for public procurement through flexible and simplified award procedures, while reducing administrative costs, but always while ensuring the public interest and the principle of transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an innovative and progressive bill setting out social and environmental criteria, such as the specific provision for social economy companies, the inclusion of vulnerable and disadvantaged people, the provision of life cycles, the strengthening of innovation and others. Access to small and medium-sized enterprises is also facilitated. It improves and makes the legislative framework clearer to avoid conflicts of interest. In Book I of the four of the present draft legislation, Articles 3 to 221 relating to the adaptation to Directive 24 give the clearest definition of the concept of public procurement and its conclusion to the procedure for awarding and implementing it. In particular, Article 18 expressly provides for the principles applicable to procedures for the award of public contracts, incorporating the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Greek courts, i.e. equal treatment without discrimination between economic operators by contracting authorities of transparency, proportionality, mutual recognition of the protection of the public interest, the protection of the rights of individuals, the freedom of competition, the protection of the environment and sustainable and sustainable development. Article 22 provides for the use of electronic means, as all communications and exchanges of information are carried out through the national electronic procurement system, while Article 34 brings the rules for the use of electronic auctions. Article 38 regulates the systems relating to the operation of the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts, in which all elements of the public procurement of an estimated value of EUR 1,000 are aggregated or more so as to become a single platform for public procurement at national level while gradually replacing the obligation to publish public procurement in the press and in the Official Journal of the Government. This will ensure a high degree of transparency and a sufficient time to publish, which will perform the role of an easy-to-use tool for seeking business opportunities. I would, however, like to focus, in particular, on Book IV and Articles 345 to 374, in this part that gives a positive sense to the analytic recording of an improved system of legal protection at the stage of the award of public contracts, according to which anyone who had a legitimate interest in entrusting him with a specific contract of this draft law, and which is marked by an act or omission by the contracting authority adopted at the award stage, is entitled to bring an action before the Independent Administrative Body of the Proceedings Authority to call for the annulment of the act and for interim protection measures, i.e. interim measures. At the same time, the same institution may apply for the annulment of the contract concluded unlawfully. The application for a preliminary ruling is a pretext and a pretext for the admissibility of the action. The appeal ensures the objective crisis and at the same time rationalises the procedure for the provision of legal protection. The expert staff in this area is convincing that the resolution of the emerging disputes at the award stage will be significantly accelerated by analogy with the effectiveness of the entire legal protection system. Such a decision shall be challenged by a request for annulment before the Governor of the Court of Appeal, the seat of the contracting authority or the Council of State, while in the course of the proceedings before the Court of Justice the right to stay or to annul the unlawful acts of the contracting authority shall be retained in contrast to those of L.3886/2010. The application of Article 345 thus focuses on the resulting differences in the procedure for the award of public works contracts, studies and supplies and services, when their value exceeds EUR 60,000. It is also planned to regulate the personal and operational independence of the GSP members by introducing exclusion of their employment, since, in order for them to carry out tasks, they will have already suspended any of their professional activities. After taking up the functions, they shall be prohibited from being shareholders, and their involvement in any way with economic operators in the field of public procurement. The obligation to submit a proportionate infringement of the budgeted value of the contract to be awarded of a value of 0,5, which cannot be less than EUR 600 and more than EUR 15 000, is laid down. It should be noted that the period for bringing proceedings before the Court of First Instance and its application prevents the conclusion of the contract being declared void. In any case, it is stipulated that the nullity may have retroactive effect and the claims made by the parties are governed by the provisions of the law. The person having a legitimate interest may request the suspension of the decision of the GPSD and the annulment before the Administrative Appeal Court of the office of the irrevocable contracting authority. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the existing pluralism that exists today in relation to the conclusion of public contracts according to the contracting authority, the type of contract or the market sector creates reasonable confusion among members, for this reason the purpose of this draft law is the simplification and consolidation of public procurement law. This is easily demonstrated in Article 377. All relevant provisions understood are laid down in that Article. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. The area of public procurement is a particularly appropriate ground for the blooming of corruption, interlocutory and deception due to the financial interests involved in it. Transparent procedures, last-minute assignments by concise procedures, over-priced pricing to public procurement, money under the table, serviced interests of a few at the expense of many, biased state policies for maintaining them in power, lack of control mechanisms and a multitude of legal systems, characterised by the complexity, complexity and ambiguity. We are called upon to put an end to sinful policies of past years, which maintained state-owned entrepreneurs, who were exclusively fed to the Greek State at the expense of the Greek taxpayer, to put an end to the fragmentation of public money in public works which have a strong financial impact by depriving the social state, health, education and justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that we are discussing harmonisation of our law with two European directives which can only be positive in themselves, put an end to the cancers of the past, promote the rule of law, healthy competitiveness, equal opportunities for everyone and restore the confidence of the citizen in the state, which will now be working towards the development of this place and, above all, in the interests of the Greek citizen. I invite you without second thoughts to pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. Mr Stathakis, Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, has the floor for eighteen minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u165	Then will Mr. Spirji speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u166	Are you waiting for Mr. Spirtzi? Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow we are discussing two very important bills. They concern the incorporation of three directives of 23, 24 and 25 of the European Union. The main aspects of this bill have been adequately presented. Let me reply to a few comments that have been made both by the committee and here. I will then focus on the basic core of the changes brought by this law, which affect both European directive and Greek law, since it is right that a large part of the provisions, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, are regulated at national level. To begin with, in the sense of delay and supposedly surprise or a shrinking of the possibility of dialogue. I told the committee that this bill had a preparation for about one year together with the Commission, together with all the bodies, was fully involved in all the procedures of the Independent Authority for Public Contracts. It has been subject to extensive consultation for two months before coming to this House. There was indeed the commitment of the country to complete it until a certain date in April 2016. We thought it could take the urgency procedure, since all this extensive consultation procedure had been preceded and it was completed as soon as possible at that time. The second element, which also confirms the smooth functioning of this draft law, is the fact that, firstly, there is a broad consensus in this House and, secondly, that for our part, all the main amendments that have been adopted have been adopted. There was no wish that the procedure should not go ahead. We have adopted several amendments, the withdrawal of the two articles that created tensions, we have doubled the acceptance of the amendments for the term of office of the chairman of the committee, for small and medium-sized enterprises and others which are part of our availability not to be limited, but to reach a consensus point, since we all agree that it is a bill of great importance. It is clear from the outset: it is a bill that regulates the regulatory framework. From there on, obviously, the full and smooth use of the regulatory framework means that all contracting authorities, public institutions and so on will apply the spirit and substance of the law and will not seek to weaken any or more of the particularly favourable provisions. I think that this regulatory framework is complete and has targets. I'll then stand on them. Now, the attack we have taken on New Democracy, as you have seen, concerns a shift in the interest of the New Democracy in other things. He has a obsession with the psychoanalysis of the voters and why they vote SYRIZA or ANLE. They have multiple interpretations of this phenomenon. I listen with interest to these opinions, but, as you can see, we cannot have a fundamental debate on the behaviour of the electorate in the country. Secondly, many of my fellow Members become proclaimers - among them Mr Hatzidakis, to my great surprise - of the disappointment felt by the voters of SYRIZA and of how soon they will leave us. Also, these belong to sciences I really don't own and I can't manage them. However, I would say, in some things it will take a lot of time to shake the confidence, not only of our voters but also of the voters of the New Democracy. If anything, we're a government with moral advances. There is an attack and an effort to decouple this 'ethical advantage' we have. I insist that, as well as the issues raised on television licences, any one of the fact that for twenty-four years no one has been thinking of making a licensing system. Anything. Good, bad, medium! To take it off, to do the simple thing. A system cannot work with annual temporary permits. There is no other European country. What can we do? Faced with this, will you attack us, as we committed ourselves, a system permanent, with certain rules and so on? There may be disagreements in the rules and so on, but these few sections, at least on the part of the New Democracy, are inappropriate. We cannot be attacked for the independent authorities. I would remind you that the Independent Authority for Public Contracts participated throughout the consultation. And to our great surprise - and this has reproduced - some members of the board of directors were in consultation the day before yesterday that the independent authority did not have enough participation, which is totally misleading. Yes, the members of the board of directors may have been appointed by Mr. Hatzidakis, but they belong to an independent authority and act as an institution. The argument that there is a bleeding of the responsibilities of this independent authority cannot be reproduced. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There cannot be any argument that, because the funds are too much and are being returned to the budget - because they are not spent by the independent authority with its current structure - they are being reduced or transferred to a new competence - I repeat, from the resources that are not absorbed by the independent authority - that strangulation is in the government's intentions. Therefore, I repeat that this type of attack is not justified. As far as the political attacks are concerned, I repeat, in general, I cannot answer them. They belong to the sciences on analysis that I can't handle. Also, I cannot handle being presumed if SYRIZA wants control or regulation of the market on the basis of the icons we have in our personal offices. I assume that politics has more powerful arguments on which it can step on. And today's law, I think, is a very strong argument to see what the current government wants and what this government does. Let me remind you that this bill is also part of a specific strategy announced by the government on how it considers the economy to be able to return to a positive sign, how growth can return, what features this development, fair growth must have, and it is in line with all the legislations and policies that we have in a number of areas. Recent example is the development law, our policy on the NRP, this bill, the bills that will come and very soon on business licensing and strategic investment etc. So it's not a fragmentary legacy. It's in the context of a strategy. I repeat, this strategy, the country's development strategy is also a powerful text, which next September will demarcate all these key elements of policy, which we have chosen. Let's get into this law now, whether or not it's targeting. Firstly, there is a great deal of talk about small and medium-sized enterprises. I would remind you, for small and medium-sized enterprises, that we have chosen both financial instruments that we have used: The development law that we have voted on, which, I repeat, is exclusively for small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, with policy on ESRB entrepreneurship programmes, which are all structured around very small ones - I also reply to the KIC's friends - businesses, young scientists who want to start their activities. So they're very delimited. And here, today, in this bill, we are taking an important step. Firstly, if there is a prospect of subcontracting in a project, public procurement must be explicitly stated, which means that the contracting authority has a full picture of how this process will be done, who is the central candidate, what sub-contracting this procedure has. At the same time, it will also create the conditions for the contracting authority to select any strategy it considers capable of facilitating this process in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, the provisions of the law apply to all contracts of whatever kind and estimated value, so that we also have transparent, faster, more flexible procedures here. The choice is for contracts and for small-scale contracts which create conditions for better transparency and healthy competition, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises. There are plenty of other articles in the same direction. It is planned to achieve economies of scale, but at the same time it is possible to divide some very large competitions, precisely in order to involve small and medium-sized enterprises more widely. The second objective is this: obviously we are seeking economies of scale, which will come from the framework agreements - this has been mentioned in detail by our rapporteurs, but it has also been heard by rapporteurs from other parties - and the central purchasing authorities. The integrated model of centralised procurement obviously can save huge resources and at the same time create stronger transparency rules, since modern public procurement tools, such as framework agreements, electronic lists, innovation contracts and many other tools, are in place to the public procurement authorities. In addition, we are working on the national public procurement strategy, which will give the framework, dimension and objectives for the coming years, as well as the benefits that may arise for the domestic economy, as long as it is formulated in the context of a national strategy from the management of public procurement. I would remind you, in parentheses, that this law abolishes all the laws that previously existed on these matters. Clears the scenery. All procedures in this Regulation shall be consolidated. The third objective is to reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens, but also to improve transparency in procedures. With the National System of Electronic Procurement and the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts, introducing dynamic purchasing systems, electronic auctioning, developing new electronic technical markets and electronic lists, efficiency and transparency are enhanced. It is important here if we are ready to proceed with the adequacy of the computer system. I would remind the House that I have submitted to the committee the information showing a rapid rise in the figures and the number of operations recorded by the current system. From the two thousand records, we have reached seven hundred thousand records and there will be an additional increase. The electronic system has been upgraded. We are now in discussions to be fully adequacy of the electronic system in the years to come. I would remind you that we found the electronic system in an interim situation and it was the government's initiative a year before extending the contract, speeding up the procedures and bringing the system to the point of accepting, as today, a huge number of entries. I repeat today that we are talking about seven hundred thousand entries. As far as early information is concerned, this has been raised by many speakers. I would remind you that it is provided for in any tendering procedure or contracting authority in advance to announce and have all the necessary consultation in order to avoid photographic tenders or specifications that annul the tender. So, there's within the bill. The objective evaluation of the proposals shall be maximised. I repeat everything is electronic. If we are to be judged by the way in which we publish the NSRF programmes and various other projects, we have done so electronically and objectively, which is about like a pan-Hellenic exams. In other words, it is impossible for anyone to interfere in the system and affect it. The fourth objective is social and environmental criteria. These are two strong interventions in the new regulatory framework, firstly because it is now a commitment and a condition for the award of a public project or a procurement condition that it does not comply with environmental, social and labour legislation in the award and execution of the project. So we are now firmly committed to the fact that symptoms of black work and other phenomena are a direct cause of the lifting of the assignment and execution of the project. The second and important element is that there is express support for social actors. For the first time, the possibility for contracting authorities to grant exclusive rights to participate in a procurement procedure in protected productive workshops, social cooperatives with limited liability, social cooperatives with integration and any other economic operator whose main purpose is, on the basis of its statute, the professional and social integration of disabled or disadvantaged persons, provided that they cover 30% of the employees. This, in conjunction with the forthcoming new legislative initiative on the social economy prepared by the relevant Ministry, the new development law to which they have joined - I would remind you - the Commons. with a reduced minimum investment level of EUR 50,000 and the first entry into the NSRF of social enterprises, participating in the 2014-2020 programmes, I think that a much more favourable area is being created for an area that can be a very important sector for the Greek economy. Let me say about the fifth and last aim, which is to combat corruption. The arrangements relating to Article 24 for conflicts of interest and Article 73 for mandatory grounds of exclusion shall shield the system for the award and execution of public contracts against corruption phenomena and unfair transactions. I think that the course of the present government, with our controls and for the past, has shown considerable results. I would remind you that the Ministry of Finance has carried out audit orders for two hundred sixty-one cases and has closed a hundred and sixty-six of them, with a significant benefit for the public funds. I would also like to mention one point concerning SYRIZA's policy on this issue. First of all, I would like to remind you that in the European Parliament, SYRIZA did not participate in the debate on the directives. We only had Hood. GUE, the Left Group in which SYRIZA participates, voted "white" for Directives 24 and 25 and has made specific reservations. I think that at the moment the directives are obviously an obligation for a country which wants to be in the European Union and remain in it. I'll close by talking about the provincial press with the President's tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u168	There is also an amendment to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u169	Yeah. I will close with the provincial press, because there is a lot of talk about a subject. I would remind the New Democracy that the abolition of publications is the result of the OECD, TOOLKIT 1, which New Democracy, if I recall correctly, had accepted. It entered as a Memorandum of Understanding, but then the present Government gave a strong extension until 2020. As you all understand, this five-year extension is the best given extension that could be given. I therefore think that the government has done most of what it had to do and I am surprised that the New Democracy appears to be defending the provincial press. The beginning of all this adventure - I repeat - is yours. I think our handling is the best possible under the circumstances. 2020 will obviously decide whether conditions are different, whether this situation will continue or not. I would also remind you that in your colleague's question in the European Parliament, which you refer to, the answer is very clear and explicit. The requirement under the European Directive is that electronic binding must be made electronically. The addition is that in most countries additional publication has tended to be abolished or deleted. I think that this provincial press policy can and must also have other elements and not depend solely on this dimension. In conclusion, I would remind you that these are two draft laws that are being passed today and tomorrow, which make the government's coherent and distinctive intentions for a significant modernisation of the country's institutional framework. They form an integral part of a coherent economic policy pursued by the current government, and form an important framework for the resolution and rationalisation of one of the areas in which many problems have been encountered in the past. It is good that most of the House will respond positively to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law harmonizes Directives 24 and 25 of 14 in Greek and deals with the institutional framework for the award and execution of public supply, service, works and studies contracts. And every word has its own value. Too bad Mr. Hatzidakis isn't here. I hope he comes in to answer some things. In August 2014, Mr. 4281 with the rapporteur then Minister for Development, Mr Hatzidakis. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4281 incorporated Directive 18, although new Directives 24 and 25 had already been adopted, which we had to incorporate within a year and a half. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4281 was never applied because it could not be applied. It provided for secondary law, namely, the adoption of more than a hundred ministerial decisions and a few ten presidential decrees to implement it, which was surely not to be adopted within a year and a half that should have been revised by the law adopted and recommended. Why does it come today and renounce us when all the ministerial decisions that were then provided for in the law have been incorporated into the draft law? Why did Mr Hatzidakis not then make these ministerial decisions? How was Mr. 4281 voted and discussed? Was it in urgent procedure? It also accuses us of postponing the electronic tenders of study projects four times. The electronic tenders were then planned, the electronic system was tendered and we have two questions. The first question is if it was ready. They did the contest. The second question which shows and the intentions of the policy of the New Democracy and of Mr Hatzidakis and why he voted for that law, while the Community Directives had changed, was very simple and that is very simple and that is our political difference: the New Democracy wants the same conditions that we have introduced with the electronic system and with the v. 4281 to obtain the Greek State standardized products - canned, turkeys, such things - in the same way as to carry out studies and public works. This is a difference that neither the priest nor the devil nor their own people want. So why did they choose? They chose why they wanted to deal with both scientific studies and the production of works as a supply and provision of services. In other words, they invalidated the quality data of both the technical companies and the scientists, considering the technical and scientific studies as a service and the execution of works as a supply. This difference is also a substantial political disagreement between the political and economic forces of the uncontrolled market and those who believe in control and regulation. I would like to say this again, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but market control, market manipulation and market manipulation. We're giving you the last two of us, but we're going to control the market, we're not going to let it settle the course of the country and political life as it wants. The technical branch was hit as much as anyone else. It was not only the subject of public procurement and private works. It has been hit in the years of the crisis institutionalised and has attempted to reap it through its treatment as a commercial activity and not as an economic scientific work and, of course, by its delivery to the banking system, without rules and without transparency. The technical potential of the country, the technical world, was one of the main areas of development in the country. It is an area that involved distortions, major economic interests, 'grey' regions, bureaucracy and large gaps in its institutional framework. It is our duty to reverse this direction, institutionalise technical - scientific work, but at the same time to heal the gaps, the 'grey' zones and the distortions that exist. We have worked in this political direction and we will continue in that direction. I would like to inform you that today's major changes will be completed with a next draft law - already some bodies have been given for consultation - which will include other chronic diseases such as the different standards of public and private projects, their invoices and budgets, the centralised control and surveillance systems, the registers that are a crucial issue and many of the operators' comments are mentioned there. I would also like to mention the most important areas included in the current draft law, real areas and substantial changes, which ensure transparency, rationalisation and the reasonable cost of projects for the benefit of the public interest. In summary, clear conditions and control mechanisms are identified for the complete separation of the procurement from the public works, for the provision of services from the study. The European Codification of CPV is adopted for what each project and every service provision are and they finally enter rules in the provision of services by Mr Stathakis, without the distortion we have had. I will mention examples that we have lived in the past. All public bodies were making projects as a supply, and digital convergence in large projects such as the association project was all by commission. Who were they favoring? Who have these distortions favoured, gentlemen, and why have they not been treated for so many years? At the same time, I should like to say - because they are cut off for small and medium-sized enterprises, because there are small and medium-sized enterprises, it seems, in the telecommunications sector! - that clear arrangements are in place for guaranteeing, in cases of unusually low supply, and the method of documentation with clear supporting documents. The second major change is that the strengthening of the preparation procedures for the award of public works is institutionalised and the necessary expropriations and archaeological work must be completed. He proposed another institutionalized contract for over 10 million projects. We're talking about it. I believe that it cannot be legislated now, because there are projects that cannot be done. For example, on the metro with our state of affairs, which we do not know where the underground networks are going, this cannot be done. We'll have long delays. We do not reject the proposal. Let us see it in the next draft law, in the categories of projects, which must and can be implemented, and institutionalised. Thirdly, the mandatory consultation of the standards with clear procedures and rules is being introduced, not as was the case until now: consultation to say that consultation has taken place. Fourthly, the responsibility and specifications of subcontractors and providers of capacity loans are established. Today the subcontractors were at the discretion of the contractor, without control, without specification, without liability and, of course, without rights themselves. Fifthly, enforcement rules are being established for all public contracts. For the first time, the right to a unilateral solution to a public contract is explicitly enshrined. To date, if a contract had been signed and there was then a court decision finding that the contractor was in one of the exclusion situations, the Greek State, if the contract had been terminated, would have paid compensation. I'm saying, to know what we're curing after all these years of pathogen. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Sixthly, the promotion of public contracts with social characteristics, such as the occupational and social integration of disabled, social cooperatives, disadvantaged workers, is institutionalised. Seventh, the technical adequacy of contracting authorities shall be established. And he knows very well what the technical world is doing with technical services that have from zero to fewer engineers and no logistics infrastructure and are obliged to carry out projects. Eighth, as regards the way in which the competition committees are set up, they are registered by electronic drawers. The same way was accepted for the receiving committees. Ninth, direct award contracts, without what existed to date, the continuous awards to one, be it from either a municipality or a ministry. We'll have a record and an electronic draw. Whoever gets direct assignment comes out of the legacy and goes to next assignment. Tenth, the public procurement file is being established. I am speaking in writing, Mr President, because we have also talked about it in committee. Eleventh, the award procedure shall be simplified and the award procedure accelerated. Twelfth, which is one of the very big changes in public works, is the obligation of the project contractor, before the start of the purely construction work, to prepare, deliver and of course to approve the project's implementation study. On motorways, say, we had no implementation study, we had them much later. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance because the bill is too heavy. The designer is set up to complete his work as a technical consultant for the surveillance at the end of the projects. Therefore, it also has a responsibility to be able to correct the studies or studies which are not of applicability. We're changing the study system - construction. I want to say two things here because there has been a lot of discussion. The committee that referred to it - in the past, if I remember correctly, when I was Vice-President of the TEU, but then when I was chairman, there was a corresponding debate - aimed at limiting the system to specific areas of implementation in specific projects. There was no committee to change and make this system transparent. What does that mean? It means that we all recognise that projects in these categories will be set up. I mean, we're gonna have set-up work on biological cleansing. We're not going to do this. And I'm talking about biologically very specific. I have been to the Ministry of Danes from envelopes for such projects to be auctioned with the design-building system and I have not signed one, and let municipalities and local communities call themselves. We change the system to ensure that there is transparency in this system, not to set up. We expect proposals if you think it can improve even more. I think that where there was a grey zone it was corrected by these changes. We are also facing another phenomenon that is important for the time we are going through, which is a period of crisis: we have no maturity projects. We must have at least two, three systems so that smaller public units, such as municipalities and regions, and the central ministries can run projects that do not have final studies. Sixteenth change is the research services. Seventeenth major change is the award of study contracts by means of a technical solution. Eighteenth change is the unforeseen expenditure on study contracts, which has been agitating scholars for years. I would also like to reply to some questions and concerns raised further. Mr Metarakis stylishly asked what we are doing for small and medium-sized enterprises and then for the so-called partition, which he denounced in the committee responsible - it seems to me that he was Mr Alfouzos. The two questions are combined. What did we find, ladies and gentlemen? We found more than 80% of the Ministry's works and supervised bodies to be in the few companies of the seventh class. That's what we found. New Democracy is asking us today what we are doing for small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, not what she did. Second, what do we do? And we had said this in the election: we are making works auctions with multiple smaller-purpose contests so that more contestants and small and medium-sized companies can participate. This isn't partition. You're getting confused. The partition was the forty-fives in the district of Thessaloniki. Mr. Hatzidakis is gone. It was partition, for example, without a competition for 800,000 euros, when it was at the Ministry of Transport, in the media, which the Court of Auditors rejected. These are fragmentation, no contest or other procedures. I understand the pain of the New Democracy to unravel the works that were set up for a few. Let's just remind you that Olympia Street - because this work implied both the canalarch and the New Democracy - it contained the Patras - Tower motorway. In the revision of the concession you removed it. Why? How much did this road cost? Did you know the budget? Were there any studies? Was there a contract? Were there any budgets? What discount did you get for these budgets? These are empty letters for everyone and for the existing contract. Which seven-year companies are involved in Olympia? All seven companies and foreign big companies, except two. So they had arranged to conduct a competition with few participants, and now they are sad that there was no competition with five big companies. There have been four competitions so far and there will be four others. In three we have a shareholder, from 53% to 57% discount. We are again asking what was the discount of the contractors and the concessionaire for the Olympian road to make the comparison. Of course, Mr Hatzidakis flies, after he throws the mud into the fan, and a 'legal' is. All right! But let's go ahead and see what relationships there are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u172	How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u173	Four minutes, Mr President. Mr Hatzidakis, I'm going to tell you something personal, and it's okay to miss you, because the New Democracy colleagues will take it to you. I've never hidden my friends or my friends, and I'm proud of them. So relationships have been friendly from a long time, and for the particular point you've asked, they're not with the specific businessman you're talking about, but with his son. There's never been any business relationships. I did not know that once you became a Member or a Minister, he would have to stop whoever you knew before. But we would like you to answer me - and this is a very nice question - how the partner of this businessman is the right hand of your President Mr Mitsotakis and he is doing you seminars.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u174	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u175	What I'm asking is this: How does the business partner of this particular businessman, whom you ask me to take these three works, is the right hand of your President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and does you have seminars? I have a friend, his son. All right! Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u176	I don't understand, Minister! Let's hear what you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u177	Let's go down! You will only be able to indict us if there is any discrimination. Anyone who is he, whether a friend known or unknown, but not like this. That's enough of the mud you've thrown. Otherwise, Mr Hatzidakis, you, along with the leadership of the New Democracy, are joining the neoliberal group of neoliberal populists that brought the country, but also the New Democracy together, in today's debate. All that remains the same are the canalarchs whose views coincide with yours, as are their agony. In fact, Mr. Metarakis mentioned it. He asked, he says, a canalarch about it. It is written by the various media creditors. We don't have a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also asked - why do you not follow - how these "faithful" disguise every three and little of their writings or words. You'll get used to it! We're different and we'll ever be the same. And for the fun to end, I challenge Mr. Hadjidakis, Mr. Mitsotakis, and anyone else who wants to present here whenever they want, our property, our accounts, where each of us has worked and how they were acquired. And that's not just for us, it's for our family. To end this whole story! That can be done whenever you want, in public, here! Now we're going to public works. You said that we are launching works that others have done. Let us come to what projects we have carried out and what projects you have carried out. You're also talking about opening up, that we're supposed to be inaugurating. You were the only inaugurated ones with transported workers - if I remember correctly, with Mr Samaras - and with billions of compensation, due to the lack of expropriation, the non-environmental licensing, the non-transmission of networks and the failure to complete the archaeological work. The world, our fellow citizens, they see and know. That's why the citizens who have been behind you for years have turned your back on you forever. So I come to the projects we do. First of all, we do the projects that need to be completed. I'm talking about all the stuck, dead and indebted works that you left from Mr. Souflias to this day, almost two decades ago. In addition, we do works that were a dream for you. Yesterday it was implemented - the competition came out and we also have a shareholder - for the Thariasian freight centre. I guess you'll know. We continue with Kastelli, with the rail network and the railway network projects, with the BOAK and, in general, the projects that will bring the country's productive reconstruction rather than the projects that are for a few years, the interests and projects for the projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u178	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u179	I shall conclude, Mr President, and a thousand apologies for the delay. Mr. Maniotis asked a question, which I have to answer, to explain. You asked about the technical advisers for projects of more than EUR 30 million for the experts and why this provision exists. So this prediction existed and we maintain it. And we maintain it, because it often needs safety or risk management. I'll tell you where it has been used so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u180	That's the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u181	No, that's her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u182	What you're saying is the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u183	No, no. It's the first. It's only for technicians, for projects of over 30 million. Read and wherever you want, we will give you additional explanations. It was used - and rightly so, in my opinion - when we had a landslide in Saradi, when a section of the outside aqueduct was destroyed in Mornos and the proper water supply of the capital had ceased. I believe that we can and should have this tool when we want to check a contract without the consultancy company working with the contractors themselves or the concessionaires. In other words, the political leadership of each ministry should have it as a tool. If you want to limit it and ensure transparency, we are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u184	Good, Minister! They're waiting upstairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u185	I know, Mr. President. I'll be done. As for the five areas proposed by the Democratic Reconciliation, we have said so about the small and medium-sized enterprises. As for rewarding good civil servants, it belongs to the other bill, where the registers are, and we will discuss specific proposals. The same is true of the technical specifications and precursors. I would like to stress that in areas, in draft laws like the current one that we have complex and specialised legislation, we are not allowed to nullify the existing situation, but also the world that operates around public procurement and public works. Our legislation, the institutional framework for the production of projects has been vacant, needs supplements, modalities and changes, to cure distortions. However, it is not a third-world system for the production of works that we must zero. The country has know-how, it has developed procedures and we have to have the greatest possible consultation and convergence so that the changes that will be made are targeted. It should not constantly change the institutional framework, with obvious consequences or delays, with upsetting public services and the market. It is particularly important that there should be intermodal consultation and wide-ranging convergences on these issues, which I believe Parliament has achieved with negligible misgivings today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Christos Spirtzi. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, Mr Brutsi has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u188	Do you want to, Mr. Brutsi? Because that's how it was requested. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u189	In turn, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u190	In turn, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u192	And you, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u193	Aren't we going to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u194	Okay. Now Mr. Brutsis is up, and then you are. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Spirtz has made a big mistake. He called on the New Democracy for populism to see me in front of him, who, as Minister of Labour for two and a half years, I had the honour of having against me Mr Spirtzi, who is now talking about populism for Mr Hatzidakis and the New Democracy. Mr. Spirtzis as trade unionist was chaining out of the Mechanics Fund, inviting engineers to the logic and direction of "Don't Pay", putting dams outside the Mechanics Fund so that engineers wouldn't pay and he was also the protagonist of the "Don't Pay" movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u196	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u197	The Minister, Mr Spirtzis, who today with his mask as a so-called technocrat, comes to invoke the New Democracy on populism. So be careful, Minister, at least when you have me toward you, I personally know your behaviour. Secondly, I have heard this about public competitions and the issues that have remained open. I have not heard an answer from the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, to the Minister for the partitioning of the work in eight sections. Also, I didn't get an answer about who he is who got the three of the eight sections of the project, Minister, as I didn't get a real answer and why you did it. What engineers and people who deal with public works know about the economy outside is that partition has two major problems: first, it increases the risk. And secondly, it increases the cost. These issues remain open, they will follow you and we will wait for convincing answers to the end, to tell us who, because and in what process. I come to the other issues. I have listened with pleasure to both Ministers for an entire hour to place themselves and to rejoice and triumph for a bill that has four hundred articles and six hundred pages. The New Democracy really stands positively against the bill. It is part of and is institutionally modernised for the whole framework of public procurement. But, don't take it on you, it's not a inauguration ribbon, that others did the work, and today you're cutting it. It is a similar function of a bill that is a European directive and we must adopt it. It's not yours, Minister. It is something positive that comes from Europe. We are happy to hear the changes and the areas that it brings about and which are really right, but it is not the work of the SYRIZA, it is not a legislative initiative of the SYRIZA, it is a Community directive that is incorporated and that is why we support it. However, as ladies and gentlemen, this dialogue is taking place in a quiet climate within the House, at a very different wavelength, in society there are other intaken images, as the House closes in about four days from today, the wounds you have left in society are open, Mr Ministers, and for economic and social problems itself, which will be opened very soon after the summer, as the citizens, the pensioners, the unemployed, the employees, come to their pockets, from tax to HISPIA, as far as the insurance contributions to farmers, the free traders, the whole society. And you know what? The work becomes even more pressing and the wrath will be greater as the government today observes something inconceivable, which we knew. There is now a widespread belief in society that Greece is an inseparable ship, that it is fully in lawlessness and that we are living in a political environment of schizophrenia: on the one hand SYRIZA as government and on the other, SYRIZA as a party and on the other is against one another. And, of course, the silence of fish on major issues relating to the operation, the order in the country, which has a completely negative climate for the balance to be achieved, both social cohesion and social peace. The government has accepted, without reacting, to the so-called "opposites", "bugs" taking over the largest university in the country, with enormous damage. And here is the challenge, Mr Ministers. These damages will be transferred to the citizens' account in September and you know it, but you do nothing, you did not react, because the other half of SYRIZA is fighting the other half. And the most challenging thing? Two days have passed, ladies and gentlemen, since the unprecedented event in historical times: the occupation of a temple and SYRIZA today has not taken place and has not been officially placed, because one part of the SYRIZA fights the other. Many say it is a reality in trying to balance the components. Others say it is a conscious choice, a drunkenness and a plan to undermine and tear down anything worthwhile and institutionally present in Greece. I turn to the second point. It is not by chance that your attitude is a conscious choice and a attitude you make from the outset, do not take a position, let lawlessness dominate, do not place and censor the ministers of other ministries themselves many times. Look what happened. The Minister for Justice was here a moment ago and he did not say anything about two very important issues: one was the placement of the "very heavy" Mr Polakis. Mr. Paulakis has offended justice once again. Minister of Government came out and condemned, Mr Ministers - and it would be good to answer - the decision of justice and, furthermore, the self-evident functioning of the police for something that was legitimate. Finally, as has been said before, the law is the law of SYRIZA, so the government understands it. And the most serious thing? That sounded like that before, but that's why you didn't answer. It is now possible, and here too, to ask great questions about the security of the country - the secret documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to release them and post them on the Internet as "Ruvikon". What do you have to say about that, Ministers? What answer does the government and Mr Kotzias give? Or will there be deafening silence in this by the government, as happened with SYRIZA, as was the matter of the Church? Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a very sloppy environment whose outrage and social anger you will face it in the autumn when the accounts come, which have already begun. Today - to repeat this - pensioners in front of the ATMs have seen what you promised, that pensions will not be cut, that supplementary pensions are cut to 20% by 30%. That's the truth. Two months ago, the low-retireees were seen losing the NSA. That's the truth. And where does the entire account get to the remaining three hundred thousand at the end of the year? They will see in September, October, the SYRIZA's new HISRIZA, 20 percent increased, all Greek citizens. And they will see from 1 January what the free professionals, doctors, lawyers, these classmates, said by Mr Katrugalos, have not yet realised, the contributions that have been converted into tax rates at 37%, and with them, as well as farmers. Is that what you promise? And will society handle this? That is why you should know that all political issues are open. You've brought a great disaster to the country. Greece now looks like an unscrupulous ship. You've lost your direction. We all know now that you are in front of a panic in a vertigo, because on the one hand you face social anger every day, wherever you are, and on the other hand you must balance yourself with something that you do not believe. That's all in front of us. These are all challenges for society and for the political system. That is why what we are telling you is at least - regardless of what your decisions will be, regardless of your intentions to manipulate the media, to degrade institutions and values - keep the country as much as you can at the level of its fundamental values, because what you expect or have as a project for Greece is something that is not worthy of, but, above all, you know, the New Democracy and the whole political world of our country will not allow you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u199	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Brutsis forgets very quickly. Firstly, I was never ironic and none of the engineers who were protesting. Five years you have seen us once, on a strike, all the scientific bodies. You dragged us to the financial prosecutors, as a government, because we were working for the arbitrary, as if the arbitrary were going away. I remind you. But you're saying here! The third and most important, Mr Brutsi, is that Mr Selianakis, the President of the EBRD, who has appointed you. We did not put them, nor did we ban the entry and access of engineers to the fund. Secondly, the economic analysis you have done for Patras - Tower justifies how Mr Brutsis threw the insurance and the New Democracy on the rocks. When more is involved in a competition, Mr. Brutsi, competition increases. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u201	You'll tell the Pope.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u202	That's different, your friends there on existing channels are different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u203	Is there another one there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u204	There's another one there. So whoever gives the biggest discount on the contests gets the contest. When the project is not being carried out properly, it is coming down and that is why there is a clear provision now, not as it has been for so many years. Therefore, Mr Brutsis, Mr Hadjidakis should probably answer the questions that were asked to him and when he was Minister and for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I did not understand any of what the Minister said, nor did I anyone else give a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u207	It's okay. We proceed with Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Spirtzi, did you not have chains or was it too verbal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u209	No, he wanted to tie me up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u210	I'd love to see that if you had. If you have a picture, you should send it to me. Mr. Brutsis, it was a glimpse. It wasn't the man, was it? I'd like to have seen that. Let's start with the day, August 2. Every month that passes we celebrate, at the beginning of the next, and something serious and good that SYRIZA does for the benefit of the people he serves. I was listening this morning to the only existence - one exists today! - TV channel with political broadcasts - the others are closing or afraid of being licensed - in the only, in one, in the SYRIZA regime - which, with democracy, has little to do with what is proven - I was listening today to a Parliamentary representative of the majority party telling how much friends of the people are. Today, retired people are seeing this with the reductions in their supplementary pension! In a corresponding speech a month ago, we celebrated the cuts of the EVS for tens of thousands of people. People’s friends are proved in practice every day with their things. Unemployment, the parliamentary representative was being taken on board, is being reduced. He'll close, he says, somewhere close to 24% in 2016. But the forecasts were for 19% in 2016. And the recession, they say, will go to 2%. But it would be 3.7% growth in 2016. People's friends when will they do something good for this world? When will they be able in the National Representation Hall, which is why - in fact - to say something that was ultimately for the benefit of the workers, for the benefit of those who are allegedly defending, for the benefit of those who have so far felt only mockery of what has been done since January 2015 by SYRIZA? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is also a matter of the day. Did I not hear you say anything about the 2009 deficit, which all of your ministers have so far invoked in the way it was agreed, recorded by ELSTAT, but also by the corresponding agency of the European Commission? Because we remember all the events in 2009. We remember exactly how much the deficit was in terms of billions and we all remember in ‘15 how it increased by two points, not by the intervention of ELSTAT, but by the accounts that the Commission responsible has made from the Commission's side. And these specific developments I remember day after day and I have them recorded in my political calendar with absolute accuracy. I do not hear you say anything, you have two words to say about justice more than other political parties, not respecting your independence. Cuveda! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not watching and have not made any reference to the years of my science - before the House - and my parliamentary activity, praise or reproach on justice. Never! Justice is affected even when you praise her. Its independence is supported by other state functions when you don't talk about its decisions. And so I won't judge, I won't judge any of what they look through the naked eye. But I will say, ladies and gentlemen, that in the previous period of the House, in the Committee of Inquiry, I have lived closely with ELSTAT from deposits made by its officials. I do not remember their names, but I remember that they supported some monstrous things, that messages come from beyond, something metaphysically "the fun." "Breaked" that we did not understand, but those who communicate over and over and over understood. We were told that and that was what we found in their resumes that they were telling the time of the complaints of SYRIZA and ANEL. I can't hear the majority representatives talking today. Are these random procedures? We'll see. In any case, from the experience of the Committee of Inquiry, the relevant categories had the element of comedy, a comedy, which, if anyone brings it into the drama of Greek society, is becoming a drama. And it is for pity, indeed, the Greek citizens, all of us, Greece, our country, when in responsible political positions people like them were appointed or heard in general. Speaking also of general political issues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise the issue of the occupation of a temple, referring to the Metropolis of Thessaloniki, with its dimensions in the public dialogue of the place, but also with another one that has not been heard. Don't you have parts of Fundamental Rights of Individual Freedoms? You made an announcement? Did a statement come from the Department of Fundamental Freedoms on what happened? Did one of your people talk? She convicted it? Aren't these famous internal committees not sensitive? Aren't they our fellow citizens who thus serve their worship? Do you have the right to interfere? Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 I was twice a representative of the government in parades in Piraeus for two national festivals, both of which were dispersed by various parades. You were there, and with piracy initiatives, you broke the parades. In my statements at the time on 25 March I said that the next target would be Epitaphis, Easter coming. I hadn't exactly remembered that this was going to happen in the end. I made this statement in the form of a postal political intervention. However, the conviction that I made on the Internet found online friends of the attack, "treams" that are according to it, also happened. And some others took a message, put a bomb in a church in Heraklion, Crete, in Agios Dimitrios, a gazaki or a bomb or something like that. We're not doing well! We're not going well, especially when we have a government that looks at them. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. A word has not said! Nothing has been left outside an isotopeic logic SYRIZA, manifested in all places, but in all places and here, in Thessaloniki with Metropolis. A few days after the incidents at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki I was with a colleague of SYRIZA in a public dialogue and said "But, with the graffiti, we have no problem". We don't have a problem with graffiti either. But we have a problem with the capture of spaces, with the dissolution of spaces, with the perception that every public educational institution "is our hand" to do what we want to break it. That's not things. And it's not an extra-parliamentary Left. It's SYRIZA. It's SYRIZA literally. They should be seen by the citizens, those who voted for them with what they said in January 2015, but also in September 2015 with the parallel programmes and see the product of their political choice and their behaviour in this regard. Now, on two issues relating to the draft law, I have heard Mr Spirtzi and here do what majority colleagues in the majority are doing, who are cutting off the ESS and who are in favour of the ESS, reducing pensions and coming here and are in favour of increasing pensions. That's the rhetoric. I'm saying other than what I'm doing, and I'm saying it unregulated here, when my draft law is exactly the opposite to what I'm saying. It says now, 'transparency everywhere'. To go to Article 128. For contracts of more than 30 million, i.e. for large projects, as consultants, technicians - that is, legal, economic and other matters, as the first paragraph of 128 defines - it may take place freely, through a rough competitive procedure. Isn't that right? This also applies to his Ministry, but to paragraph 3 of 128 and to all the Ministries, by signing a co-legislative Minister. Why is that 'transparency everywhere'? You're gods, gods of opacity! Can you imagine we did this? Can you imagine Minister of our own party that he's going to have such an arrangement? What would he hear? What would they call him literature, politicians, televisions? Is a fully opaque provision being released for free use, and does the rapporteur tell us the provision 'transparency everywhere'? Where everywhere? And for projects, read 128, over 30 million. Opacity everywhere, dear gods of opacity! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, with regard to the articles relating to the subject that the Minister for Justice, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, supported this morning. Because of the examination I did not hear the beginning of his report, but I took the Minutes that were published a moment ago and I am now fully aware of many provisions of the draft law relating to the principle of review of references. First of all, we did not raise the issue of constitutionality. He had concerns. The final product does not present such problems, the tens of provisions of the draft law - from 345 onwards, I think - which deal with this issue. However, he said that he was addressed to the Council of State. Mr Minister, we would like the answer from the Council of State. We ask the Minister for this. He's not here now, but you can let him know that we want to see exactly what thoughts the court has submitted to the government. The move to ask the court is a good move. But now we are actually going to do that. He says that there have been three phases so far. If a person complained of a decision relating to those contracts, he was, first, entitled to bring an action before the contracting authority, i.e., within the Ministry, then go to the courts for insurance and finally go to the courts, the Council of State, at the request of the Minister of State. That's right. Now, he says, we're changing those. The first two procedures are seen as more'short' and therefore the conventions should be shaped in a more rapid way, i.e. more efficiently. Speed is an element of effectiveness. And now, instead of complaining to the administration, you're turning towards a principle of quasi-independent. And then, ladies and gentlemen, your ability to lodge insurance measures with the courts and create annulling dispute is maintained. Where's the shortening of the years? How does it turn out? That's why I asked him how he saw the abbreviation evolving and mentioned the first two stages. For a few minutes I asked him, he answered. Let's see now how the setting is shaping. Does, Minister, lead to a slowdown? I do not judge the correctness of the other issues that Mr Maniotis has raised in committee and in plenary. I'm counting on his location. But I add a question. Why's the process going faster? This is a principle that has legal members, 30 members, its chairman, will come from all over Greece and after this procedure has been completed - obviously you cannot abolish the fundamental right to legal protection - then you will also do the insurance measures, then you will also make the application for annulment. Why would that go faster? The appreciation we make with Mr. Maniotis is that it will go a lot slower. You should give an answer to this, at least in this matter which has nothing to do with various wicked aspects of public administration, but from a common goal of moving things faster - because we are late in Greece, especially in cases with economic content, the deceleration made by the deceleration is very great - if what we are doing is making things faster, or if they are going slower, in the sense of specific issues - and I have finished - which has this part of the draft law and the two issues that I have raised, which - not to mention - are not part of the directive, but an initiative from the Greek Government. It is not a part of the directive where the debate would be a debate on the diagram without being able to intervene. These are the initiatives of the Ministries. On both these issues, the answers we have received so far, on the second issue, are not at all satisfactory or do not demonstrate the government's allegations, and on the first, 'transparency', the Minister for Public Works owes a clear answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause]] I am looking for all the last few days that this bill has been introduced to the committees and already to the House today, the reason why it has been so quickly debated, in one day, whether it is urgent, urgent or simply urgent. I have therefore asked for the instructions to be seen, because the government claims that there is an obligation for the country to comply with adjustment deadlines which have been exceeded. So I said, in my opinion, that it might be a serious bill, which will give a breath to the country that needs so much. But I've said it - a perversion, and I'm looking for it. So I went to the directives that we are incorporating today, which gave me the impression that they are useful interpretative tools of the law introduced, at least in those provisions which are a copy of the directives. What have we seen, ladies and gentlemen? We have seen that this directive concerns a large part of the economy, public procurement, i.e. public works, services and supplies of material. So what does the directive that we incorporate under paragraph 26 of the preamble say? ‘In view of the recent creation of the European Financial Stability Fund and the European Stability Mechanism, it should be laid down that transactions with those Funds and mechanism should be excluded from the scope of this Directive. Finally, it should be clarified that loans, whether or not linked to the issue of securities or other financial instruments or other related operations, should be excluded from the scope of this Directive.’ Therefore, any activity with regard to the aid of the so-called Memorandums, with the loans, even the last n.4389, which was voted on by the government and carried most of the national property under the administration and management of a naive holding company - I have not concluded how this company will be run, whether or not it will be run by Greeks or foreigners and in reflection we do not know how the Greek banks, which I do not know whether they have been left behind or not. So, if we combine this, it comes to a conclusion that the scope of the new legislation, which is now called for by the House to vote on, is very limited, because everything that comes into the country, what is attempting to create 'rich', in the sense that the revenues more than a large proportion of the so-called holding company will be served by debt and the control of creditors, will not be a task which will be subject to the law that this House is called upon to vote today. Why am I saying this, since we are talking about exploiting any form of national, public-owned property with the holding company, the TSE, the Public Property Company, the CF? Keep a note of what I'm telling you about tomorrow. CFS is in trouble. Hold on, ladies and gentlemen, note. What I'm saying is we'll live it tomorrow. What's he telling us? We'll have a good law for public works, supplies and services. But where will we have him? In what chapters, in what possibilities of the Greek State, will there be a need for projects? Nephew, silence. We will, of course, vote for the bill in principle and vote for the overwhelming number of those provisions incorporating the directives and, at the same time, are complementary provisions in the directives, after deciding to abolish the previous framework under Law 3669/2008. It is a great law, the so-called 'Souflia' law, which has never been observed, because then every contract that was to be made, development, motorways - we will talk tomorrow about concessions - had something else that the Greek people never learned, or at least those who were not interested. It did not know that the large, the so-called co-financed projects were starting with an advance of the Greek State and then the investor, the special-purpose company, came. When the government had started the advance, when they had settled on the construction site, he went to the bank and asked for a loan, since he now had the guarantees. If it was a little late - and we have been living lately, of course, it is not particularly the subject of today's debate - if it were to be delayed, irresponsible from the sleeve - as if we were to take the ace off many times - and a so-called 'acceleration contract' of some tens of million provided for in the law, which had ratified these conventions, that if the state had a responsibility, we will not go too far to arbitration, because it is also a laudable one. "You will give us a backup, so we can start again." We've been living for these days again for the streets. Maybe we'll hear about the N65, we'll probably hear about the Ionian. Let's not go into details. The law will be passed by us. We will stand by some who will be placed. It does not mean that this law, in our view, will bring about a potential for the execution of large or even medium-sized public works. I would like to say something empirically at this point. I'm standing in Article 53. I've been looking for it for three or four days, to see if it's a repetition of previous arrangements. Where, ladies and gentlemen? In the budget of the project. It shall necessarily be drawn up in any public service task, supply. We need a budget. We can't wait for the offerr, what he'll give us. So here is all the maliciousness and I see it repeated. I do not see any valves that can solve this issue. So the project budget has always given a decision of the Minister for Public Works, with the environment, perhaps infrastructure today. He always gave a detailed invoice situation that was revised every three months. Every three months it has always been revised upwards. It happened in my professional career that I handled a public works auction case. So I had to resort to the detailed list, the tariff for roadworks, where the famous party was held. But there were twelve points of asphalt, six of them elsewhere. Where would we take the tests? The engineers of yours will know much better than I do. So I happened to go back to the current prices to see if the contract was reasonable, if the discount given by my commissioner was real and whether he could carry out the project. You know what I found out? That at least the tariff for roadworks was 100% increased compared to the current commercial market prices, so a 40%, 30% discount was given and we all stayed satisfied. The budget was ten million, we got him seven, and the contractor will also save the state three million, and where did we get there? The project with delays, the project with revisions, the work with unforeseen events, the work with additional work to go through the ten million of the initial budget and reach twenty. I will not mention any more examples. I will only say this: in roadworks the price of cubic inert material is even estimated at EUR 16.5 for the execution of a road construction project today. It does 4,70 in the quarry and "kill" prices and go down every day, because there is no demand and the materials accumulate. So let's see them along the way. We have a basic objection to the so-called 'Independent Prosecutor of Prosecutors' and we have a vertical objection, not for reasons of constitutionality or not, whether or not it is the delegation of an indirect judicial role to non-judiciary. I don't go into those details. I'm saying something else, what's this Preliminary Appeals Authority doing? It does the work previously done by the Council of State with the public works insurance measures in the directive introduced by Mr von Wogau. 2522 in Greece. So what's he doing? Since it is no longer a judicial authority, in order to comply with the constitutional obligation of Article 20(2) of the Constitution, we grant the right to the Council of State or the Administrative Court, depending on the category of the Convention and the amount, and a request to suspend the decisions of the so-called independent authority. We therefore double the administrative burden and the judicial burden. Why? I have the practice of the Board of Directors, number 13/2016, which I understand has been attempted by the Council of State to get rid of, to dismantle. However, I also see thoughts saying that temporary protection is now being made before it ineffective because it creates the possibility of providing legal protection. My last point: I have seen many independent so-called principles which are presided over by former judges and, above all, by senior judges, and there I have a stronger objection to the principle of appeal and I will explain it immediately. Supreme Judges. So what do the highest judges tell us? 'We must make good legal decisions'. What, then, did the Competition Committee say when I asked its President how many decisions were taken in a year and how many cases are pending? He said to me: "You know, we made ten decisions in 2013 or 2014" - I'm not exactly in time - "but nothing fell in court". I replied: 'I wanted fifteen, twenty, fifty decisions to support competition and not to be in competition with the supreme judges, who are headed by the authorities, not to accept the so-called'mistakes in their sword' to say: 'But will this have the effect of judging me? I have to make a perfect decision, because the one I was the head of, I cannot now become an existing, in the sense that he judges me in court." So this is a complete failure. Unfortunately, the Greek reality supports this and with legislation. It's a complete failure. I would remind the House at least that the committees, the Ottawa Court of Justice, were previously in the House. Legislation by the well-known law of “Kallikrates”. Has it ever been created, has it ever worked? Oh, no. The Secretary-General still deems the decisions of the municipalities to be final. So let us not create such luxurious instruments. My last point - because I think that this issue is now being exhausted - is this: in Greece we must also support certain principles and maintain them. In the last few days there has been a discount of the authorities. I won't say much. I will make a few remarks about justice, whose prestige is shaken every day. And judges are, mistakes will do, egos will, if you want, a lot will happen. Let's stay one last shelter. And a second refuge that I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to stay in Greece or those who have the transcendental image of faith - I do not consider, I do not blame anyone for the extent he believes or believes or not - is religion. Religion is metaphysical, but let us also respect religion, even though we do not believe. Let us respect each other's values and principles. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association. Mr Santorini has the floor, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, many issues have really been raised outside the bill that we are discussing and I think some of them should be discussed. Because there's been a lot of noise. For example, Mr Loverdes told us about the developments that exist in the case of Mr Georgios. Mr. Loverdo, we were together in that committee of inquiry. You remember Mr. Georgiou never came.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u216	When did he get here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u217	He didn't come. Another of the "terrestrials" came.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Georgiou never came. You remember, however, that Mr Georgiou never came by arguing that he was in the intensive sector, and at the same time signed the decisions to move officials. The newer evolution says he's referring to the enlargement of the deficit. So what do we want to say? The deficit was swelled. That's what we said, that's what we need to see. I think that also Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, the Vice-President of Parliament, with a tweet I see here in an article that I will present, says: “After the slap of the Ice Arena in the famous Mr. Georgiou, it is time for this one and the only committee of inquiry on how we entered the Memorandum”. That's what Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis says. Of course, it is strange to see an article signed by Mr Yiannis Michelakis. If I'm not mistaken, he was the Minister of the New Democracy. On the specific site that I mentioned before, he says that by order of Mitsotakis no announcement was made about the ELSTAT case of Mr Georgios. Really, for what? Is there an alliance? Is it not for us to discuss how we entered the Memorandum? That was yesterday. It's not old sour grapes. They happened yesterday. I'm filing the post in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There have been a lot of deafening silences. The question came up because we didn't make a statement about anarchists entering the church. First, the police went, arrested them, hired them, then turned the whole case into arrests and took the court proceedings. The question is: Should we put church issues in political controversy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u219	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u220	That's what I'm saying. Are you asking us to make announcements on church matters? At the same time, you leave insinuation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u221	Complaint the church's desecration. An announcement you didn't make as you did for so many others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u222	You say that SYRIZA has something to do with them, it has to do with terrorism. This is a constant tactic of the New Democracy and the Right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u223	Was it so hard to denounce the church's desecration? Two days you haven't spoken about the church's desecration!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u224	A life has denounced the Left that it has anything to do with terrorism. You know that well, gentlemen of the Democratic Alliance, they did so in '81. Why are you getting into this process? Why did you once again denounce what they did to you? Why have you denounced us that we have a connection with terrorism? We have nothing to do with terrorism. We have nothing to do with such moves. What the government had to do was from there and beyond! You told us that there was a deafening silence in this matter. Really, Mr. Brutsi, will you tell us anything about UBS? Will you tell us anything about Mr. Slavonis? Will you tell us anything about the one who wrote your development programme? Or is that why you're making deafening silence? Not to talk about other deafening silences, which we know about the past, but we'll leave it there. Let's go to your favorite topic. Your favorite point is Mr. Paulakis. You have a special weakness. And the New Democracy and the PASOK have a special weakness with Mr Polakis. So you're telling us about Trikala Hospital. First, the decision came out on Friday, notified on Monday, and the police did the following terrible thing: they arrested two administrative officials and two cleaners on Saturday night. Since the administration on Saturday night did not have this suspension decision, should it not have carried out the government's decision, which said that we are now stopping the contractors and going to individual contracts with the workers? However, the political appeal is different. What the police did, what justice did is a matter. But here, will you answer? With the government's practice to stop cleaning contractors, 80m euros are saved in hospitals and the wages of cleaners are increased from EUR 300-350 to EUR 780.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u225	Where? When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u226	The contracts signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u227	Did you pay them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u228	They've been paid, Mrs. Vulture. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u229	You've got them. You had them a few months unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u230	They've been paid, Mrs. Swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u231	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u232	Will you answer that? Is it in the interests of the health system, yes or no? Will you answer whether the practice we practice is for the benefit or is it damage? Shall we go back to the contractors? Is that what you're asking? Shall we give an additional EUR 80 million to the health system? I was listening before Mr. Tasouula and what he said. It's not personal, Mr. Tasoula. You made us an attack that was important, I'd say. But you said something that is really true. You said people were disappointed by the old system of power and that's why you voted for us. At least you admitted this, that you had disappointed the world, that with your practices you had ruined society all these years. That's why they came to us. But from that point on, tell me why they have to go back to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u233	Because you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u234	Why have you been excavated in Civic Antipolitics? The Greek people don't forget what you did. It does not forget what has been done, not only in the years of the memorandum but in the 40 years before. He won't forget it and he won't come back to you. In three years when the elections are going to be, I'm absolutely sure they'll back up SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u235	Are you absolutely sure about the three years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u236	But wait, let's see. Do not pre-paid the decision of the Greek people. You wait three years, you wait for the next elections, and then you and I will be judged. We for our governance and you for your counterpopulation. From there on and to slowly enter the bill as long as I have left, it has been heard that we do not support small and medium-sized enterprises. I think he has responded adequately. However, I have here the calls of the NSRP 2014-2020 and in particular the four calls of the EMCDDA. Sixteen thousand ninety-three proposals have been submitted to the strengthening of higher education graduates, with an average budget of EUR 25,887. Are they big? The ‘New Intelligent entrepreneurship’ programme averaged EUR 60.455. Are they big? In strengthening tourist enterprises - and the title says it - the average of a proposal is EUR 27,100. Are these big business? Is that what we're supporting? Let me see what we're talking about. The EMEA has come out to support small and medium-sized enterprises. We'll do it in September. There will be three other proposals, if I am not mistaken, Minister, to support small and medium-sized enterprises. And the last: Upgrading small and medium-sized enterprises. Budget average EUR 118,976. Are all these businesses that will be supported by the ENPANEC the major businesses that you have complained to us that we are currently supporting or small and medium-sized enterprises with this bill? This is how we support small and medium-sized enterprises. We also support them with the development law, which, as we have said, is a development law which is focused on small and medium-sized enterprises. The minimum business groups, as they were in the previous development laws, do not take 42% of the resources available for them. So I'll go to the bill, too. The draft is not only an obligation of the country to harmonise national legislation with European directives. It is our duty as a country and as a government to modernise the multi-teaching law of awarding public contracts, because today existing law is ineffective, fragmented and leaves much room for the development of customer relations between contracting authorities and contractors. I'll tell you one thing. Mr. Spirtzis used an example, but I have a personal experience of others. It was widely used by the Information Society in 2007-2013, which became the famous broadband networks. We're still not exploited. They don't know why it happened. However, all this, instead of work, a commission was baptized and received to two companies throughout Greece. One was getting into one town and the other one into the other town. That is how you supported small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't have much time and I'd like to say enough. There was a lot of talk about Mr. Hatzidakis' L.4281. Let's tell the truth here. Law 4281 was not a law that could be implemented. It was a shell. He wanted about a hundred presidential decrees and ministerial decisions to be implemented. Anyway, if you thought it could be applied, by December 2014 why didn't you apply it? In August you voted for him. Question: Isn't it four months? Why didn't you apply him since he was so good? [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You said to us: 'But why didn't you make the rules then?' Because at the same time you knew very well, before you voted the law, in April 2014, that Directives 24 and 25 had come out. We had to harmonize national law with Community law. What was the priority? Should we catch the 2016 deadline that we had to harmonise national law or draw up presidential decrees that would come out after six months, for six months of implementation? Because that's it. For six months application. We have therefore chosen to consult the bodies - one year this consultation has taken place - so that we can bring today a law that we are genuinely proud of. I'm gonna close up with the study - construction because it's been heard. A lot of mud has fallen for the construction study. I'd say something. The construction study law has been circumvented too many times. Evidently, bodies are doing well and believe that it is a law that helps to get involved and corruption. And it's justified. But we today, with the amendments that we bring to the design - construction plan, are laying down transparency rules and no longer going to delegation projects to other parties. You know that very well. We don't raise the subject of the study ratings, because that's where the whole game was going. At the study score. We say, "Have you got the technical specifications? Is your study consistent with the technical specifications? He's coming through. Isn't it? He's leaving." There's no ranking criterion coming in. We put a five-member committee which is not from the awarding body. We insist that the technical specifications must be fully complied with. All these issues are making a construction study plan that can really help, because the study - construction is a flexible award system, which can help significantly in the absorption of projects. I believe that this bill is a very important bill which is not simply in line with the directives. They are national choices which, the next day, will be able to give our country what it needs: the end of complexity and corruption, the fight against bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr Santorinios, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. I have the honour to inform the House that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of the Greek Parliament 'to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II' (FEC 51/A I/10.4.1997)'. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. We are ending with the parliamentary representatives and then entering the vote if you have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. We, Mr President and Minister, are not going to throw the ball at the platform, as the Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy and of PASOK have done, for example. What can they say? You voted together. They agree. European Directives. Only you're here now and you get the bread. You're stealing their job on the substance. In this respect, of course, we agree that this bill we are debating today is part of the overall strategy that I am reverent in defending and trying to implement. What is this specific strategy? The Minister has been mentioned in detail. We will simply explain, if you allow us, Minister, your strategy. At the heart of this strategy is the interest in capital. It is the need for the capitalist recovery of the economy. In this respect, this is the core and philosophy of your strategy. So in this altar of capitalist recovery, on the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability you sacrifice labour rights, you sacrifice the satisfaction of people's needs. So we have continued the policy implemented by the previous governments and by the current government with some individual differences to recognise. These individual differences do not concern the state of the working class, they do not concern the conditions experienced by the people's family. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that you are continuing this same policy and from the difficulty in which the other parties to the opposition are voting and voting in favour of these bills, such as those which incorporate European directives into Greek law. What are the two specific directives that we incorporate today? They are trying to remove the obstacles that exist in the European market as a whole, the plurality that existed and the different state rules in relation to public procurement. Why are we doing this? Because it's too big a pie. That's too big a pie. Based on the Commission's study for 2011, five years ago, the public procurement pie at European Union level was in 19% of GDP. A very large part, to leave it uncontrollable or in the moods and arrangements of each Member State. The multinationals want to put their hands on this, too, which are now working at European Union level. How could they put a hand in this piece? Only when public procurement rules are consolidated throughout the European Union as a whole. Only if there is unification of the market. The unification of the market, as do the directives themselves in their preamble, note what is the focus? To satisfy the four freedoms laid down in the Maastricht Treaty, freedom of movement for capital, freedom of movement for goods, services and workers. That's what's happening now. Freedom of movement for goods and services is precisely for multinationals to be able to transfer and participate in any competitive procedure, any public access, without considering the registered office of each company. So they should be able to participate everywhere. From this point of view, in this way, individual markets are opening up to the needs of multinationals. They open up the individual markets, so that they can just participate in the tenders, but at the same time apply a number of other directives, such as the freedom of movement of persons with this Bolkenstein directive, which will be implemented in the next period both through public procurement and public works. That is why I am saying - and it is no accident - that these two directives by the Commission itself, by the European Union itself, are part of the logic of implementing the reactionary, anti-grassroots and anti-grassroots strategy 'Europe 2020'. But here comes a question: Why is it so much itching for public procurement? Because, in essence, public procurement is nothing more than another form, which the urban state has in its hands, to support business groups. This is a direct state support for business groups through public procurement, public procurement and a field that, because of the choices of the urban state, does not only ensure but also shields the profitability of business groups. Just because it's a big deal, it's a great deal of competition and in crisis conditions, even less being the cigarette, the big ones, who see losing, gaining ground, gaining access to them even to the smaller ones. Therefore, the Directives regulate uniform rules on public procurement, public procurement, a single regime and a single market. Where will these three elements lead? To concentrate and control public procurement and public procurement by multinationals. The Minister said so. He couldn't do any different, anyway. It is something that cannot be disputed, that there will be economies of scale through this process. Hey, what benefit do economies benefit? The multinational companies, the large business groups. They're good for them. That is why there will be even greater concentration on the market. That is why dozens and hundreds of thousands of small and micro-enterprises will be excluded from this process. In addition, Mr Stathakis responded to the JRC's criticism of its criticism that, on the basis of the European definition, a small and medium-sized enterprise is considered to have over two hundred and fifty employees up to five hundred. For the sizes of Greece you understand that we are talking about very large businesses, which some sectors of the economy are monopolising them. Now all the rest you and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman have said about the various programmes which they give to very small, family-run, very small businesses, and the previous ones have done so. The TEMPUS, youth entrepreneurship, the EIB now yours, these various programmes, what do they do? They are actually trying to cover up unemployment, trying to give some incentives and some way out, which is temporary and most of these small enterprises in youth entrepreneurship have been closed by 90%. Those who participated in these projects not only lost their data, but also remained borrowed to business groups. So the Minister rightly said that, through this process, the market will concentrate on less and less hands, but at this meeting you are also trying to shape flexibility conditions. In other words, economies of scale said the Minister and partitioning. This brings together the market, and then multinationals have the opportunity to give contractors to those who will have been excluded from the competitions. To make public procurement, public procurement, public procurement, smaller contractors. So smaller companies in size will operate on a satellite and complementary basis to the multinationals, maintaining what for the benefit of multinationals? The possibility of even more compressing costs, the possibility for multinationals to have much more flexibility and more specialisation, which gives a small business a certain number of issues. So all this, and the fragmentation and satellite operation, the contraction of small businesses will work for the benefit of the large multinationals, but also the flexibility that you put into the forms of procedures at least seven forms of public contract. Where there was a lot of discussion is on the construction case. He tried to make the situation look good, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. I will just say to Mr. Spirtz himself what he had answered when the case of Thessaloniki Metro was being discussed, the briefing he had made. On substance the study process - manufacturing always works for the benefit of what the project has undertaken, because it has no final study and can through the complementary studies further increase the cost of the project and claim much more. This was done with the Metro of Thessaloniki, Minister. It's yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u239	I'll tell you in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u240	Yeah, I'm telling you it's yours. In substance, this was the case with the study - construction. Secondly, in the study - we are suing large projects, so this is where the minimum construction companies are made available and, of course, the designers are under construction companies. So these are the issues through this process. So when it comes to invoking transparency and dealing with waste - we do not question the intentions of the ministers here that they want this - we say very clearly that it will have a very small effect. It will have very little effect on the one hand because there is this diversity, on the other hand the seven types of public service, which, through these sevens, everyone can choose what is best suited to it, so it has a greater benefit. Secondly, in relation to the concentration and monopolies of the market, the same ones who are involved in defining the rules and retrospectively the State itself can validate them. Finally, it is the same system, Mr Ministers, who are giving birth to waste, corruption, scandals. They go through his own DNA. From this point of view - and I conclude, Mr President - it is also this sector, for example, which, where it is confirmed, is the superpower of the JRC's proposal for a people's economy and society, for socialism. I'll just put two sides to the project issue. What are the priority criteria, today, Minister? Priority criteria are that they serve the needs of large capital. I would remind you that the position of the JRC in the debate on the concession roads was that here they are private roads, that they are done in order to meet the needs of construction groups and of large capital and that people's needs are met. What would be the priority of the different, which meets the people's needs? For example, rail and rail network development. They had then made a provision, Minister, which, as the situation goes, will be confirmed, that the Patras - Athens rail network, PATHE, will be completed at least ten years after the completion of the roads, so that the construction groups can use tolls and make much more money. So what are our priority criteria? Firstly, major projects will contribute to the development that will focus on satisfying people's needs. Secondly, improving the position of the people's family. In other words, a response to its transport needs. Thirdly, respect for the environment. And fourthly, to shape economic conditions and not to break down. Which of these four criteria implement your own plans - not the plans of the government, but the plans of the capitalist system and the priorities of the capitalist system? None of these fours. Secondly, how are these projects going to be done? We say very clearly that both the study, construction and maintenance of these major construction projects must be the responsibility of the State, with a state building body, which respects the scientific level of engineers, but also the workers themselves, and does not try to dismantle them with the various blocks of service, with the various one-day contracts and the dangerous and unhealthy situation of the whole. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that in the strategic issues we disagree with this draft law, which is why we will vote against it in principle and on articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u241	Thank you Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. If I am not mistaken, the Parliamentary Representatives are over, there is no dentistry from any special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order on a very serious matter, for seconds, before entering the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u243	Of course, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I apologise for the speech before the vote was completed, but I think it is very serious and moral. Mr Spirtz just before made a reference to the New Democracy and especially to the President of the New Democracy. We invite him to go up to the Step and name what he implyes, who he implyes and what he has to do with the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u245	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u246	Don't let this thing go unanswered, because he said something cloudy and a charge that's in the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u247	That's right. Minister, I think that Mr Brutsi's question is reasonable. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u248	When New Democracy is named, we will also be named. Until then, there are words in the air, generally and vaguely. Once he named, we will also name whatever he wants whenever he wants, whenever he wants, whether in the House or outside the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u249	It's an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u250	Essentially no response was given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u251	Well, we shall proceed to the vote. As you know, it's 380 articles. I propose a way of grouping, which is this: After voting at first, grouping and voting on articles from 1 to where there is no amendment. Let me tell you my suggestion. Then to vote on one - one that is amended and is about ten and to continue in this way. It's about twelve votes. They're not many. I say this because the Rules of Procedure say that we should vote on each article separately. We said to do tens, then twenty and then we ended up with this proposal. In other words, the first vote is from 1 to 52 as it stands. That's where we're located.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u252	Up to 52?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u253	Up to 52. I'll tell you in detail. After 53 alone, which is modified, 54 alone, after 55 to 75, and we continue this way. There will be twelve votes and we will be done and I think we are in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism is adjourned: ‘Public contracts for works, supplies and services (adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU)’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u254	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u257	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u258	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u260	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u262	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Public works, supplies and services contracts (adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU)’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution by means of the procedure we have just said. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u263	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u266	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u267	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u269	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u271	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u273	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u274	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u276	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u278	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u279	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u280	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u281	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u282	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u284	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u285	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u287	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u289	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u290	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u291	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u298	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u299	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u300	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u303	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u305	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u307	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u308	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u309	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u311	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u312	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u316	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u317	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u318	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u320	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u321	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u323	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u324	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u325	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u326	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u327	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u328	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u329	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u330	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u332	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u334	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u335	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u336	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u338	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u339	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u341	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u343	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u345	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u347	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u348	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u350	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u352	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u353	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u354	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u356	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u357	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u359	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u361	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u362	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u363	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u364	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u365	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u366	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u368	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u370	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u371	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u372	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u374	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u375	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u377	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u378	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u379	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u380	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u384	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u388	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u389	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u390	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u392	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u397	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u398	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u401	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u406	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u407	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u410	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u413	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u415	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u416	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u424	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u425	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u433	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u442	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u451	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u453	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u455	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u460	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u469	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u471	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u473	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u478	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u487	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u488	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u496	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u505	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u509	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u514	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u518	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u519	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u523	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u527	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u532	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u541	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u550	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u551	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u554	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u559	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u564	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u566	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u568	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u572	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u577	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u586	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u591	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u595	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u600	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u604	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u605	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u608	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u609	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u613	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u618	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u622	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u627	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u631	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u640	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u644	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u649	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u654	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u658	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u659	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u667	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u672	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u676	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u683	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u684	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u685	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u686	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u687	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u689	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u692	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u693	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u694	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u696	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u698	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u699	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u701	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u702	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u703	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u704	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u710	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u712	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u717	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u719	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u721	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u722	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u728	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u729	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u730	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u731	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u735	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u736	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u737	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u739	Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u740	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u741	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u743	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u744	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u746	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u747	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u748	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u749	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u752	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u755	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u756	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u757	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u758	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u759	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u761	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u762	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u764	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u765	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u766	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u768	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u770	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u773	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u774	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u775	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u777	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u779	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u782	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u783	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u784	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u786	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u788	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u789	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u791	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u792	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u793	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u795	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u797	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u798	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u800	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u801	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u802	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u803	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u804	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u806	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u809	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u810	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u811	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u812	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u813	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u814	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u815	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u816	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u818	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u819	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u820	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u821	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u822	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u824	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u825	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u826	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u827	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u828	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u829	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u830	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u831	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u833	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u836	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u837	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u838	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u839	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u840	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u842	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u845	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u846	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u847	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u848	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u852	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u854	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u855	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u856	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u857	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u858	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u860	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u862	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u863	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u864	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u865	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u866	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u867	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u869	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u870	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u872	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u873	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u874	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u875	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u876	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u878	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u881	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u882	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u883	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u884	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u885	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u887	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u888	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u890	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u892	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u893	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u899	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u900	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u901	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u902	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u903	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u905	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u906	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u908	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u909	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u910	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u911	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u912	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u914	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u915	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u917	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u918	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u919	Article 73 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u920	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u921	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u923	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u924	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u926	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u927	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u928	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u929	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u930	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u933	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u935	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u937	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 76 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u938	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u941	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u944	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u946	Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u947	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u948	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u952	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u953	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u954	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u955	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u956	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u957	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u959	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u960	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u961	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u962	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u963	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u964	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u965	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u966	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u968	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u969	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u970	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u971	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u972	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u973	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u974	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u975	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u977	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u979	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u980	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u981	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u982	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u983	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u984	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u986	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u988	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u989	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u990	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u991	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u992	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u993	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u994	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u995	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u997	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u998	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u999	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1000	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1001	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1002	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1005	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1007	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1008	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1009	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1010	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1011	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1013	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1015	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1016	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1017	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1018	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1019	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1020	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1022	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1024	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1025	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1026	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1027	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1028	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1029	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1031	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1032	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1033	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1034	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1035	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1036	Article 86 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1037	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1038	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1040	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1041	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1042	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1043	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1044	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1045	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1046	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1047	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1049	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1050	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1051	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1052	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1053	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1054	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1055	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1056	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1058	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1060	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1061	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1062	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1063	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1064	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1065	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1066	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1067	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1068	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1069	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1070	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1071	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1072	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1073	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1074	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1076	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1078	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1079	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1080	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1081	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1082	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1083	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1084	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1086	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1088	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1089	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1090	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1091	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1092	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1094	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1095	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1096	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1097	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1098	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1099	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1100	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1101	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1104	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1106	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1107	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1108	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1109	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1110	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1111	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1113	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1115	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1116	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1117	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1118	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1119	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1120	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1121	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1122	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1123	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1124	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1125	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1126	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1127	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1128	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1129	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1130	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1131	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1132	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1133	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1134	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1135	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1136	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1137	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1141	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1142	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1143	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1144	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1145	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1146	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1148	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1150	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1151	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1152	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1153	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1154	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1155	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1157	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1159	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1160	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1161	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1162	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1163	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1164	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1165	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1166	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1167	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1168	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1169	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1170	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1171	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1172	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1173	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1175	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1177	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1178	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1179	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1180	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1181	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1182	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1183	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1184	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1185	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1186	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1187	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1188	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1189	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1190	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1191	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1192	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1193	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1194	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1196	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1197	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1198	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1199	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1200	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1202	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1205	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1206	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1207	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1208	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1214	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1215	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1216	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1217	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1218	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1220	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1221	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1223	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1224	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1225	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1226	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1227	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1229	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1230	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1233	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1234	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1235	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1236	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1238	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1241	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1242	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1243	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1244	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1245	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1247	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1251	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1252	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1253	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1254	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1260	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1261	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1262	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1263	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1264	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1269	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1270	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1271	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1274	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1278	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1279	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1281	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1283	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1287	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1288	Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 115 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1289	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1290	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1292	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1297	Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1298	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1299	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1305	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1306	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1308	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1309	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1311	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1315	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1316	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1317	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1318	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1320	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1323	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1324	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1325	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1326	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1328	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1332	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1333	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1334	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1335	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1336	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1337	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1338	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1341	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1342	Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 121 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1343	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1346	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1347	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1350	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1351	Article 121 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1353	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1355	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1356	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1359	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1360	Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1361	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1362	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1363	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1364	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1365	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1368	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1369	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1370	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1371	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1373	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1374	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1375	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1377	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1378	Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 125 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1379	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1380	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1381	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1382	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1383	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1387	Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1388	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1389	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1390	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1391	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1392	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1396	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1397	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1398	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1399	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1400	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1405	Article 127 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1413	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1414	Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1416	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1418	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1423	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1425	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1432	Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1441	Article 131 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1446	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1450	Article 132 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1459	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 134 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1462	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1468	Article 134 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 135 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1477	Article 135 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 136 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1483	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1486	Article 136 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 137 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1488	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1495	Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 138 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1504	Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 139 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1513	Article 139 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 140 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1517	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1518	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1522	Article 140 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 141 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1526	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1531	Article 141 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 142 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1540	Article 142 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 143 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1549	Article 143 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 144 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1551	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1554	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1558	Article 144 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 145 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1566	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1567	Article 145 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 146 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1576	Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 147 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1585	Article 147 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 148 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1594	Article 148 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 149 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1603	Article 149 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 150 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1605	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1612	Article 150 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 151, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1621	Article 151 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 152 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1626	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1630	Article 152 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 153 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1639	Article 153 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 154 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1644	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1648	Article 154 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 155 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1657	Article 155 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 156 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1666	Article 156 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 157 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1667	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1675	Article 157 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 158 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1679	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1683	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1684	Article 158 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 159 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1685	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1686	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1688	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1692	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1693	Article 159 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 160 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1696	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1697	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1701	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1702	Article 160 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 161 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1704	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1706	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1710	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1711	Article 161 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 162 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1716	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1719	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1720	Article 162 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 163 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1722	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1724	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1728	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1729	Article 163 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 164 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1730	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1731	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1733	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1737	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1738	Article 164 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 165 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1739	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1740	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1741	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1742	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1744	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1746	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1747	Article 165 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 166 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1749	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1750	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1751	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1753	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1755	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1756	Article 166 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 167 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1757	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1758	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1759	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1760	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1764	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1765	Article 167 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 168 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1766	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1769	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1771	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1773	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1774	Article 168 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 169 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1775	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1778	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1780	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1782	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1783	Article 169 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 170 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1784	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1787	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1788	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1789	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1791	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1792	Article 170 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 171 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1793	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1796	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1797	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1800	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1801	Article 171 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 172 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1802	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1803	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1805	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1807	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1809	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1810	Article 172 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 173 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1811	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1812	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1814	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1816	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1818	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1819	Article 173 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 174 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1820	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1821	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1823	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1825	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1826	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1827	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1828	Article 174 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 175 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1829	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1830	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1832	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1834	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1836	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1837	Article 175 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 176 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1838	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1839	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1841	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1843	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1845	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1846	Article 176 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 177 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1847	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1848	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1850	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1852	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1854	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1855	Article 177 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 178 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1856	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1857	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1859	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1861	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1862	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1863	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1864	Article 178 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 179 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1865	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1866	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1872	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1873	Article 179 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 180 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1874	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1875	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1877	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1879	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1881	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1882	Article 180 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 181 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1883	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1884	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1887	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1888	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1890	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1891	Article 181 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 182 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1892	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1893	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1894	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1895	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1899	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1900	Article 182 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 183 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1901	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1902	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1904	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1905	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1906	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1908	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1909	Article 183 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 184 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1910	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1911	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1912	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1913	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1914	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1915	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1917	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1918	Article 184 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 185 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1919	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1920	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1922	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1923	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1924	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1926	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1927	Article 185 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 186 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1928	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1929	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1930	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1931	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1932	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1933	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1934	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1935	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1936	Article 186 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 187 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1937	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1938	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1940	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1941	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1942	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1943	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1944	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1945	Article 187 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 188 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1946	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1947	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1949	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1951	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1952	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1953	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1954	Article 188 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 189 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1955	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1956	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1958	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1959	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1960	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1961	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1962	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1963	Article 189 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 190 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1964	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1965	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1967	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1969	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1970	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1971	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1972	Article 190 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 191 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1973	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1974	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1976	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1977	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1978	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1979	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1980	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1981	Article 191 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 192 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1982	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1983	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1984	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1985	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1986	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1987	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1988	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1989	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1990	Article 192 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 193 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1991	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1992	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1994	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1995	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1996	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1997	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1998	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u1999	Article 193 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 194 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2000	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2001	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2002	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2003	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2004	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2005	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2006	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2007	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2008	Article 194 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 195 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2009	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2010	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2012	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2013	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2014	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2015	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2016	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2017	Article 195 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 196 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2018	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2019	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2020	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2022	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2024	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2025	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2026	Article 196 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 197 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2027	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2028	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2029	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2031	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2032	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2033	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2034	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2035	Article 197 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 198 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2036	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2037	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2039	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2040	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2041	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2042	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2043	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2044	Article 198 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 199 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2045	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2046	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2048	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2049	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2050	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2051	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2052	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2053	Article 199 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 200 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2054	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2055	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2057	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2058	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2059	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2060	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2061	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2062	Article 200 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 201 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2063	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2064	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2065	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2066	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2067	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2068	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2069	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2070	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2071	Article 201 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 202 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2072	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2073	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2074	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2075	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2076	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2077	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2078	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2079	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2080	Article 202 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 203 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2081	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2082	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2084	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2085	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2086	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2087	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2088	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2089	Article 203 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 204 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2090	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2091	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2092	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2093	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2094	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2095	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2096	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2097	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2098	Article 204 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 205 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2099	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2100	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2102	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2104	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2105	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2106	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2107	Article 205 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 206 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2108	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2109	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2110	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2111	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2112	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2113	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2114	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2115	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2116	Article 206 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 207 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2117	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2118	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2120	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2121	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2122	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2123	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2124	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2125	Article 207 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 208 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2126	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2127	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2129	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2131	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2132	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2133	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2134	Article 208 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 209 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2135	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2136	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2137	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2138	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2139	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2140	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2141	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2142	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2143	Article 209 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 210 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2144	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2145	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2147	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2149	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2150	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2151	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2152	Article 210 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 211 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2153	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2154	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2155	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2156	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2158	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2159	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2160	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2161	Article 211 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 212 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2162	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2163	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2165	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2167	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2168	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2169	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2170	Article 212 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 213 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2171	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2172	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2174	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2176	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2177	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2178	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2179	Article 213 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 214 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2180	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2181	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2183	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2185	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2186	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2187	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2188	Article 214 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 215 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2189	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2190	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2192	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2193	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2194	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2196	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2197	Article 215 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 216 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2198	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2199	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2201	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2203	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2205	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2206	Article 216 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 217 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2207	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2208	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2210	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2212	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2214	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2215	Article 217 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 218 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2217	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2219	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2221	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2223	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2224	Article 218 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 219 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2226	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2230	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2233	Article 219 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 220 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2234	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2235	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2237	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2239	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2241	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2242	Article 220 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 221 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2243	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2244	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2246	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2248	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2251	Article 221 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 222 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2253	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2257	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2260	Article 222 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 223 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2262	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2266	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2269	Article 223 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 224 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2271	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2273	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2275	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2278	Article 224 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 225 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2279	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2282	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2284	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2287	Article 225 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 226 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2289	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2291	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2293	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2296	Article 226 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 227 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2298	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2300	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2305	Article 227 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 228 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2309	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2311	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2314	Article 228 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 229 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2316	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2317	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2318	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2320	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2321	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2323	Article 229 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 230 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2324	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2325	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2326	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2327	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2328	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2329	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2332	Article 230 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 231 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2334	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2335	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2336	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2338	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2341	Article 231 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 232 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2343	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2344	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2345	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2347	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2350	Article 232 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 233 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2353	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2354	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2356	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2359	Article 233 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 234 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2361	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2363	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2364	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2365	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2368	Article 234 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 235 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2370	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2372	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2374	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2375	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2377	Article 235 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 236 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2378	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2379	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2386	Article 236 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 237 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2388	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2390	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2392	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2395	Article 237 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 238 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2397	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2401	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2404	Article 238 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 239 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2410	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2413	Article 239 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 240 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2422	Article 240 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 241 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2428	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2431	Article 241 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 242 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2440	Article 242 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 243 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2449	Article 243 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 244 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2453	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2455	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2458	Article 244 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 245 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2467	Article 245 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 246 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2470	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2471	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2473	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2476	Article 246 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 247 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2485	Article 247 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 248 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2494	Article 248 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 249 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2503	Article 249 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 250 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2509	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2512	Article 250 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 251 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2518	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2521	Article 251 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 252 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2527	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2530	Article 252 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 253 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2539	Article 253 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 254 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2545	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2548	Article 254 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 255 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2554	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2557	Article 255 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 256 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2562	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2563	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2566	Article 256 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 257 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2572	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2575	Article 257 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 258, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2581	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2584	Article 258 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote. Will Rule 259 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2593	Article 259 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 260 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2598	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2602	Article 260 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 261 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2608	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2611	Article 261 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 262 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2620	Article 262 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 263 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2625	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2629	Article 263 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 264 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2638	Article 264 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 265 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2641	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2644	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2647	Article 265 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 266 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2656	Article 266 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 267 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2665	Article 267 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 268 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2667	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2668	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2674	Article 268 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 269 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2677	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2683	Article 269 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 270 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2684	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2685	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2687	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2689	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2692	Article 270 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 271 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2693	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2696	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2697	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2698	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2701	Article 271 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 272 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2702	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2707	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2710	Article 272 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 273 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2716	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2719	Article 273 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 274 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2728	Article 274 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 275 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2729	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2730	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2731	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2732	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2734	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2737	Article 275 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 276 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2738	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2739	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2740	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2741	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2743	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2744	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2746	Article 276 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 277 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2747	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2752	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2753	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2755	Article 277 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 278 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2756	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2757	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2759	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2760	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2761	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2764	Article 278 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 279 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2765	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2766	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2768	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2770	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2771	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2773	Article 279 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 280 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2774	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2775	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2777	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2779	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2780	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2782	Article 280 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 281 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2783	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2784	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2786	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2787	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2788	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2789	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2791	Article 281 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 282 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2792	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2793	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2795	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2797	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2800	Article 282 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 283 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2801	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2802	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2804	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2806	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2807	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2809	Article 283 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 284 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2810	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2811	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2813	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2814	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2815	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2816	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2818	Article 284 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 285 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2819	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2820	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2821	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2822	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2824	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2825	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2826	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2827	Article 285 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 286 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2828	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2829	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2830	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2831	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2833	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2834	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2836	Article 286 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 287 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2837	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2838	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2839	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2840	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2842	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2843	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2845	Article 287 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 288 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2846	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2847	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2849	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2851	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2852	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2854	Article 288 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 289 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2855	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2856	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2858	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2860	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2861	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2862	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2863	Article 289 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 290 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2864	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2865	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2866	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2867	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2869	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2870	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2872	Article 290 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 291 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2873	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2874	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2876	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2878	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2879	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2881	Article 291 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 292 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2882	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2883	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2884	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2885	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2887	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2888	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2890	Article 292 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 293 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2892	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2896	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2899	Article 293 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 294 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2900	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2901	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2903	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2905	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2906	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2908	Article 294 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 295 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2909	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2910	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2911	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2912	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2914	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2915	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2917	Article 295 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 296 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2918	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2919	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2921	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2923	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2924	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2926	Article 296 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 297 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2927	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2928	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2930	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2932	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2933	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2934	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2935	Article 297 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 298 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2937	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2938	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2939	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2941	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2942	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2943	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2944	Article 298 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 299 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2945	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2946	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2947	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2948	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2950	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2951	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2952	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2953	Article 299 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 300 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2954	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2955	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2956	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2957	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2959	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2960	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2961	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2962	Article 300 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 301 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2963	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2964	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2965	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2966	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2968	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2969	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2970	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2971	Article 301 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 302 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2972	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2973	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2975	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2977	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2978	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2979	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2980	Article 302 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 303 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2981	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2982	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2983	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2984	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2985	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2986	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2987	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2988	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2989	Article 303 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 304 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2990	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2991	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2992	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2993	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2995	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2996	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2997	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2998	Article 304 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 305 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u2999	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3000	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3001	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3002	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3004	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3005	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3006	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3007	Article 305 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 306 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3008	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3009	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3011	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3013	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3014	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3015	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3016	Article 306 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 307 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3017	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3018	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3019	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3020	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3022	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3023	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3024	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3025	Article 307 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 308 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3026	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3027	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3028	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3029	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3031	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3032	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3033	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3034	Article 308 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 309 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3035	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3036	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3038	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3040	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3041	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3042	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3043	Article 309 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 310 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3044	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3045	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3046	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3047	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3049	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3050	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3051	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3052	Article 310 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 311 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3053	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3054	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3055	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3056	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3057	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3058	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3059	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3060	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3061	Article 311 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 312 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3062	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3063	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3064	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3065	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3066	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3067	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3068	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3069	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3070	Article 312 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 313 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3071	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3072	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3074	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3076	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3077	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3078	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3079	Article 313 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 314 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3080	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3081	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3082	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3083	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3084	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3085	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3086	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3087	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3088	Article 314 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 315 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3089	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3090	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3092	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3093	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3094	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3095	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3096	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3097	Article 315 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 316 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3098	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3099	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3100	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3101	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3103	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3104	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3105	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3106	Article 316 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 317 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3107	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3108	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3110	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3111	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3112	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3113	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3114	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3115	Article 317 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 318 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3116	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3117	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3119	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3120	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3121	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3122	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3123	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3124	Article 318 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 319 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3125	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3126	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3128	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3129	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3130	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3131	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3132	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3133	Article 319 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 320 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3134	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3135	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3136	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3137	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3139	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3140	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3141	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3142	Article 320 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 321 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3143	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3144	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3146	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3148	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3149	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3150	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3151	Article 321 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 322 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3152	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3153	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3155	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3157	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3158	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3159	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3160	Article 322 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 323 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3161	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3162	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3164	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3165	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3166	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3167	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3168	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3169	Article 323 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 324 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3170	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3171	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3173	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3175	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3176	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3177	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3178	Article 324 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 325 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3179	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3180	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3182	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3183	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3184	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3185	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3186	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3187	Article 325 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 326 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3188	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3189	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3190	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3192	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3194	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3196	Article 326 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 327 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3197	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3198	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3199	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3203	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3205	Article 327 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 328 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3206	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3207	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3208	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3212	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3214	Article 328 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 329 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3215	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3218	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3219	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3220	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3221	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3223	Article 329 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 330 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3224	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3227	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3228	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3229	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3230	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3232	Article 330 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 331 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3233	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3234	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3235	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3236	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3238	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3239	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3241	Article 331 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 332 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3242	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3243	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3245	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3246	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3247	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3248	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3250	Article 332 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 333 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3251	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3254	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3257	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3259	Article 333 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 334 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3260	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3263	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3264	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3266	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3268	Article 334 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 335 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3269	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3271	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3274	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3275	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3277	Article 335 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 336 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3278	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3279	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3280	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3281	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3283	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3284	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3286	Article 336 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 337 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3287	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3289	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3290	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3292	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3293	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3295	Article 337 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 338 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3299	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3304	Article 338 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 339 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3305	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3307	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3308	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3309	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3310	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3311	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3313	Article 339 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 340 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3316	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3317	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3318	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3319	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3320	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3321	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3322	Article 340 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 341 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3323	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3324	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3325	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3326	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3328	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3329	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3331	Article 341 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 342 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3332	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3334	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3335	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3336	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3337	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3338	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3340	Article 342 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 343 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3341	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3343	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3346	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3347	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3349	Article 343 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 344 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3350	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3352	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3353	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3355	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3356	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3358	Article 344 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 345 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3359	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3361	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3363	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3364	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3365	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3366	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3367	Article 345 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 346 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3368	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3373	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3374	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3375	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3376	Article 346 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 347 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3377	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3378	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3381	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3382	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3384	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3385	Article 347 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 348 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3388	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3390	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3391	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3392	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3394	Article 348 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 349 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3399	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3400	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3401	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3403	Article 349 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 350 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3409	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3410	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3412	Article 350 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 351 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3413	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3418	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3421	Article 351 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 352 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3428	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3430	Article 352 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 353 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3439	Article 353 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 354 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3448	Article 354 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 355 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3455	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3457	Article 355 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 356 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3462	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3463	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3466	Article 356 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 357 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3470	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3473	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3475	Article 357 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 358 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3481	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3484	Article 358 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 359 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3493	Article 359 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 360 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3499	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3502	Article 360 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 361 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3509	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3511	Article 361 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 362 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3517	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3518	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3519	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3520	Article 362 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 363 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3527	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3529	Article 363 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 364 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3538	Article 364 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 365 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3545	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3547	Article 365 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 366 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3554	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3556	Article 366 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 367 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3563	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3564	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3565	Article 367 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 368 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3566	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3569	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3572	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3574	Article 368 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 369 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3581	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3583	Article 369 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 370 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3591	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3592	Article 370 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 371 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3600	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3601	Article 371 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 372 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3608	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3610	Article 372 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 373 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3619	Article 373 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 374 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3622	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3628	Article 374 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 375 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3637	Article 375 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 376, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3644	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3646	Article 376 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 377 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3649	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3655	Article 377 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 378 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3658	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3664	Article 378 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3667	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3673	The office of departure was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Public Works, Supply and Services Contracts (adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU)’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3679	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3682	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Public Works, Procurement and Services Contracts (adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU)’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3683	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3684	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-02-S1-commons.u3685	With the agreement of the House at 17.06 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 3 August 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work on the agenda and the special agenda that has been distributed.
