ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 28-7-2016 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 28 July 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Bureau of the ROA, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Consolidation of the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes in Cyber and its Additional Protocol, on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, committed through Computing Systems — Transposition to Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks against information systems and the replacement of Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA, Confidential and Anti-criminal Policy Arrangements and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, eleven topical questions will be discussed. We begin with the third with number 1158/19-7-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the delays in paying the contractors to the Ministry of Culture and Sport. The current question will be answered by Minister Aristides Baltas. The time for the MPs is two minutes for the protology and three minutes for the denology and the ministers three minutes for the protology and also three minutes for the denology. I also remind you of the timeliness. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. In recent years there has been an excessive delay in the payment of workers employed since April each year by a fixed-term contract in the museums and archaeological sites of the country, with various specialties, such as archaeological guards, night guards, cleaners and other specialties. A similar situation also prevails for those working on ESDP projects. These workers cover the large gaps that exist, both in the preservation and cleanliness of archaeological sites and museums throughout the country. Especially this year, pay delays in some cases exceed all three months. The money, however, is committed, because these people entered through ASP. For example, at the Department of Antiquities of Athens - and in other places - the payroll of May has not yet been paid, with a delay of at least three months. A few days ago, we know that the April wage was paid. But there is another matter. Workers have not been paid in April in all the Services. For example, in Piraeus - probably in other parts of the country - April has not been paid. But it is not just the non-payment of regular payroll. They are also unpaid for the exceptional and holidays. They are paid through the Archaeological Resources Fund. The workers there don't just work for a five-day. They work extra Saturdays, Sundays, holidays. Why is their payment delayed? The same situation, of course, prevails in archaeologists with postgraduate and doctoral titles, at the Management Department of National Archives of Monuments, Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods. And there is a systematic delay in paying payroll. So there is a serious problem of these people's survival, and too many of them no longer have the opportunity to cover even the costs of moving them to work. Many applications of antiquities, as workers themselves denounce, are currently resorting to imposing compulsory permits, often unpaid, to the detriment of workers and the very archaeological research, and they are threatening even with closure of work and redundancies. At the same time, workers denounce intensification of work, circumventing their time and other rights, denounce terrorism to anyone who dares to raise head and claim rights. Therefore, Minister, we ask you: What measures will you take to immediately repay the seasonal workers - those who are via the NRP - to the National Archive Management Directorate, to stop these delays in paying payroll and to have a fixed payroll over the first three days of each month? We also call for all workers' rights to be guaranteed - licences for normal, licensed sick leave, etc. - the social benefits programmes, as well as their wage equation with the rest of the workers. Finally, we are calling for permanent and adequate staff to be recruited to serve all the Services of the Ministry of Culture, as well as the museums and archaeological sites throughout the country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u4	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President, and you, Mr Synonymakis, for the timely question, for two reasons: Firstly, because you are giving me the opportunity to say that all the officials of the Ministry of Culture, with any relationship of work and any specialty, are slowly being raised as experts, who support everything concerning cultural heritage and start and become known internationally at all levels of work they do. From the one who is digging for the first time to find the find, from the one who first processes this finding, from the one who maintains it, to the archaeologist, finally, who studies it and the people of the museum who eventually expose it. It is an extremely important staff for the whole country. Its potential, the know-how it has accumulated and everything it does in connection with the protection of the heritage has begun and become internationally known. In this sense, it is extremely important - and this is obviously the second reason why I would like to thank you - this staff, like all the staff, of course, who work in the country, to take care of it, for those who have the relative responsibility, as an eye daughter at all levels that you are asking for. From there on, you know as well as me that over the years there has been a problem of availability, redundancies, lack of staff and so on. In this situation, too, and given the commitments we have, we are trying to meet. In relation to payments, I should like to tell you the procedure under which they are being carried out, the responsibility of the Ministry in this procedure, and some things that we cannot run as quickly as possible. At the end of each month, the first statements to be paid to the central services of the Ministry, from there they go to the Office of Financial Control and are paid by the Single Payments Authority. In other words, there are three or four stages in this process, and our responsibility is to speed up as quickly as possible in the first stage and to force the rest to move quickly. As far as we are concerned, we do everything we can to ensure that, once the situation comes - sometimes on the same day - they go for the furthers to the Single Payments Authority. That's what we do as much as we can. We can't do any more. In particular, in previous period NSRP projects there is absolutely no loose end in relation to payments. The NRPs of the new period are not ours again not the concept of what is being delayed and when the process of integrating new staff into them begins. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] For the rest of the time you said, I'll answer the second, because it's over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I understand your need as a government minister to expose the work of all the officials of the Ministry of Culture with what you have said, that they are recognised internationally, that they are experienced, that they are made known and that we need to look after the staff. The difference is that "in words you build upper and lower". In practice, however, how will chronic demands be met? Because if we really want to protect the cultural heritage, if we want to preserve it, use it, it means having sufficient staff, with permanent and stable work, well paid, with full insurance and pension rights. Workers do not care if your Government is committed to the European Union, to the memoranda, to the partners and others. You came as a government to satisfy people's needs. That's what you were saying. 'The hope is coming'. And, indeed, we heard the Prime Minister, 'fair growth','recovering the social state'. Where's the social state? There are shortages of staff. The workers are unpaid. You're going to pay them the prizes? But now as a whole. They can't wait. So people have been paying off for three months and you tell us that these delays are the fault of the Single Payments Authority? And here, of course, there is a matter. This is a technical problem, but it also has political dimensions. So solve it. If the delays appear there, solve. However, we hear things like 'the workers will not prove us what we will do to the Single Payments Authority'. That's what it sounds like. Let this whole story stop. In any case, workers are the victims and witnesses of this political subdelegation to the inventions of antiquities, museums, archaeological sites. These elastic working relationships, with a block, with an NRP, with two months, with five months, with twenty-four months, sixty-months, etc., all of them why? It is precisely because it opens up the way for the exploitation of cultural heritage by contractors, by large business groups and foreigners and locals, who do not want to have such an employment status. Invite the NRP. In fact, we have heard other ministers and the government as a whole saying that the ESDP is doing business. You've hired people without having guaranteed funding. Here, too, there are even greater political responsibilities. And, all right, the NSA is done and the new one's going to start. Workers ask what will happen and when it will be opened to continue the work at the Ministry of Culture. Will you take it with self-consciousness? Are you going to give it to contractors? For, without personal and brave recruitments, fate will end up with contractors. Is the problem, however, of workers' constant work, of the necessary and full funding, of a social nature, of maintaining and exploiting cultural heritage in this way? No, of course not. So here's a matter. But there's always there. You have issued a circular on June 22, 2016, that paves the way for redundancies of tens of contractors. In this respect we have tabled a question and we are waiting in writing for your reply. I do not want to go any further, because that is not the subject of the question. There are, of course, other issues. You have said that it will change the legislative framework. In what direction will the legislative framework be changed when we know the existing conditions? With the legislative framework in these existing circumstances, it is certain that cultural heritage is delivered to the large capital, traded and irreversibly reversed all the working arrangements, of course having regard to the bills that the Government will bring about from the autumn onwards. Finally, I would like to say, with a view to workers, that we must not abandon the effort to claim what they really deserve, to recover their losses, to have a permanent and stable job so that they and their families can live. This means, in practical terms, that the JRC will stand side by side, giving the battle against both your Government and the European Union, which considers the area of culture and cultural heritage as a commodity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u8	You're constantly overtime, Mr. President. Mr Balta, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u9	Mr Colleagues, while we agree on many things, we disagree on many things, as you know. I will not get into the details of our disagreement, given the few minutes at my disposal. I just want to tell you that we seem to have a very different perception of what political time means and what a society is synonymous with. The political time means that all lightning and instantly cannot be solved, as you and I would like, and complexity means that not all problems can be concentrated in a phrase of the kind'monopoly, privatisation' and so on. We will agree on the basis of this criticism, but we will fully disagree with how the problems are dealt with. In relation to privatisation, monopolies or contractors, etc. You say, in our view and in relation at least to the Ministry of Culture, there is no sign of danger that any cultural treasure in the country will pass such uncontrolled private situations. There is no sign of danger of turning into a merchandise anything that concerns the cultural treasure of the country. From that point on, I'll agree with you. Of course, workers will also claim, as far as we can, for example, that - in introductory words - 'help' their rights, stable jobs and the possibility of being paid on time for the work they do and so on. That is where we fully agree. As many times as we have meetings with the trade unions, we show them that we fully agree and do everything we can, on the basis of the complexity I have told you and of political time. On this point now, because there are really very great needs for additional staff, in all areas of the Ministry of Culture, we also do our utmost, within the given framework, to be able to gain and win such positions. In particular, then, I will give you some figures in the minimum time I have. One hundred and forty-seven permanent vacancies in the care and protection sector, forty-six permanent vacancies for night guards are in a process of filling. They've started for new permanent positions. We are also asking - because we have these needs that you have suggested - transfers of officials interested in coming to the Ministry of Culture. We want this to be possible and to come to the Ministry of Culture. It's sixty-four as far as storage is concerned, and twelve as far as the night guards are concerned. From there on, because, unfortunately, we can only do at least at a certain stage to recruit fewer men, for 2016 we have eight hundred ninety-six seats, which we are preparing to recruit, even with this short duration, because unfortunately, unfortunately, we cannot do more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 1 August 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1145/18-7-2016 topical question of the relocation of the Submarine Submarine Unit of the Republic of Athens, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1106/11-7-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health on the creation of new EKAB areas in the wider area of Crete. 3. The Question No 1044,27-2016 by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Health on the professional and work upgrade of the ‘assisted nurses’. 4. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 5. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health regarding patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEP". 6. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, asked the Minister of Health about the situation in the State General Nice. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 935/31-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. 8. Under number 1080/4-7-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health on the staffing of the EKA in Larissa Law and the creation of EKAB areas in health centres in Larissa Prefecture. 9. Under number 825/254-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics to the Minister of Health regarding the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metataxas. 10. The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme. 11. The Question No 1003/14-6-2016 by Congressman Piraios of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems of the anti-cancer hospital "Metaxas". 12. The Question No 1098/6-7-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Centroon Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, on the question of the subscribing and subscribing of the Zakynthos Hospital. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1101/7-7-2016 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Health, concerning the treatment of problems at the Hospital of Amaliada. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health regarding the immediate payment of qualified doctors from the EEA. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Health about the problems at the "Madzavinateio" Hospital in Lixouri. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Also, the Bureau has received the request from the E' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Parliament Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the President of the Parliament, in which he asks the House to approve his licence for the period from 27-8-2016 to 31-8-2016, due to his transition abroad, for the participation in the Pan-European Congress of Cardiology, to which he will be President. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP Nikolaos Dendias asks for a short-day absence abroad from 1-8-2016 to 6-8-2016 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are now moving to the tenth under number 1043/246/2016, a topical question for the second question of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the premise of tragic developments in the field of electricity production. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will answer the timely question. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I am pleased that, after three postponements, on 30 June, on 7 July and 14 July, we are discussing today my topical question on a very important subject. Because it doesn't matter sometimes what the Opposition says, but what the government itself and its officials say about certain issues, I will describe to you what PPC Commander, the president of HIDED and what you have signed on this big issue of PPC. A month and a half ago PPC President Panayotakis at his grand "Economist", stated: "The countries go bankrupt, but also from energy." This was a strong bell that something's wrong with PPC. But he didn't stop there. On June 28, he sends an open letter to all employees and writes: "It is obvious that the risk from the rapid decline in percentage from today's 91% to less than 50% at the end of 2019. In view of the undertaking’s obligations in loans and investments, the situation shall develop into a critical.’; That's what PPC President says. Furthermore, on the basis of the information we have at our disposal - and I would like the Minister to tell me if it is true - in 2014 PPC received EUR 35 million customer bills per day, on average. In 2016 she collects EUR 21 million a day only. In other words, we have a fall in the company's revenues by about 60%. And, respectively, the citizens' debts to the company in January 2015 were 1.7 billion, while today the EUR 3.1 billion is approaching. Next item, what the government has signed. Apart from the well-known memorandum we know, the government has signed two other memoranda, the technical and the complement. In the technical memorandum, dated 16 June 2016 - both memorials I have them at my disposal - on page 26, the transfer is envisaged - we have described it as a "excessive colony" - until September 2016, by special law, and by PPC and IPTO. As a result, a full sale. The program for the development of TIADED, of 26 April 2016, on page 16, provides: “Sale of 17% of PPC, if possible, within 2016. However, in the third quarter of 2016, selection from the GOD of the sales adviser of 17% of PPC." Finally, Mr Pitsirlas - the Prime Minister's personal choice - states that 17% of PPC will proceed as a process within September. The Minister answers him: "They are your personal views, Mr Pitsirla." However, in FEC 1472 of 25 May 2016, the decision of the Governing Council of Economic Policy has been published with the signature of the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, and the Minister himself, which exactly 17% validates it. Please, Minister, I would like your answers to the issues I have raised, on the basis of what people have said that have been chosen by the government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u14	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, with regard to postponements - because you say this for the fourth or fifth time in this Chamber - you know that they are justified. One concerned the presence of Mr Gabriel and the other when I was notified a few hours ago that the hours that I should have been here were changing and were outside my programme. However, the substance of these issues has been discussed twice in the last 15 days, one in committee and one in Parliament. This does not mean that we do not have the opportunity to discuss this today. Mr. Maniatis, you have spoken about the issues of PPC's outstanding debts. It is the footprint of your policy the amount of PPC's maturity and the report by PPC's CEO and president on energy bankruptcy concerns exactly how you, when ruling, personally and as government, handled energy issues. It is the result of the dismantling of an entire society, which in the last five years over the PASOK and New Democracy governments have lost 25% of gross national product. You dismantled industrial relations and small and medium-sized strata. You have booked businesses, you have increased unemployment and you are coming here to tell us that the result of this policy, which is certainly reflected in the hardship of citizens to meet PPC's obligations, is due to SYRIZA. I think it's understandable from anyone who's due. From there on, it is certainly not EUR 3.1 billion right now - and thankfully! - the outstanding liabilities to PPC. Every week, in fact, I see that some millions are being increased. I don't know how you count them and how comfortable you approach the millions, but they're not that much. On the contrary, there are positive signs when a sum of over 0.5 billion euros has now been added - and it is served - on the basis of the last regulation of thirty-six instalments without an advance. This was a move that relieved the world, but increased PPC's liquidity. From there on, our plan in the field of electricity is well known. It was known at the first moment and in the agreement that provided for exactly how to move to a new energy market. We voted together. I am referring to the percentages that PPC should have in 2020. Do you know what we did not vote together and differ? The way we get there. You're fantastic in favour of privatisation. You revealed it a moment ago. So, in the face of the policy of forced, violent privatization of public property, we say 'no'. That is why in the last law we passed we abolished the new law on "little PPC" and the adopted law on privatization of 66% of PPC and furthered another plan. As soon as the first phase of this project began, and it successfully proceeds, with four companies from Italy, France and two from China to submit tenders for the first phase of the tender, when people were prone to your own space that the competition for 24% of IPTO, in which 51% of the public is held. If this is not a political success and a green light on the road map that ensures the public character of the networks, then what is it? But it is not the policy of the violent privatization you have advocated. On the other hand, alternatively to "little PPC", where the world has stopped you and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has stopped you, we promote the power auctions through the NOME mechanism. Obviously, we have a different perception. Apparently, they're two different worlds. What can we do? People judge, evaluate and take a stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u16	Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u17	It was interesting to have the Minister's position. Indeed, we are quite different, because it is very interesting to claim to the national Parliament that it has negotiated and signed 90% of PPC's customers today, at the end of 2019, to reach 50% and when, also in the same text, it has signed as SYRIZA's government the 70% of PPC's current production, compulsory to reach 50%. All this, Madam President, in exchange for what happened? How much is the revenue? What will PPC collect? Zero! With a zero price, therefore, the government signed to reduce from 90% to 50% PPC's customer base and from 70% to 50% PPC's production base. The conclusions I think are obvious. Now, as far as this story is concerned, we too signed the "Tsipras Memorial" etc., to say that we have answered it a thousand times. We, with a sense of responsibility, signed not to throw our country away from the euro and the euro area. All the rest - and we know very well - that the specialization of the measures is not contained in the memoranda, they are always contained in the negotiations, which, with or without competence, are carried out by the various ministers. I will tell you a little story, Madam President, which I think will be interesting for colleagues. Four months ago the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, asked - and his request was met - to see the former Prime Minister of Italy and the head of the Centre, the Italian 'Elia', Mr Massimo D' Alema. So Masimo D'Alema, in 1999, was Prime Minister of Italy and with Minister of Energy, Mr. Bersani, made the corresponding "small PPC" in Italy. What was the result of the'small PPC' in Italy? ENEL, the corresponding PPC, in the years that took place, quadrupled its profits, from 22 billion profits it had in 1999, in 2014 had 85 billion profits and was extended by Italy only in 1999 in forty other countries. So those who want to say that they are claiming to be social democrats, let them take an example from the European Social Democrats. But the honourable Minister referred to the NOMEs. NOME, to say in simple terms, is: Produces PPC with its own factories at cost, buys them and sells them. PPC is therefore used as a tool for producing zero-benefit electricity for itself. That is exactly what PPC's administration does not want in any way to implement. However, to close down for 'little PPC', I will say something that I find useful to be recorded in the Minutes. The annulment of the competition for "little PPC" legislation has had two huge consequences. The first was that, if the law were to apply, PPC - not any PPC, not any superstition - would receive from the sale of about 30% of EUR 2 billion, as much as the estimate of the independent valuer was, and in addition, who purchased 30% of the law was required to invest in Meliti's large factory in Florina, a total investment budget for western Macedonia of EUR 5 billion. "Small PPC", therefore, would bring 5 billion euros to PPC's "Mama" investments and revenues. I wonder if the Minister can tell us how much money his choices will bring to PPC. Of course, I am happy to hear how much people's real debts to PPC are today, since we agreed that in January 2015 it was just 1.7 billion. If it's not 3.1 billion, what I said, let the Minister tell us how much it is. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u19	What I want to acknowledge to Mr Maniotis is that at least he is honest in defending the perception of privatization in the field of energy, indifferent to the costs, indifferent to public property. Privatization, privatisation! He dedicated his answer to his dentistry to defend this policy. And be careful now. We are talking about privatization in a country which has enormous problems in its public finances, a privatization carried out with the pistol at the head, where Mr Maniotis discovers 2,000,000 from here and 5,000,000,000,000 from there. It is the convenience with which he was uploading and uploading. These privatizations have failed, which are carried out under the circumstances of a budgetary elbow, under the conditions of a policy which the country's economy is basically hanging on by a thread, because they do not pay off. Do you know why they don't pay off? Because according to market laws, the buyer knows that. But there's a timeline. You have to sell it. You're forced to sell it. So there are not even the rules of free competition, so that there can be bidders who can operate, in any case, for the benefit of the company that is sold under market rules and therefore have a higher price. This policy has been attempted by previous governments and this policy has been stopped. And Mr. Maniotis spoke of the procedure that ended. Indeed, the process of power auctions is an alternative plan, a transitional mechanism to avoid what the previous governments had committed the country to. Really, with what benefit? With no social benefit and no benefit to PPC, which would go engraved in the new energy field, as it forms. And you say the NOME mechanism is worse. Why is the NOME mechanism worse? Because obviously you don't even know the evidence. You don't know the evidence! You say 'neither a euro'. Aren't there going to be a power auction? Aren't they going to be valued at some prices? Will PPC not be collected? The way you present them, you gave us the impression that PPC will come out every day and will offer free maggots. It's not like that. In our perception of moving to an open market we want the public to be a strong player. And we want it to be a strong public player, so that it can just because of its strong position to determine the conditions of the game in the open energy market. We have all accepted that we have now left the '70s and '80s monopolistic situations'. What matters, however, is that we have a policy where the public is exactly the strong player of the market. Secondly, the production of PPC today, Mr Manatis, that is, its share is around 57% and not around 70%, as you mentioned. It is covered by imports and others. It has now fallen and the target of 50% is not frightened at the level of production. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What is currently a challenge for PPC is its penetration into Balkan countries. Already at the moment discussions are taking place with FYROM and Albania on the creation of hydroelectric power plants, but also an effort to expand to other areas, such as the issues that concern gas in order to be able to expand and cover the lost ground in renewable energy sources. In fact, you personally, because you have spent many years with various roles in the Ministry of Energy, you should apologise for PPC being the last player in the field of renewable energy. Why did PPC, who was the first in this country, have almost nothing and its share is almost below 2%? These are your answers. In any case, I am pleased about today's debate because it has indeed enabled the world that is watching us to understand some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u20	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss the seventh under No 1103/8-7-2016 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Vagionas, on the risk of stopping the construction of vital projects in the Halkidiki Prefecture. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Here, Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u21	As I mentioned in the topical question, these are two third-class forest roads, which are carried out in the Prefecture of Halkidiki and especially in the Municipality of Sithonia. One road is forty - two kilometers and something and the other road is four and a half kilometers. The roads are beginning to happen, but because contractors have to pay since December 2016, they have stopped. They have cut three and two warrants each separately, which are unpaid. The point is that the road to the Sithonia Peninsula is mostly tourist. These roads need to be done because they dismantle the regional network, because all the agricultural machinery is obliged to go from there. Locals will prefer this forest road, because it is shorter, even if it is pervert. They will not have to be on the regional road. The other road, the small four and a half kilometers, is from the historical traditional settlement of the Parthenon to the Forest Forestry. If it had been done, perhaps the fire, which took place recently next to Porto Carras, would have been avoided. So I ask the Minister to take care of both roads, since both roads are in the BALTATZIS programme and the money is there. It is about EUR 450,000, EUR 360,000 for one road and EUR 85 000 for the second road. Today, on 31 July, the deadline for the completion of the works expires, and unless at least one quarter is extended to September to October - because after October this region is unsuccessful and is not going to enter machinery - these projects will not be carried out and will have to pay the Greek public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, to close with the substance of the question, the projects will be financed. All the necessary steps have been taken to fund them and they have never been stopped. But in order for citizens to understand why projects were not paid from December to today, the answer is very simple. The programme, which included these projects, the rural development programme, ended - like all European programmes - on 31 December 2015. That's where it all ended. So there have been projects that have responded, and fortunately with the actions and the government are going through the next phase. We are in the process right now, and these two projects are the first ones to start, and in a few weeks' time payments will also begin. We have two ministerial decisions, one of which has already been adopted and takes the new projects which have not been able to do so, and the other, which is a little more complex, takes the projects which have been done half or in part and by a process which has bureaucracy, which goes through the new programme. They're the bridge works, as you know. So the fact that these six months were not paid was because they were not entitled to be paid with the old programme and had to join the new one. There is one particular thing here, that these projects are from the rural development programme, in 713 and in 1420 - the new ones will enter 1420 - and therefore there has to be a programme agreement - there has also been in the past and at the beginning of the projects - between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Forest Directorate of our Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, so that we can get money from the other programme and include them. So right now we're just in time. The new NSRF started at the beginning of next year. We quickly incorporated the projects. As I said before, and I will tell you in my speech, we have already made a ministerial decision on new projects and the next few days we are adopting a ministerial decision on the old ones. In addition, we have already sent circular to the contractors, which is 14.18.00.13.78 of 2015, where we are giving exactly the instructions to the contractors for what they need to do to complete these projects. So at the moment we are really happy to say that the projects are not threatened, they will proceed properly and will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u25	If I understand it correctly, within two weeks, money will be given and works will begin. I will not agree with you because I am assured by the Forestry that on 31 July the deadline for completion of projects was not 31 December 2015, but that is not of interest to the world. They are interested in making the works, being able to walk, especially the farmers in the region, and decongested the regional road, which is quite narrow and has been corrected for forty years. Irrespective of this, however, the project was interrupted, Minister. In particular, a statement was made on 5 June 2015 and, after a warrant was repaid on 29-7-15, work began again on 17 August. If the smooth flow of money continued, the projects would have finished today. And as I said in my prototype, if the works do not end in the month of September, since October and after the rains start, they will not be able to work. And that's gonna be for nothing. So I repeat what I said a moment ago that I will assure people that the money will be given in August so that the work can begin to be completed. If we agree here, I have nothing more to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Chironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, we really share your concern too. That is why we are going to include projects which had to be completed in the previous programming period. I must admit the country has a loss of bridge money. And he's lost money because they could be paid out of the old programs. And when they go to the bridge, they "treat" money from the new NSRF, which could be given to other actions. But I'll remind you of some dates. Because, if you're worried, you should have worried earlier. I remind you that the great work Nikiti - Carbones joined on 23-12-2013. Already late for an ESDP programme. A year later, a year later, on 2-7-2014. It is clear, therefore, that such a large project could not have been completed within the programming period. I cannot understand, then, how there has been so much concern in the last few months that SYRIZA has been ruling and there has been no concern at that time. There was no concern about the project, which is in the programming in July 2013, and it is enough to be compatible on 14-11-2014, one year before the programming period ends. And we wonder why we keep running behind the facts. Let's go to the next play. The next project has been joined by decision on 10-5/2012. It is compatible on 25-5-2015, only a few months before the extension of the program is completed. Because the program says July 2013. We have to say, therefore, that the Members of the region are concerned. And they do well. I'm worried about them, too. I want the play to end, too. But why weren't you worried then? Three years -10-5/2012 with 25-5-2015 - to start the project and meet it? I don't understand it. You know very well that our country has been a truly dramatic pig for all these decades in the programmes. Dramatic pig! And the government broke up a absorption record in the first few months of its administration in 2015 so that no projects were awarded. Unfortunately, someone went through a bridge like that. Don't ask ourselves why they haven't been paid for this six-month period. You know very well that once the programme is over, new procedures for the integration of bridge projects need to be carried out. You know it, too, I know it. Let's not make a risk right now. We give the battle and we will succeed in making the works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u28	Minister, I'm glad...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u29	You're not allowed to take the floor again, Mr. Bagiona.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u30	A correction I'd like to make. The Accession Decision was adopted on 23-12-2013. From there on, the auction was approved on 25-8-2014. The acquisition took place at the construction company ATE, i.e. throughout 2015. For the second project, we fully agree on the dates. But for the first play these dates are for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u31	All right, Mr. Bagiona.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u32	On 14-11-2014, a contract is signed between DASAR and the construction company ATE.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u33	On 14 November. In other words, end 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u34	The point is to move on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u35	The NRV is 2007-2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u36	I'm very well informed because I'm interested in my place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u37	Be well. Thank you. The second question under number 1144/18-7-16 will be discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Georgiou Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the need to care for the damage suffered by the suppliers - producers since the bankruptcy of the company 'MARINOPOULOS'. The answer will be given by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Trophe Alexiadis. Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. With the question which I have tabled and which we are debating today, Madam President, Minister, I wanted to convey the voice of anxiety to the suppliers of MARINOPOULOS after what has happened. All the suppliers, of course, of this company have a huge problem, but today I want to highlight those who are even bigger. And I'm talking about the small suppliers whose lives are matched by the supply of this supermarket chain. There is, of course, a need to regulate the debts of the suppliers of this operation. It is known that the payments to the company were made with delays and with checks that might have reached all eight to twelve months. The fear of the collapse of the operation obviously existed to everyone. However, in practice no supplier could stop the supply of goods, since in these cases the repayment of old debts, always with post-paid checks, is a function of the continuity of the supply of goods. In fact, many accounts, you know, Minister, are closed with a related haircut. There are, of course, always post-modernised checks. There are suppliers of agricultural products that exclusively supplied this undertaking, so all of their revenues were only from the company 'MAINOPOULOS'. Today they are invited to pay VAT and declare incomes they have never collected. Because the company MARINOPOULOS has resorted to Article 99, they may never collect them. Isn't it enough, Minister, that they lost their money? Isn't it enough, Minister, that today they actually don't have a market to sell, in the middle of the summer season, their products, they have to pay over and over, they have to pay VAT which they didn't collect and have to report revenue in their tax returns and be taxed on virtual receipts? Do the state have to give at this time the graceful one, I'd say, shot at professionals who have been in this peculiar hostage? I would like your opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. MEP, with your question, you raise a very serious social issue which concerns too many businesses and farmers and other businesses who are victims of this whole story. And to a previous timely question we have answered this issue and written questions. On the same subject we have been asked a question and Mr Stylos, MP Artas and Mr Arvanitides, MP of Thessaloniki - not topical questions, simple questions. The issue is complex, because based on L.4172/13, the time to build income is considered not the actual time paid or not, a document, an invoice, but is considered the time issued by the document regardless of whether it was actually paid or not. This is the legal framework that we have been having since 2013 and which, in order to change it, we must bring in a new provision of law. The Government considers the issue of the company concerned, MARINOPOULOS, as regards both farmers and suppliers in general and workers. We cannot resolve this problem at the moment, but it is something that we are of course considering and when there is a final decision it will be announced. At the moment, there can only be one regulation for these suppliers, because you understand that very many companies across Greece would come, saying "but I have cut the document, I have paid VAT, I have taxed income tax and while I have paid it, I have not compensated the invoice". It is a complex problem and we are currently trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u42	Minister, I have tabled a question, together with other colleagues, as you have said. But I also wanted to make it timely, because you did recognize that the problem is important and I wanted the opportunity to have an exchange of views here in this House. Obviously, what you said is true, that there is real building time, and that requires them today to deposit them as incomes, even if they have not been collected, in their tax declarations. That is also the problem, however, in this case. Obviously, I will agree with you that an overall regulation is needed and not just for farmers. I put farmers in the front line, because their total income came from this business. Today, that is, to many of them there will be zero income until they find a new market. That's why I'm saying it, not because it wasn't of interest to all the other suppliers. Everyone sees their own topic from their own perspective and obviously everyone is right. So I am also talking about an overall regulation with the tip of the spear, the small ones and, above all, the farmers. I should like to say to you that a similar problem you remember that we had the unresolved rents and, of course, a solution was given. In the same way, a solution can be given today and it can be linked, I would say, with an amendment to a bill that you will bring in, in the first bill to come to Parliament, to regulate and exempt inexorably from any tax. And, of course, to regulate and oblige them to pay VAT, but also to declare by means of a further declaration within one month the collection of this money. But insisting today on a man who has lost all his income, cannot make available his production, pay VAT that he has not collected and taxed, I think it is unfair. You will tell me, "Well, last year, this company's policy was not the same? Was not paid by post-paid checks, were payments not delayed?’ Yes, but last year there was no 'Daddy' - let me say that - Article 99. Now these people see that in a few months' time, unless a solution is found - whatever solution is being given to each other - they will obviously not be able to collect money directly - they are in danger of losing them today. That's the point. That's the different. That this year we have the undertaking's confession that it can't handle it, which is why it appealed to Article 99. That's the different. And that is today that makes us raise the issue and move on to regulation. This is what makes it possible for the MAINOPOULOS operation to be distinguished from someone else who is late in its payments, the application to Article 99. I would therefore say in this spirit that, in the coming period, there will be a legislative arrangement, which we will all support in order to exclude these people, which, as I said earlier, are in a peculiar hostage, so that they do not continue to remain in it. This is their voice and their opinion today in plenary, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with you, Mr Papoutsis, that a solution must be found to this issue. We are committed as a government, as soon as things are finalised, and we have a full picture of what is going to happen, because things are going on, to give a solution to what is going to happen with the suppliers in this company, and in general to give a solution in similar cases. Unfortunately, in the tax system, we still have provisions that we do not defend. It is a necessity to have them, however, until we change them with new provisions, which will make our system fairer and more sensible. Because we have this absurdity to ask businesses, which are consistent, which have issued the documents they have to issue, to pay taxable obligations, for money they have not collected. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] It is within the planning of the government, once we have the opportunity to link one another, that is to say to link the yield of the tax only if the corresponding amount has been collected. At the moment, because of the budgetary circumstances, we cannot do that. The reward of the consequent taxpayers is within the areas we are considering, as is a number of other interventions, so that our system can finally become reasonable, proportionate and fair. Because at the moment we have provisions, such as the one you have developed very correctly, which do not give our tax system the logic of law. What I can commit to is bringing in a provision and dealing with the problem. We are not ready at this time to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of 21 May 2016, 22 May 2016 and 1 June 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u46	The minutes of 21 May 2016, 22 May 2016 and 1 June 2016 were therefore validated. We move to the second with number 1147/18-7-2016, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios Prussakis, to the Minister of Finance, on the upgrading of the Garden Customs and the exploitation of perspectives of entry- exit points in Evros. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. In Bulgaria and Turkey, the respective customs offices of these countries are fully staffed and equipped, both in terms of control instruments and facilities. At the same time, the entry-exit point of the Gardens, which hosts a large number of public and private services to operate and is one of the most important gates of entry of persons and things from third countries into the European Union, has serious deficiencies, Minister, and is lacking in relation to the conspiracy, being deported. For example, while the Gardens were controlled about five thousand loads of plant origin in 2015 against our obligations to the European Union, at the respective entry point of Captain Andreev of Bulgaria, Minister, some fifteen thousand vehicles were controlled. You understand the sizes. This is because our respective facilities do not allow many trucks to enter, with what this implies in terms of a loss of revenue for the Greek State - transit charges, taxes, quality and plant inspection fees, etc. With reference to plant control, we also have a number of shortcomings, both in staff and infrastructure, which make it difficult for the work of the local DAG. The opportunity of the region is many, but not inexhaustible in time. There are evidences from officials from our public services, but also from Greek and Turkish transport guides, that transport and export Turkish companies, as well as other countries which are served by this route, want to cross from Greece and not from Bulgaria. But the long delay due to our limited capacity at the garden border prevents them. The main objective is to extend the corridors, i.e. the available control flows to at least five, with the possibility of up to ten at the entrance and eight in terms of exit. A few days ago it was noted that due to mass entry of persons from the neighbouring country with IX cars, the freezer trucks were delayed over five days. I have been informed that a study has already been carried out to create a new customs office of around EUR 30 million, via the PPP, Minister, which has unfortunately remained without further development, a project for which it is considered that the depreciation of its costs will take place within three, four years. Minister, on the basis of the above you ask: do you intend to upgrade the existing facilities of the Gardens Customs and the other services that are stationed and conspiracy? Do you have regard to the existing study on the setting-up of new facilities? And finally, what other measures and actions do you intend to take to make better use of our country's strategic position and especially Evros in the medium and long term? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with your question you are describing and raising an issue which is of national and local importance, in the sense that, unfortunately, in the same country, we are dealing with the problem of tax competition, whether from the North or from the East, we have not yet managed to do that network of customs checks that we should have to deal with, in order to deal with this problem, but also how important this matter is to the economy of Thrace. I know your sensations about the area there. You also know my own relationships and family situations that connect me to the beloved region of Evros. I want to assure you he's on our priorities. We have already done a great deal, which we will analyse, to strengthen the Garden Customs Office and, in general, the customs services. What I mean to say is that we know the problems that exist in our customs. I would like to congratulate the Customs Service for its very important work and for the results it has had recently and especially in the second half of 2016 with the results that were made public yesterday and which show the correct course of these checks. With regard to the particulars that you have said, I will table a number of documents, so that you can have a better information, but in the time that I have. As far as staff are concerned, a document from the Human Resources Management Directorate clearly states that on a pan-Hellenic level the number of customs officers is, unfortunately, less than the organic positions laid down for customs. In order to cope with this shortage, in recent years we have been supporting customs services by appointing new customs officials and we will run out of the possibility, within the framework of the law, of giving more staff to these agencies. As we speak of staff, I should like to tell you that on Greece's side, 50 customs officers are serving at the Gardens Customs office for 24-hour shifts and three hundred sixty-five days a year, while on Turkey's side, even though it has less customs and commercial interest, are serving a hundred 12 customs officers. We are also considering all the alternatives currently envisaged, such as movements, secondments, transfers, transfers of officials within the legal framework, which is there, to strengthen the services as far as we can. With regard to the technical equipment of the Gardens Customs Office, I would like to say that this customs office has a rich equipment that we will constantly strengthen. When I went as Deputy Minister to the Ministry of Finance, we had no bridge to operate either in the Gardens or at the border with Bulgaria. At the moment the Garden Customs has two dogs of drugs detectors and two dogs of smoke detectors. It operates a fixed X-ray detector system for luggage. There is a vehicle control building Narkcontrol. Portable radioactive and nuclear detection devices have been available, 12 passers, three surveys and two rids. A bridge works. Located in competition for the supply of four cars X - ray for the control of trucks and containers. It will be the absolute weapon in the hands of the customs service, these mechanisms for this control. After the competition is completed, one is scheduled to be made available to the Garden Customs for the work that is being done there. Work is also under way to establish stable pillars of the detection of radioactive and nuclear materials and another pair of fixed pillars is to be installed. The Garden Customs Office is located between the customs offices, which will soon establish an automatic registration plate system for vehicles after receiving 90% of OLAF's HERCULLE III co-financing. It is also to be placed immediately a fluid detector dog. That is all, Mr President, and in my speech I will say the rest so that I do not eat you the precious time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Publicsakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u51	Mr Minister, thank you for your information, but keep in mind, as an institution, that your time is limited and the projects that you will do will not be much. One of the few you should do is connect your name and because of your origin, which you honor, with the entrance-out point of the Gardens, which is a key gateway both in Greece and in Europe. However, this point is a huge unexploited property of the Greek state, a deported and obsolete source of costs with enormous potential and prospects. Unfortunately, he has now completed his cycle in the present form and needs to be modernised to meet today's requirements. If you were to tell me what I would do, I would have demolished all the buildings and made from zero new infrastructure, because we cannot compete with neighbouring countries. It's a shame to call it. We could expropriate a thousand acres, two thousand acres and install new services. We could make the hotels, the shops, the parking lots that are necessary for cars, for trucks. On the other hand, we could have all the laboratories so that we could have 24-hour control and no blockages and problems. The continuation of its operation in the present form leads, at the same time, to indulgence of Nea Egnatia, a project that was a priority of the Greek state for decades and in which we North Helladians believed. The motorways, Mr Minister, are maintained only with the traffic burdens that must be locked and not every two, three kilometres of a car. Of course, we have a reduction in the use of the car because of the recession, but there is no justification for this highway being dead. New Ennatia should also become Europe's main artery and the most important road link with Asia. And northern Greece will have to take the added value it deserves, through cross-border and open circulation. At the same time, there is no attempt to exploit economic activity, which can be developed around the points of entry and exit with border parks or even economic villages. We have ideas that we need to implement. We can't stay where we are. One cannot enter the neighbouring country and feel that it has not entered Europe. He feels he entered Greece of 1970. The needs of excursions, tourists and transporters in food, housing, and even shopping can in many cases be the subject of economic development through the creation of special spaces. Instead of having a company migration into neighbouring countries and losing huge profits as a country from visitors and drivers entering and leaving the Gardens, we can create the right conditions to bloom a healthy economy in the regions. There are two million arrivals and departures of persons, one hundred fifty thousand freezer trucks, four hundred thousand IX cars. Twenty-three thousand, about, buses, Mr President, have been through since 2015 from the entrance and exit point of the Gardens. We can possibly define special privileges and incentives in these areas. What could that be, I leave them in your judgment and decision. We need to see in total, and above all with vision, the issue of upgrading the border points of entry and exit of our customs. I believe in the dynamics of the points of entry and exit, which is why, in the next year, I will also ask a question about the other points, those of the Castanes, Ormenio, Kyprinos and the railway station near my village, which is Pythrio. Please, Mr President-in-Office, and implement this decision, which has been taken in the context of the PPP. Also dare and bring this to your counterparts, because this point of entry and exit, of course, concerns our country, but it also concerns the European Union. And I think that even in the Yunker plans, the reorganisation and modernisation of this point could be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u52	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u53	Of course, Mr President. But until it is implemented, we must tackle the immediate problems and solve them. I will briefly give you, Minister, for the year's economy: personnel, as you said at both customs and police, are required to cover fully the new flows, but also qualified staff experts, scientists, as far as the DAG is concerned. In the field of personnel and logistics, individual equipment, portable equipment are required for the control and upgrading of computer equipment, as well as X-rays of vehicles. You have persons and luggage, but they also need vehicles, because we cannot know what these trains are carrying on roads. Finally, with regard to facilities and infrastructure, the most important are an extension of control flows, establishment of facilities. I think, Minister, that you will bend on the problem, which is very big, because we have ambition for our region, we have love for our region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Purchass, please complete. I've left six minutes because of the nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President, for giving us time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Alexiadis, are you a couper upstairs for talking about a family? Because, if that's it, you're blocked, you want it - you don't want it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u57	Alexiadis family is from Alexandroupolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u58	Oh, okay. Why, you wouldn't get away with it! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u59	I have reason to do things there. Apart from that, however, I think that the region of Macedonia and Thrace - particularly the region of Thrace - is and must be at the heart of each government's policy. We need a cross-party consensus and a consensus on what we will do about the issues there and problems go beyond any party disputes. We can in other fields have these controversies. As far as this particular issue is concerned, where you have asked me to give some more information. In relation to the document of the Ministry of Interior, which is in the attached documents I have submitted to you, we have specific actions to improve the building infrastructure at the Garden Border Station, where we have work to improve the buildings, with care for the region concerned we have upgrading work. The relevant supplies to ensure the smooth and uninterrupted operation of the station relate to an energy upgrade of a station, the opening of a fourth lane, the pavement of the road, traffic regulations, upgrading of buildings, installation of radioactivity detection systems for a border station, etc. We are also on the way to building the new cross-border bridge between Greece and Turkey, in an area close to the existing border station, where we will also see the issues of building facilities. In the context of a memorandum of cooperation we have between the two countries, you should get more information from the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. I've given you enough papers. Also, for the time economy, I submitted you a document from the Ministry of Rural Development, which explains the checks carried out in this area and a document from the Greek Police. Finally, I would like to end by informing you of where we are for the implementation of all this mechanism we want to strengthen both the Gardens and the customs services in general. So we said about the supply of five X-ray devices, we said the competitive process for the supply of four endoscopics for the control of containers, which is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2016. A request has been made for the procurement of five automatic vehicle registration systems worth 1,200,000 with funding from the ‘HERCULLE III’ programme, which I mentioned before. In addition, in the context of the new ESRB, the proposal to introduce the co-financing of eight to ten additional systems for recording transit-vehicle loads, X-ray-cars, that is, a total indicative budget of EUR 30,000,000, VAT. It has also been decided to discuss the provision of X-ray devices for luggage control, other devices, which are still to be identified, as well as devices for recording transit goods, etc. Finally, I would like to assure you, Mr President, that we are doing everything we can to deal with the issues of customs controls, because we know what impact they have on tax competition and trade and the pressures that the region accepts. We do, however, and we do everything possible to strengthen customs services, because we have a very clear direction to hit smuggling and customs are the tools to do this. Be sure to keep an eye on what is happening in customs and in Thrace and Macedonia, because it is about the entire government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u60	We move on to the last question Mr Alexiadis will answer. It is the fifth under number 1155/19-7-2016 timely question of the second question of the MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the revitalization of Article 44 of Law 3763, with a view to promoting self-convention in the drafting of a definitive contract by pre-confidential property transfer agents. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a simple regulation asks for the timely question I have tabled. I think that in the case of the creation of a pre-convention - which is too many, which cannot be completed for many reasons, and the fact that they were written many years ago - there is also the case that some of the sellers or their heirs are too stiff, difficult, not wanting to make compromises to finalise contracts. And there is the possibility of definitive regulation with the revival of Article 44 of the Treaty. 3763 with self-convention or with some other ways that you might have concluded in order to create this necessary regulation. I would therefore like to know what you are thinking about the finalization of these pre-agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u63	Mr Colleagues, we recognize the problem. Of course, almost three years had been given by the Greek State to deal with these issues. I am presenting for the practical detailed answers from the Ministry of Finance's Receipts Directorate and the Capital Tax Application Directorate, which refers to this issue. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you know, due to your status, when a transfer takes place it is required that various certificates such as legacy tax certificate, donation certificate, ENVIA certificate, tax information document etc. are presented by the seller. It creates a problem of drawing up contracts without all these supporting documents. And as the Services inform me, in view of the above, and taking into account the present economic situation, a three-year period had been given for the finalisation of all these old pre-conventions and it is not possible to continue to do so. Continuous extensions create a precedent for having such phenomena again. In other words, we are giving the possibility that we will, yes, give an extension, and so we will have such phenomena again. And the failure to present the required certificates by owners of real estate, with problematic or non-existent titles, poses risks to the public and rather loss of tax revenues and gives the citizen a sense that we will consolidate an unorthodox tactic, while in the matter of real estate with the completion of the Register and the application of the Customs, we want to close these loose ends that we have in relation to real estate property and all these things, which we have been troubled and lost a lot of tax revenue. Revival of the regulation is an unequal treatment of those who are favoured by this regulation and those who have drawn up the definitive contracts within the legal deadlines and paid the taxes concerned. As the Directorate for Receipts informs me, if the pre-contracted party has the right to self-contract, the purchaser shall be entitled to request and obtain evidence of information from the seller by way of a pre-agreement, provided that the conditions for the award of the document are met on the person of the seller. As you can see at this time, the Ministry of Finance is not considering the extension of this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u64	Mr Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u65	I understand the arguments, but they made me aware of the timely question, because there is an absolute logic. The preambles were drawn before 3 December 2000 and many of the sellers may have died. In other words, there is a need for us to come up with a legitimate way of creating definitive contracts, because it is no different. I think, therefore, that it is very simple for the Treasury to understand these proposals - which, for objective reasons, were unable to do before 3 December 2000 - to conclude contracts. That's a simple matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u66	Laconian, my colleague! Let's hear a lacquer answer now! Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u67	It had been extended up to 27-5-2010 to settle, for about three years it was this process. At the moment, with the data we have, we are not considering revival of this arrangement. Of course, we are revisiting the issue of what will happen to property and we will also see this issue. But at the moment, the revival of this regulation, on the basis of the developments that we have with the E9, with the Stock Exchange, we do not consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. We are entering the second cycle with three questions, to which will be answered by the Minister present, Mr Georgios Karougalos. So we begin with the fourth under number 1157/19-7-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of the workers of the company "Karfur - Marinopoulos". Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since the question has been tabled so far, there have been several reports on the negotiations that have been taking place in order to save the chain of the Marinopoulos supermarkets with references to investors, to foreign funds, which have shown interest. However, at a recent press conference, Mr Stathakis also declares moderate optimism. Before this question there was another Member of the New Democracy, and Mr Alexiadis replied about the suppliers of the group and the situation that has arisen, since the group owes about 750 million to them and is called upon to tax and pay VAT even though they have not collected anything. It is the other side of the problem, as important. However, this question also relates to our question is important because it concerns about 12 thousand workers in the group, who are living with the insecurity of losing their jobs as a result of the crisis and competition of business groups in the trade sector. In the previous period, we have to say, Minister, that the group, in order to ensure its competitiveness, shield its very existence, took advantage of all the legislative arsenal that has been passed so far. In other words, he closed shops, fired hundreds of workers, carried out a voluntary exit programme, asked workers to agree with individual contracts, imposed a reduction in allowances that workers were entitled to, even more flexible working relationships, and, of course, proceeded with a partial payment of wages. Today, neither June's salary has been paid and, of course, a part of the licence allowance. It is well known that the group has appealed to Article 99 of the Banking Code. Victims will be workers in this process unless another solution is found in the framework of acquisitions and mergers. However, whatever solution is found, unfortunately, the workers will be the victims of this development. Minister, there is the question that we want you to see and ask you by our question: What are you going to do, in order to avoid any job being lost, because it is the most important, most important issue in the context of the acquisition, the merger being a succession, and workers being also in the new employer, but in the event of the company going bankrupt, workers gain priority over the company's creditors? We know - and we remind you - that there was a change in the bankruptcy procedure last summer with a purely class measure taken by your Government, where workers' rights were classified in the 25% requirements, that is to say, a lower category. And we think that this should be addressed, it is unacceptable, it is universally necessary to change this arrangement that you have made last year. And, of course, the other question is that there should be a regular and stable payment of wages and allowances to workers so that there would be no harmous changes in working relations if, as we have said, this solution is sought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u70	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u71	Mr Colleagues, the problem of this operation is merely an indication of how Greek state-owned capitalism, in fact, was being developed since the birth of the Greek state. I do not want to philosophize, the President-in-Office is right, and I will not go into it in particular. But to say it's not just this business. We see other businesses on the same wavelength. We are trying to save these businesses, despite the great responsibilities of their employers and, as you said, the relevant ministers on economics are trying to see various forms with which the company and the workers could be rescued. This is in the purely economic business part of what you have asked. Work and protection. You are right to say that it is a deeply classic measure that banks take the lead over workers. This is one of the issues that we were unable to save in the July negotiations, one of the bad things, as I have repeatedly said, that we had to accept, in order to avoid unscrupulous bankruptcy. However, because we are now in a phase of negotiation, which cannot be imposed on us in the form of ultimatum things that were then imposed on us in the forthcoming negotiations on labour we intend to improve the position of workers. But that is why you will then ask me and I will go further into your second question. Now, as to what we have done for the employees of this company, I would like to say that there has been a series of tripartite reconciliation meetings within the Ministry of Labour. Because of our attitude and our ministry, as you know, the demands of the workers were excluded from the protection given by the court in the framework of Article 99 in the company and can continue to claim their jobs and it is understood that, by the end, we will support their efforts, especially so that the company is not closed but also for the search for their employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u72	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, there is also a delegation from the employees of MARINOPOULOS and they are following the debate. I must tell you that their anxiety and the insecurity they feel today are too great. There are stores that are licensed from supplies and workers feel that the end of the group is coming. Of course, there's State-owned capitalism, as you say. He, however, is also served by your own line and policy. What do capitalists want today? They want you to create the friendly environment, so that they can win, get out of the market. What's your name? Restrict the rights of workers even further, change the trade union law, give us the right to lock-out, give us this whole environment, so that we can save the economy. That's what they tell you, Minister, and that's what you're serving. We have the other question about collective agreements. Here, too, in this line of lower labour force price moves. Because she brings wealth, she creates wealth, the working class, no one else. Here again comes the state, with the political forces that serve this urban state, to serve precisely, Minister, these great capital needs in the context of competition, which exists with the other countries of the imperialist states and organizations between them and so on. Where's this situation going? That is why we say that there is a need today to draw conclusions from the workers as a whole, that this system is barbaric, it is rotten, it has nothing to give but unemployment, insecurity, uncertainty, poverty and impoverishment. This is a truth that cannot be hidden, so they should be in this line of the other kind of organization of the economy, where not everyone will produce, so that they can win the parasites. Now, within the crisis, 140 billion euros came out, Minister. Now, in the crisis, 140 billion euros! Who produced these? These workers who are unpaid, who are today fired, who have these working relationships, this working jungle. We say, therefore, that things are not, unfortunately, as they are said. Of course, that's capitalism. You are serving him today at the expense of the workers and you say, 'We have not been able to change this regulation, to precede the workers'. Yes, but it is a measure that has again been taken to support state-owned capitalism - that is, Minister - to the detriment of workers, those who work. How will workers receive their allowances if they are bankrupt or made redundant? How will they be collected by whom? Where? What are they gonna do? It's issues you can't leave them like that. You have a great responsibility towards the world of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u74	But until we get there, Mr Katsotis, in the other form of economy, let us now see what we can do together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u75	That's what I said, he's very responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u76	Let us see what we can do together - I stress - for existing workers and when we get where you dream, we see what we are doing. Now what we're doing is the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u77	Yes, but you didn't do anything, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u78	I say, now what do we do? I have justified you, I have not wronged you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u79	You're not doing anything. You don't do either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u80	You don't understand what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u81	I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u82	If you understand why you object? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u83	And so I would start, Mr. Comrade. I share the need to have a system of organization of society and of the economy, which is not exploited by human beings. But that's not what we're talking about right now. Also, Denmark and other Bangladesh have other kinds of capitalism. So the way in which we organise labour relations and growth, even a market economy system, is of interest even until we get to that system, the different one I want. On this point. Mr. Stathakis' steadfast optimism is not without a background. There are currently discussions, there are plans. I also know that the situation is bad and justified, it is right for the workers to be concerned. Forty-eight branches have been closed so far, and so, as the situation is shaped, namely by not having a continuous flow of goods to the shelves, the turnover of the company is falling, and therefore, its business value is falling. Therefore, every minute, which passes, it is important and we are aware of this situation. What I just want to say to you - why we cannot make announcements at this stage of the debate - is that we will do everything we can, above all, to ensure that the business is not closed and, of course, to safeguard the individual rights of workers as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. We enter the fourth with number 1156/19-7-2016 topical question from the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouliakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reintroduction of the Collective Work Agreement of Actors. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the timely question I have the honour to submit is 'Reiteration of the Collective Active Activity Agreement'. In March 2013, the then government of New Democracy, through its political decision and by voting n. 4606 abolished the collective agreements for both the free theatre and the free theatre actors. Since then, the profession of actors has been plagued by huge unemployment, which is 95%, and those who manage to work in some theatrical production, have concluded individual contracts with entrepreneurs - producers as matures. For each performance, the sum of EUR 7 per performance, i.e. EUR 3.5 per annum, is paid for, whereas for the hours spent during rehearsal, they are not paid at all. The current government has repeatedly expressed its intention to restore collective agreements in the private sector. However, when the Ministry responsible started the processes for the reintroduction of the Collective Works Agreements, the theatre businessmen, as expressed through the Panhellenic Association of Free Theatre, called for the General Assembly of PPP and decided to dismantle it. So, in view of the above, you ask: what are the political intentions of the Ministry responsible, in order to solve the problems, for reintroducing collective labour agreements, so that the actors' industry can regain the right to work and decent living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u87	My dear colleague, obviously the broader issue of the reintroduction of collective agreements is an identity issue for us. It is at the heart of negotiating the next round of evaluations. And I want to believe that by forming a common front, starting to form, we will be able to return Greece to social Europe. Because, indeed, the abolition in practice of collective bargaining has often said that it was equivalent to a ticket...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u88	In your view, is there a social Europe? Because, according to me, it probably doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u89	You're very right. It is also one of the points we are critical of the Communist Party's colleagues. In summary, my view is that at European Union level we never had a social Europe. At national level, we have had. This differentiates Europe from other models of the market economy. Indeed, in recent years, the national social states have been under pressure, partly because of European Union policies. I think, however, that we have, in fact, reached a key moment. We see all this concern of the middle class, which is shrinking everywhere, to form resistance to this current, which may take the form of xenophobic and extreme right-wing traits, as we have seen them in the centre of Europe, but they may also take the form, in my opinion, of bringing Europe back to the platform of social solidarity and rights. That's all in general. On the special now, there are two collective agreements in the field of actors, where we could intervene more directly, because they are public legal persons, at the National Theatre and at the State Theatre of Northern Greece. These can, in a way, be a driver. What have we proposed in a similar case to hotel officials who have been in similar status on the part of their employers, that is to say in a practice not to discuss? Call the representative worker union at the same time, in our case, the actor's union, and all the theatrical owners. Therefore, since there is no institutional interlocutor at secondary level, we have proposed that they should be invited to discuss at operational level and thus their concurrent conversation should be able to take after sectoral convention characteristics, possibly with the intervention of the OMEI. In short, I say that the alternative tactics that can be shaped towards this very paradoxical practice of some employers' organisations are to dismantle themselves, in order not to become a contract, is to call individually the members of these secondary organisations, not to enter into parallel operations, because that is where you realise that there is no possibility, because we do not have an operational club corresponding to each theatre area, but in order to be able to reach a sectoral agreement through the mediation, possibly, of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency, the OPCF. I am not saying this, obviously, as an indication of the actor union. I fully recognise their freedom. I am simply saying a similar practice, with which another employee sector has moved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u90	Here you go, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answer, but I would like to raise a few further questions. Let me inform you that the POTO, the secondary trade union organization in the field of spectacle and hearing, submitted an application before the Mediation and Arbitration Organization for the provision of mediation services and the signing of a sectoral collective labour contract with this responsible employer trade union organization, the PDO, which is only a trade union organisation, not because businessmen have money and make money. This S.H.I.E.L.D. doesn't pay anyone. He's not paying anything. Makes the businessman free of money. I must tell you that we have also requested, as workers, the Minister's intervention under the sole article of Law No.435/1968 in order to determine the minimum levels of wages and other working conditions for workers. I would like to denounce, Minister, that while the PCI is supposed to be dissolved, it is still operating and fruiting all positive, for example the tickets from the OGA. Here is a matter for other ministries. In other words, while it does not discuss labour, while it does not deal with workers, it uses the employers' union for some positive and the beneficial provisions that concern it. Let me note and denounce that one of the reasons for the dissolution of the PCI is that these theatres that have and operate do not meet the conditions of operation, according to a Communication from the Municipality of Athens and a corresponding report from the Fire Service. So, from the state's point of view, the greatest possible pressure must be exerted, even through justice, so that they are forced to sign this collective labour agreement. And, Minister, there must be control. It's not enough collective bargaining. There's got to be a check. In the field of theatre, cinema and television, circumvention of contracts is a rule. This is something SYRIZA has already put it through the Member of Ms. Maria Kanellelopoulou. A question was raised by Mrs Gereku and Mrs Gereku replied that checks have been carried out and that results have been obtained. But never, in the nuisances of SYRIZA and our unions and the actors’ labor associations, no evidence has been given. So we need to organize a collective labour agreement soon, immediately and not wait for social Europe in a match, which I do not know if we will ever see. Because even these entrepreneurs who operate at EUR 3.5 an hour, we have many cases, the rule is to put only two or three brands a month to the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u92	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, I historically want to tell you - all of us - that I remember the late Anna Synodou. Consider, after the post-multiple, the actors did not have medical care. Holy monsters of the theater, when wages were not of the well - being periods, were looking to find no known minister of health, so that they would be treated with heavy illness. I must confess, Mr Skourico, that I was surprised you said about the seven euros at the show. If you consider that the maximum is seven performances per week, we are talking about one fifty per week. So, we're talking about 200 euros a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u93	And less. They don't even have five performances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u94	I, in addition to others, understand that you have the sensitivity to them. Call all those responsible for the cultural parties together and sit down and find a solution. It's humiliation. And say it by his name, if not a monopoly, oligopoly there is now in the theater area. There's an entrepreneur who has ten theatres. It's a oligopoly. I'm sorry about the intervention. I'm just joining my voice with Panos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I think that this is the concept of parliamentary control, that is to say, in different ways, that we can highlight areas which may be something that can be done. In support of what you are saying, I now accept many artists' representatives, not just actors. They have a major issue with their pensions. Because imagine, with this working life, how to have the corresponding meanings. And indeed, it is one of the problems that we are trying to see how we deal with them. In order to conclude a collective labour contract, we cannot put pressure on the one we have already exercised. What I said before, in the context of the overall exchange of views with the President, was not that we would expect social Europe to change. In September and October we have the negotiation. That is where we will be moving forward immediately, which we hope will be able to bring all the workers' sectors back to the hull. This request, for my decision to set a minimum fee, was made. These specific provisions of 68 are in force in the light of the Memorandum of Understanding. In any case, how would our position be politically compatible, which we want to return all the issues relating to wages in collective bargaining, with an earlier issue, the minimum wage being the subject of the National General Association of Labour and, on the other hand, I, on my own decision, would set minimum wages? Would there not be an obvious, inherent opposition to what is our strategic choice and one of our main objectives in the negotiation, that wages should be returned to collective bargaining, and, on the other hand, that I would do what the lenders are asking for, be the Ministry of Labour, which would determine the wages? Personally, I don't think I could do that. On the issue of controls, now, this is a big issue. I've never heard of what you said, that they dissolved themselves and continue to collect. This may also be a criminal offence. It's our responsibility and in terms of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u96	Virtual contracts...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u97	Deal, yes. I, in these cases - and I think all the wings of this House - think we should be ruthless. There can be no businessmen, who are treasured and have artists - and even artists, who are workers and also have this divine talent - who are unhappy. Indeed, if we have specific complaints, even if they are not branded, and through the audit mechanisms we have and through the control of funding flows, I fully commit that it will be a priority in our controls. Unofficially if they exist, I'll be transferred. I understand that there is a terrorism in the workplace. And informally, whoever has specific things to say to me, I'll gladly see him in my office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u98	I think something's come up. We close the circle of topical questions to Mr Katrugalos with the second question of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis. It is the sixth question under number 1159/19-7-2016 of MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the implementation of the Collective Labour Conventions for Workers at the Hotels of Greece. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. We referred earlier to the European Union, whether it is social and so on. Her decisions are unrealistic. The decisions taken so far have had painful and painful consequences for the workers themselves and the people. The overall overturns that have taken place, as well as in the collective negotiations on the subject which they had, in the obligation of all workers, in the respective sector of the economy, continue with your Government, Minister, and here is the biggest problem that exists and arises from the previous question. Your commitment to continue the implementation of the same framework as the second Memorandum, L.4093/2012, as well as L.4046/2012, has shaped jungle conditions across all branches, overturned terms of pay and work for the majority of the employees. Now what's going on? How does the contract apply? Information we have, they show - I say, Attica, for example - that of the many hotels that exist - and we are talking about several hotels - the contract applies to the fifteen hotels, which are also operating unions, to the four which also have operational contracts in all five, which are implemented under the daily intervention of the trade union. At three hundred ninety, Minister, the convention does not apply. We have associations of people, which are a majority. And I'm sure you have knowledge of a study of the OMD, which says, Minister? Because matters are serious. It says that 86.3% of the operational contracts are with associations of people, which have now been made since 2012. 83.4% are with individuals' associations. These, Minister, are 19.8% of the hotels. So you understand that everything has been overturned here and it is clear that the majority of these contracts, 66.8%, have a reduction in the wages of workers and the working conditions of the workers. 19% predicts an explicit, straightforward reduction, and 47.8%, Minister, provides for an adjustment to the limits of the national collective agreement. In other words, while there is a sector, workers are paid less than EUR 586 or EUR 510 for workers under 25. This is therefore a situation in which tourism, in which there has been no crisis, has not experienced a crisis. We have a record every year, a new record, year after year, and arrivals from tourists and a turnover and profits, and yet, the employees live with fewer pay, with much worse working conditions. I would like to mention the latter, Minister, because we have already asked a question: Seasonal stable workers are staying, as are those who practice. If you're going to Mykonos, they've been in a container, there's the working students, and those who work seasonally on the island. The same is happening in Istanbul, the same in Rhodes, etc. We're talking about a tragedy. Of course, there is no control anywhere. What are you going to do about them, Minister? Will you abolish this existing law, which effectively abolishes collective labour agreements? It is the universal demand of the workers. On the basis of a study by the GSEE, by Metron Analysis, the majority of workers - regardless of which party they belong to - say that the foundation of the collective labour contract and its compulsoryity must be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u100	The rest of you will tell your dentistry. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u101	The audits carried out by the Labour Inspectorate confirm this picture. But we need help, precisely because the Labour Inspectorate is under-represented. Please specify what you said about the container in Mykonos and I will make sure that the relevant check is carried out within this week. As you know, every time we have specific complaints, we try to control them. The essential thing, however, is that the institutional framework that has been established over the past five years, in fact, allows associations of people, which are often employers' construction and patents, to be able to introduce exemptions from the existing sector, even when they exist and have not been abolished, as in the case of hotels. Here to know that even SETE is in favour of a key topic that we will negotiate in September, the expansion of branches, for the simple reason, that a regime of unfair competition is being created, when a proportion of hotels implement sectoral labour contracts, which have higher pay terms and other employers apply other things. It is one of the few cases where there seems to be a coincidence of workers' and employers' interests. Persons' associations, too, are right to point out that they are a key deregulation tool. I was surprised, as I thought it was a new idea of the International Monetary Fund, but it already existed in the Pinochet Labour Code, after the overthrow of the Alent Government. In the forthcoming negotiations, we seek to expand sectoral contracts, which have already been frozen since the 2011 Act, so that where there is certainly a majority of workers from those who have signed the sectoral convention, as was the case in the past, we can extend it to all workers. We also want - and this is even more decisive - to restore the principle of favor, in the event of conflict of provisions at a different level. In the first, there is already a relative consensus of the social partners, and in the second, there is no agreement. However, in the negotiations we do not only intend to promote the issues on which there is an absolute consensus among the social partners. For us, these are the minimum common denominator. It is entirely within our political intentions to raise the issue of both groups of people and the principle of favor in the forthcoming negotiations, and we hope to improve this situation in this context, of returning to European regularity. Because here in fact, regardless of whether there is or is not a'social Europe', in the other countries of Europe they are able to agree on wages. They do not have the above-mentioned law imposed on us by the Memorandums.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u102	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you know that, following the meeting you have held and the joint communiqué, the BSE crisis has come out and clearly said its position: it is against expansion and compulsoryity, that it prejudges operational and not sectoral conventions, and of course, its position on trade union law, the protection of trade unions as a whole, but also on the question of the strike. In other words, BSE has "emptied you" because it serves the needs of business groups, which it represents. And, of course, I do not know whether you really have the illusion that BSE will support such a prospect - I think you do not have it - to reinstate collective bargaining, collective agreements and compulsoryity, to overcome the sectoral collective agreement with regard to business. These are issues which workers, trade unions, and, of course, there are initiatives to organise the fight in this direction, so that collective agreements can be the ones facing the aggression of big capital, they will face all this de facto effort to abolish what is left over. I told you how many hotels in Athens now the contract applies. For those which do not apply, these minimum conditions and rules which have not been applied shall not apply. For example, the allowances: they are unknown. They have been abolished by the employers themselves, and wherever they have appealed, they are not justified. It is, in other words, an issue in which the State as a whole has ceased, even as a minimum, to be with the worker and his right. The employer's right! This is dominating everywhere. You want in the courts, you want anywhere, in any mechanism that exists today, and it says that it applies the minimum conditions and rules, the worker does not find it right anywhere. And you say, 'Let's help. What about the checks? So, should you not take inspectors to the Labour Inspectors' College to do the checks? Not in Athens, downtown, Attica, three hundred ninety hotels do not apply the contract. They're members of the Hotel Union. He's in the Federation. So why don't they apply it? And in any case, we do not agree with this logic which says 'those who are not members must not apply'. We agree with the bindingity of the contract. This, however, needs to be addressed. If they are not treated, there will be this working jungle. We, of course, call on the workers to fight against this working jungle, on the subject of collective agreements, compulsoryity and the OMD. And here again, as you would see, what does BSE say? It's against mediation. He wants to find weak workers, to terrorise some of the workers, not to participate in their unions, so that he can impose on associations of persons or otherwise on such pay and work conditions, in order, above all, to ensure profits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u104	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u105	For the general question: Obviously, the class interests of industrialists are not the same as the class interests of workers. There could be coincidences where? What does BSE want? It wants a stable economic environment and a stable social and political environment. It also understands that we are going to go back to issues that are identical to us, such as those of working people, we are not going to do. For the sake of also avoidance of unfair competition, I have realised that employers' organisations are not at present opposed to the expansion of industry. Obviously, there are shades to the extent that this particular request also supports. For me, however, it is particularly important that, despite the differentiations, shades which are justified by the obvious - the class interests of those he represents are not the same as the class interests of the world of work - he did not withdraw his signature from the joint declaration of the social partners, which we intend, as I said in my previous position, to constitute the minimum common denominator, the minimum common basis from which the negotiation will begin. This joint statement, therefore, says that everyone is asking, the minimum wage being the subject of the National General Labour Convention, they say that there is no question - with reference to previous statements - collective redundancies, retardation. They are, of course, extremely vague about the issue of expansion, which will help me to negotiate to say that it carries the demand of the whole social world and from there on, we will demand more. It is important, however, that this joint declaration, if it is implemented, effectively overturns the paradigm of working arrangements over the past five years, precisely because it affects the core of what was intended, dismantled and societalizes the relevant decisions on labour relations, not actually taken by political bodies, nor by the interaction of the social partners, but to be defined rapidly - see by means of the directives that will come out of the governments concerned. This is ultimately a question of democracy, and that is why I believe that the social partners will also support it as fully as possible, although I must admit that I am a little concerned by some of the statements made by the Head of State of New Democracy, which are in favour of institutional changes, as is seen from the International Monetary Fund. I told you that these institutional changes, nothing new brings. In fact, the outline of what has been imposed on us over the past five years is already found in the Pinochet Labour Code. I have asked - so that this is not a mere expression - to come to the international conference, organised on 16 and 17 September, the employment adviser of the Chilean Minister, who is now trying to change this working code so that he can confirm the truth. Therefore, the issues of the expansion of the sectoral contract and of favor will be at the heart of the negotiation. In terms of controls, unfortunately, where there is currently a contract with the associations of persons, in accordance with this law, which we want to overturn, the Memorandum of Understanding, the derogation from the sectoral convention is legal. There will not be anything to control the APRC, for the simple reason that things are like things - what we want to change - is de facto and de jure shaped, so that there is a divergence from the sector. On the contrary, where neither the branch is applied without an operational collective labour contract, or other conditions are violated - people cannot stand in stables, they are not animals - that is where we will intervene. The help I have asked for is precisely because the Labour Inspectorate is under-represented, despite the measures that we are now taking to strengthen it. I have also told previous questions that additional recruitment and transfers are going to be carried out. When we have specific complaints, it becomes more effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u106	And we're going to the last two questions for today. The first is the third with number 1134-12-2016 top-level question of the First Cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the interruption of the aid to the Federation of Deaf Greek for the costs of interpreting programs in sign language. The question will be answered by the relevant Minister, Mr Fotou, present. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July we have all witnessed, through the letter sent by the Greek Deaf Federation, the interruption of the programme of interpretation of sign language, due to the debts that exist from the Ministry to the interpreters working in this programme. The Ministry is well aware that it has entrusted the implementation of this programme, an interpretation of sign language, the Federation of Greek Deaf, with a ministerial decision, which has been renewed in recent years. Recently you, on 7-11-2015, renewed this assignment. There are the relevant appropriations entered each year in the Ministry's regular budget. A series of meetings that began since 2015 with the Federation and with you personally, the Secretary-General of the Ministry and other factors, enabled the problem to be raised, which exists in relation to funding, which is obviously not sufficient, but also led to the conclusion that the Ministry and you personally will do everything possible, in order to be able to provide and intensify, to find a permanent funding to meet these needs. Recently, on 14 July, the sum of EUR 56,000 was allocated to be repaid in 2015. Since the beginning of 2016, however, there have been fees paid to interpreters or staff who are supportive administrative staff for this programme. We, necessarily, tabled two questions as a parliamentary group, one on 8 February and the other on 6 April. Unfortunately, they were responded very slowly in May. The answer we have received was vague and you will in future put the solution to an issue that seems to be extremely urgent. As you can see, this delay and the improperness of the Ministry's services forced unpaid interpreters to stop providing their services. However, this interruption means, in practice, a very sensitive category of our fellow citizens - that of the deaf and heavy - that communication is being stopped, and that is why they are being marginalised and, furthermore, their access to health and education is being abolished, to the great needs that they may have to meet with regard to health or public administration, legal services, etc. Thus, the state treats them as second-class citizens who, yes, have obligations but lack their basic rights. And let me briefly say that both the Constitution and Article 21, as well as the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, are being violated in this way and it is a fundamental obligation for the State to be able to meet such needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u108	In your dentistry, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u109	Sure. Thank you, Mr President. The question, therefore, to you, Minister, is what you will do so that the programme of the interpretation of sign language can continue and, above all, when you will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u110	Here you go, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u111	Mrs Kefalidou, thank you for the question, except that it is a wrong title, because we have never interrupted the strengthening of the Greek Federation of Deaf People, for the costs of interpreting programs in sign language. On the contrary. As you are well aware - because I see you have studied the texts - this year at the beginning of the year 30,000 euros for interpretation, for the year 2016. In 2015 we enrolled 80,000 euros. I have just seen this change from our services, with my own decision on 19-2-2016, aid was made with another EUR 50,000 in order to implement the actions of the WMD, that is, the Greek Deaf Federation, as in 2015. Indeed, the WMD brought the evidence required for the interpretation costs in sign language and paid with the supporting documents it has already brought. He brought 56,000 euros. So it absorbed or brought for the first half of 2016 - I don't know what these are, which you're telling me about 2015- costs of EUR 56,000, which are paid, on the basis of the procedure. And we expect him to bring the rest for the second half of 2016. So I don't understand what the problem is and why the Greek Deaf Federation has made announcements that it's interrupting the interpretation. I don't understand that. I will reply, however, further and explain what is happening right now with the Greek National Foundation, the only supervised public body, which we have for the deaf and severes of Greece, which, with its extraordinary announcement on 8 July, urgently calls on the interpreters of the Greek semantic language to come directly to cooperation, with a view to the national and full coverage of the needs for the interpretation of all our deaf and hard fellow citizens. This is happening on 8 July. The announcement that the WMD came out has a date of July 7, while the repayment of EUR 56,000 has begun. I will come back, of course, because at the National Deaf Foundation of Greece, as you know, the WMD is involved. I want to hear exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u112	Yes, we should listen and understand, because they are two broadly opposite views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u113	Well, that's what I'm saying, to figure out exactly what Mrs. Kefalidou tells me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u114	Here you go, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u115	Madam Minister, I have before me the letter sent by the UCLAF and the UCLAF, which is the tertiary body. Both therefore say that Monday 11 July 2016 the interpreting program was interrupted in sign language, and no new request is accepted, while those requests are already scheduled by the service of the sign language interpretation program are cancelled. I have in front of me the announcement from the National Deaf Foundation, which says that on 8 July the procedure will be initiated for applications for interpretation, and applications will be accepted from 11 July to 25 July. One part is procedural, that is, "Submit our applications" and the other part indicates a interruption in the provision of the service. It's two different things. I would therefore like to ask you this: it is another thing that I have declared the service and another thing to do with the service. So, at the moment, from the texts that we Members have in our hands, it seems that the service of interpretation cannot be given to deaf and hard. I ask the following simple question: First, what is going on in 2016 with the pay of interpreters? Have they been paid? I say this not only for interpreters, but also for people who are subsidiary in this programme, such as administrative staff. What about the operational costs of this programme? They're covered? Are they unpaid? The second question is this: In the medium term, which you have begun the process of changing the body implementing the interpretation service, from the Deaf Federation to the National Deaf Foundation, any citizen who needs this provision - let us say he is deaf or heavi and wants to go to a court or has an important health issue - from where he is served? Do you have a picture? Let me tell you that because I read the answers you have given to us in writing, I will fully agree with what you are saying, that, in other words, your Ministry's main priorities are to defend the life, health, dignity and social protection of the disabled. But where is this defence and what is translated into? As you can see, words are not enough. I would like to say to you, too, that this is another good intention and another act. It is another way of doing things and the result. It is another thing that I should like to have a service and another service. Allow me to finish, in order not to abuse time, to tell you that this reminds me of the story about the Santorini Hospital. The intent is good and good. We were opening up, cut ribbons, but we don't have doctors. Recently, pregnant who went to the hospital was forced to stay at Heraklion Hospital in Crete, because there was neither neonatological department nor anesthesiologist nor haematologist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Mrs. Kefalidou, but this is for Mr. Polakis. It's not for Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u117	I am simply making a transfer of the situation, so that we can understand the difference between 'implementing something' from 'I intend to implement it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor. I understand you have the proof for the fifty-six thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u119	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u120	If you don't have them, send them on Monday to testify in the Minutes, let's see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u121	I'll send them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u122	Not that we question, but that's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u123	We said the service isn't working.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u124	What service, Mrs. Kefalidou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u125	The service of interpreting to the heavi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u126	Let the Minister answer. Here you go, Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Kefalidou, from the Ministry's point of view, we did so explicitly. In other words, we were asked not to change the sum of eighty thousand which was in 2015 and we did so immediately. So when the Deaf Federation came and they told me, “Why have you put thirty thousand on us this year? You have to do it as much as time is needed" - the services have put it - I did so without delay. That's why my act...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u128	Last year, not next year. I say this for the Minutes, because you said 'time'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u129	So if you know, Mrs. Kefalidou, the WMD's accounts, tell me. I know what the services tell me. My services say they've filed supporting documents for fifty-six thousand compared to eighty. We're paying for it right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u130	So it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u131	So why is the Deaf Federation interrupting the program, since it has the rest of the money? I'm not a guesser. What I know, of course, is that the National Deaf Foundation, which is a Legal Person of Public Law - one is Federation, the other is a Legal Person of Public Law, supervised by us as a body - decides in cooperation with the WMD to launch its large interpretation programme. I don't understand exactly what's going on. If you understand well...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u132	Is the service provided? Today a deaf man can be served?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u133	But that's possible, Mrs. Kefalidou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u134	Mrs. Kefalidou, you are experienced. Don't interrupt. You asked the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Kefalidou, can there still be EUR 24 000 for the second half of the year, that the aid from the state-owned lottery - has not been requested by the OMKE, at all - and you can tell me that the programme cannot be carried out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u136	I'm not saying it. They say so themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u137	But listen, you should investigate a little bit more. I believe, indeed, that we will do a very serious job now to cover both transparently and with sign language interpretation records the whole case. No one will remain severe and deaf without the interpreter that is necessary. That's what I know. And if we have such cases, if there are uncovered cases, I will, from today, investigate it, Ms. Kefalidou. That's my duty, and I'll do it. And I'll see exactly what's going on. What I have is exactly the opposite picture. I have assurances from the National Deaf Foundation that they are going for a very large programme now, guaranteed, in terms and rules and with the collaboration of the WMD, where I told you that he participated in the Board of Directors of the National Deaf Foundation. That's why I don't get it. They're probably like the ones of Thera's Hospital, really. Where there is a hospital, which was sitting there for five years, we have put doctors and suddenly hear them, because - he says - the same case could not be dealt with. But that's all. Something is wrong, because we manage to create huge issues to the Greek people every time, when we put it under the table. The major thing is that Thera was five years closed to receive a private hospital. That was the big one, since you wanted to make parallels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you for the answer you gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u140	All right, now we've gone to close down well. I think that you are two colleagues who are interested in these matters. I mean the question. Minister, at a point, watch it. Mrs Kefalidou insisted on the transition from the regime that is now in the new regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u141	That's why there's another 24,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u142	That's right. There may be an objective problem. So call the Federation, call the Deaf Foundation, call Mrs. Kefalidou and find a solution. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. You pointed it out correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u144	Now for the Santorini Hospital, let it go. We are now moving to the last question, which is the first under number 1154/19-7-2016, a topical question for the second question of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payments of the OPEKEPE, of the area support for vineyards for 2015. Generally of the Samos vineyards or vineyards? I'm saying now, to promote you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u145	Generally speaking, but I focus on the problem, which appears in the Samos vineyards, where on June 29, 2016, payment took place. However, from the total of the applicants for vines, which were a thousand two hundred sixteen, only eight hundred seven, while from the total of the agricultural parcels declared, two thousand nine hundred fifty-seven, six hundred and fourteen have been identified. In my question, OPEKEPE replied that there is a problem with the mapping models. However, because there has been a multitude of agricultural production in Samos - in addition to all the other problems, namely - I would like to ask whether and how the Ministry intends to intervene, in order to have a mapping credibility, to pay people and, above all, not to lose those who have not been approved, the right to the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much. You were plundered, Mr. President. I hope that your answer, Minister, is clear and pluralistic. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u147	The question both of the oral and written texts, which we have in our hands, raises questions which are really serious and which indeed respond to reality. However, there is a ministerial decision, which stipulates that the beneficiaries of the aid in question must have submitted a declaration of cultivation, that is, that they have what we call the 'vine register', an annual harvest declaration, an annual production declaration and a single application for aid. In addition, of course, they should have three conditions laid down by national legislation, but also by Union legislation. The payment was made by OPEKEPE, as the honourable Member said. However, it was only for the parcels crossed and identified with those in the wine sector. In Samos, of the two thousand nine hundred fifty-seven vineyards, the thousand sixteen, eight hundred seventeen producers were not identified. However, after payment of the basic payment, another two hundred fifty seven parcels were identified which involved another hundred and thirty producers and were incorporated into the payment of the basic aid. For agricultural parcels, which have not resulted from the specific payment, the OPEKEPE will send the relevant information to the audit services concerned, namely, the Directorates of the Agricultural Economy, the known RAGs, the Department of Vineyards and the Department of Electronic Governance of the Ministry of Rural Development, in order to correct the incorrect position of the agricultural parcels in question so that they can be incorporated into the Vineyard Register and to allow for a new payment. In any case, of course, there are deadlines until 15 October for these payments to be made. We believe that it will be quicker, after the relevant junction and correction have been made. Of course, my dear colleague, I want to make one thing clear. There is no possibility of changing the agricultural parcels submitted on the basis of the 2015 single payment. We can't fix them. However, these wine growers will not lose their rights. Of course, Mr President, particularly after the abolition of the forced duty, additional measures for the cultivation of vines in Samos need to be taken. And because I really know your anxiety, my dear fellow Member, and your objection to the abolition of forcedness, I will respond to my denigration as regards the Samos vineyards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u148	I guess it was a good answer, Mr. Sevastakis. Let's see what you say. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u149	Good! I'm glad you approve it, Mr. President. In addition, the Union of Consensual Cooperatives and the Office has submitted the proposal to consolidate and correct divergent paper formats in order to normalise the status of payments. Generally now - and you have rightly made this bridge - the problem of Samos' agricultural production is very serious. I have already asked you a question two days ago, concerning the risk of losing the PDO for Samos wine, at least, on the basis of the agreements or on the basis of the rumours of the European Union and Canada agreement. We also have KHS, which changed the status of Samos's Association for Agricultural Cooperatives, EOSS, the great banking pressure that is being exerted and imposed by political intervention, as well as a reconstruction or revision of the cooperative's loan, as well as the insurance and tax conversion that has been made. So all this creates a very difficult environment for Samos farmers. Minister, if I combine it with the crisis in the tourism product, which is in existence this year, I think we need to get into a logic of exercising overall, integrated policies that will create those tools for strengthening, refining and developing. A lot more, and when we have a high-quality product - and I am talking about wine in particular - when we have the raw material, when we have growing know-how, when we have a territorial base of very high quality - the territorial characteristics of Samos and climates are particularly and globally local - I have to find those policies, which will also exalt the loan environment under which the cooperatives operate and release the great creative and commercial and cultural - I insist - power that Samian products have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u150	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u151	Mr Colleagues, the problem at this point in the cooperative space is, in general, liquidity. Mr President, the debts of the cooperative area, which if they are not dealt with, are so increased and due, we risk losing a fortune of the rural area we need. And we need it to touch the productive reconstruction. But, especially for Samos, there are two repercussions, quite painful and our goal is to deal with them. One impact relates to the abolition of the compelling, resulting from the ‘toolbox 2’, which provided for the abolition of the compelling for the beverages industry by October 2015. In this case there was the agreement, which was drawn up by Law No.4336/2015, an agreement which all parties, which is in favour of the European path in our country, signed it. So we had to implement it. At the same time, you know that there was a judicial decision which, in its way, imposed the abolition. The second concerns the lack of adequate protection of Samos's wine in international agreements, agreements signed by our country, such as the case of Canada. Whatever happens with Samos wine, it also happens with the feta. There is no adequate protection of the Products of Origin or geographical indications. However, the risk is in agreements that are in progress with other countries, such as China, which has guaranteed Samos's wine as a brand name and in the relevant negotiations, it always puts that closed down. We are fighting for the consequences from our side. And beyond that, of course, we also have to look at the sector's support. You know that the aid it receives relates to basic aid, greening and a programme concerning the Aegean islands. It is a total of about 130 euros per acre. We also aim at two additional supports: One concerns the adoption of the export promotion programme for this wine, which has been submitted by the cooperative and within the days it will be announced. The second is this: because we cannot introduce it into the linked aid scheme, we are going to introduce it into an agri-environmental programme specific to the island - a similar programme that we have done for Santorini - where we are going to have a programme of around 1 million, with a total benefit of about 70 euros per acre, so that we can get to 200 euros per acre. And we believe that this process and the cooperative, free now, will be able to operate and, at the same time, will ensure an additional income for winegrowers. Mr President, it is important that these products of geographical indications, quality products, support them, because they are the most competitive products in international trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u152	We have here as the Bureau that you have clearly replied 'yes' to Mr Sevastakis's question that they will not lose the money and those who have not been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u153	And the loan side.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u154	Okay. It was more general, second. Thank you very much, Mr Apostleu. The ninth under number 914/27-5-2016 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi", will not be discussed. The first under number 1153/19-7-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Lassis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need for the urgent strengthening of the sufferings of new actors, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questioner Member. The fifth question under number 1139/13-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the indefinite postponement of the trial of SIEMENS because of the non-translation of the parliament, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. Eleventh under number 1130-12-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the artistic programme of the Athens Festival 2016 and the reactions to Rodrigo Garcia's "4" performance, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The twelfth, under number 1048/27/2016, a timely question for a second question by the MP for the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kossilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning "the disastrous and unjust demand from the HEDO for payment of a great and unjust fine to businesses which had closed down during the crisis and are now seeking to be activated", will not be discussed due to the improper Member. The sixth question under number 1148/18-7-2016, first question by MP I' Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the immediate withdrawal of Turkish military forces from the Aegean, Cyprus and the Southeast Mediterranean, will not be discussed in consultation of the questioning Member with the relevant Minister. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the design for the archaeological Museum of Mesaras, will not be discussed in consultation of the questioning Member with the relevant Minister. Finally, the eighth question under number 1072/29-6-2016, on the situation in the "Greek Defence Systems", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-29-S1-commons.u155	With the consent of the House at 12.47 the sitting for Monday, August 1st, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny of topical questions.
