ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-11-2016, the minutes of its meeting of 16 November 2016, with regard to the vote on all Parliament's decisions and draft laws: "Only discussion and approval of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2015", "Only discussion and vote of the Draft Budget for the Parliament, financial year 2017", "Amendment of No. 5284/3670 (OJ L 115 A'/23.5.2013) Parliamentary Plenary Session decision, ‘Principle of State Report, financial year 2014’ and ‘Principle of State Balance Sheet, financial year 2014’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Special session of the Parliamentary Assembly dedicated to the day of remembrance and honor for the revolt of the Polytechnic. At today's sitting I will make a brief statement on behalf of the Bureau and then the Prime Minister and my fellow Members appointed by the groups will be given the floor. In particular, will Mr. Gerasios Balaouras, from New Democracy, from the PASOK-DIMAR coalition Mr.Athanasios Theocharopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis, from Potami Mr. George Mavrotas, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos and from the Union of Kentrons George-Dimitrios Karras. On behalf of the government, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will speak Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The Presidents of Parliament may also take the floor if they attend and wish to speak. The speaking time of all speakers will be seven minutes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the House is honoured by the uprising of 17 November 1973 by emphasizing the respect of Parliament, respect for Members in modern history and with our faith in democracy and popular sovereignty. At the same time, Parliament wants to manifest its admiration to the youth and the Greek people who fought on those days of November, giving a key blow to the junta, which, eight months later, in July 1974, collapsed, since for seven years it committed a serial and consistent feud with its fascist aim, seeking to enslave the liberal mind of youth and society. Forty-three years later, and it looks like it was yesterday. As if it were yesterday when the occupation of the Polytechnic began, as if it were yesterday the radio station and the voices of the vocalists, who have remained forever engraved in our memory: "Here's the Polytechnic, here's the Polytechnic! The radio station of the free-fighting students, the free-fighting Greeks.’ As if yesterday were the songs, the slogans, the smiles of a people who were awakening and revolting. As if it were solidarity yesterday, emancipation, overcoming a generation and with a people. As if it were yesterday when the tanks came to sow death and repression, to bend those who fought for collective freedom. As if they were yesterday when we learned the names of our first dead, the victims of the crackdown inside and outside the Polytechnic, at the Ministry of Public Order, where policemen on September 3 killed those protesters, including a seventeen-year-old child, Diomedes Konninos. We express our respect for him. [[Applause]] All this is still present and alive, moving and inspiring. We do not forget, of course, because this is not like yesterday - the betrayal of Cyprus, in the name of libertarian patriotism. If the Polytechnic had managed to drop the junta immediately and not only to sew it, Cyprus would have been saved. The biggest of the junta crimes would not have occurred. Forty-three years is a lifetime. And yet, although the protagonists and witnesses are frustrating, this day continues to excitement, stimulate, military and identify with it thousands of young and young. Forty - three years later, and no one was able to confiscate the day from her meaning. Like every authentic event, he took his place in history. It could not be forged, but it could not be concocted as an event incomprehensible, obscure, foreign, which cannot be repeated. That's why he's still inspiring and frightening. It was and is a fact that accompanies and leads the new generation when it makes invasions in heaven, in democratic and confirmed perfectly realistic Utopia. For how alive this day is, we have only to remember how forty-three years the anniversarys of this day have been honoured in the most lively and unique way, linking the political context with the great moment of the uprising. What other great moment in our history has this possibility, to moved students, students, young people, to connect as a red thread yesterday to today, to mobilize them and cultivate them the majesty of resistance? All our national anniversarys refer to an external enemy, to a conqueror that we managed to defeat and resist. It is the only anniversary that - as much as we call it a junta as a foreigner and a highly xenophobic - it has to do with an internal enemy, the enemies of democracy, the fans of fascism and all those who supervise the freedom and rights of citizens, the professionally false patriots, the nationalists. Today, which is the forty-fourth anniversary, this day is of great importance. The motto of "Psmia - Freedom", which has been the tripartite of the uprising over the years, can be repeated by protesters, sometimes with great passion by a large crowd or sometimes with less participation and emphasis, but what has always shown the living reality is that social justice, equality and freedom remain a lasting project for every generation, for every people on the way to self-determination. Especially today, when the myth of globalisation fades, today, that all promises of prosperity, of the end of history and of ideologies, today, that the echo of the collapse of the Berlin Wall is haunting the new walls, erected everywhere, to prevent people from moving freely, today, when history seems to be pulling out all the language, since no one is stirring, in this fluid landscape of the global crisis, where certainties have been lost, people are looking in the dark, often changing at night. But peace, prosperity, freedom, hope, justice, progress is not obsessed with garbage. They are demands, goals, desires of millions of people where land is. In this landscape on such a day, revoking memories, living ideas and thoughts, crossing personal and collective paths, Parliament and politics must redefine its goals and identity. Testing self-knowledge, testing of humility, testing of solidarity, testing of compassion need us today as much as ever, as well as testing and testing with the constant need to serve democracy. It is often said that the surprise is the only sure law in history. November 17, 1973, was a surprise because it was mixed with the impossible, the impossible, the utopia and the victory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Now the Prime Minister has the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, more than four decades have passed since the reintegration, a time in which in our country they have changed - and continue to change - a great many things. It is, however, a fact that over the years the Polytechnic uprising has remained a constant reference. The Polytechnic seems to stand in time. It wasn't degenerated at an anniversary celebration. It has been honored all these years by a large part of Greek society. It is moved not only by the generation that participated in the leading moment of the anti-dictatorial struggle, not only by the generations that actively took part in the democratic struggles of our people, in the modern-day, democratic struggles of this country, but even young people and especially younger people, who were unborn in those years. For over four decades the Polytechnic anniversary would say that it has a double character. It is a honour event for the twenty-year-old children who were then faced with tanks, but at the same time it is also a vibrant, multi-speaking, mass political event that expresses the democratic demands of the time in question. So the reason why the University still inspires generations of young people, the reason why the anniversary keeps its political content alive is, in my view, obvious. The years may also pass, but the will of society for more and deeper democracy, for social justice and for advancement remains alive and is constantly renewed, depending on the problems and challenges of each age. Today's problems, today's challenges may not have the rawness of authoritarianism and the suppression of the freedoms that the seven-year-old dictatorship had, yet they are challenges that exist and I would say that they are also infinitely more complex today. The revolt of the Polytechnic University in November 1973 was the culmination of student mobilizations that began at a time when apathy towards the dictatorship seemed to dominate Greek society. So at least the dictatorship itself believed. With this apathy at that time, the military regime considered that it could organise the transition to a problematic and completely controlled parliamentism, taking care beforehand, with constitutional institutions that it had created for itself, to perpetuate the occupation, the occupation of real power. It has proved, however, that the demand for democracy cannot be met by measures under restriction. Democracy will either exist or there will be no. Thus, the student's response to the - within many introductorys - "liberation" was the Greek people's demand for real democracy, for free elections to the student clubs, for the withdrawal of the mechanisms of the dictatorship from the universities, for the withdrawal of the compulsory militarisation, which then attempted to neutralize the physical leadership of the student movement. As the students' demands widened and received an overall anti-coding character, both the resonance of the student movement increased, first in the youth of that time, but then at a rapid pace throughout the Greek people. This very development, the manifestation of a palal movement calling for the fall of the dictatorship, tried to block the armoured that came out on the streets on the evening of November 17. But the Polytechnic, despite its bloody ending, laid its seal on political developments. No one imagined a few months before the uprising that the Greek people would come into direct conflict with the regime of colonists. No one imagined that, a few months later, the Uganda regime, in conditions of total isolation, after the bloody crackdown in November, and confirmed by the national crime it committed in Cyprus, would disappear, in order to pave the way to a truly democratic, parliamentary regime. Since then Greece has been going through the longest period of democratic normality in its modern history. Nevertheless, the demand for more democracy, for deeper, more substantial democracy, exists and will exist forever, because democracy is not a hollow term, without content. In the first two decades since Postpopulation, the content of democracy was about safeguarding civil liberties and freedom of speech, the legitimate functioning of all political parties, the abolition of the file and the certificate of social rights, the democratisation of political institutions, the Army and the Security Councils. Later, at the beginning of the era of globalisation, the contents of democracy were about the resistance of society to the customer state, the demolition of consciences, the complexity and corruption, the construction of a rotten establishment, hostile to popular interests. Today, at the time of the crisis, the content of democracy is about defending the social state, restoring social cohesion, the productive and institutional reconstruction of the country, the return of Greece to conditions of popular sovereignty. That is why the struggle for enlargement and deepening democracy will be a lasting struggle. It's a fight that won't stop and it won't stop. The democracy in Greece of the Memorandums and the Committee, we have said so many times, has been incalculablely affected, has deteriorated. Serious rights for workers, students, students, intellectuals and scientists have been affected, whether they are in unemployment or not. This government, our government, has been commanded to get the country out of the crisis with society upright and to break this vicious cycle of wild austerity. Also, in a sense, he took the order to restore the injured democracy in our country at the time of the memoranda. He tried that and he's been trying to do it from the start. The tough battle of the negotiation of the first period was, among other things, a global cry and reveal the ignorance of democracy and the popular choice in the European institutions, for the sake of market laws and stock exchanges. If you want, even the choice of direct recourse to the polls in September 2015, after the agreement, was an act of confidence in the people's crisis and democracy. But, you know, this battle, the battle for democracy, is not just about negotiating, about European and international claims, but also about small and large claims on a number of fronts inside the country. Since January 2015, it was our first concern that no Greek citizen should be deprived of access to public health and public education in our country. We managed in very difficult circumstances this year to fully operate all our schools, and in the most remote area, while we opened schools and took care of thousands of special education teachers, because all children have the right to knowledge. We have also succeeded in getting all Greek citizens, including the weak, free access to medical care, opening the way to more than two million fellow citizens, who, unfortunately, because of the crisis lack insurance, do not have access to public hospitals. We managed to allow all children born in our country and enjoy Greek education to have the same nationality and thus have equal rights. We have given every man the opportunity to live with all the rights of the law with him or the one he loves, by establishing the cohabitation pact. We give for the first time children who go to our schools and have another religion to be able to learn about it, not to feel children of a lower God. We have fought for the defence of democracy, equality, human rights at times very difficult, not only for our country, but for Europe and the international community. We've achieved a lot, but we still have a long way to go. A difficult road, but at the same time for the first time with a visible end of the climb. We will continue to fight until this place returns to stability and regularity. The completion of the second assessment, the consequent debt write-down agreement and the country's accession to the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme will be a milestone. We will move the distance that remains to that, determined to rebuild the economy and society, and to reinstate our people the rights, social protection and the conditions of life and work, which the harsh austerity of the previous years has deprived them of. But at the same time there are only concerns and challenges in our country. The whole world is worried. The wars, authoritarianism, anti-democratic practices, racism and discrimination, where we thought they had been extorted in the past, are almost ruthlessly returning to people's lives. Things around us are changing very rapidly, national and regional security systems are under great pressure, international organisations are trying, but they are unable to cope with the rapid destabilisation of entire areas on the planet. Retreat policy and its replacement from bureaucratic and technocratic supranational mechanisms, most of the time without political legitimacy, dismantling peoples, breaking down social cohesion and shattering democracy. It is therefore a historic task for our country and our people, which is always at the forefront of the struggles for defending all human values and ideals, to fight now, so that people do not return to isolation and authoritarianism. As you will see in both days, with the visit of the President of the United States, our country has already won the respect and recognition of the international community, giving a battle for solidarity and humanism to the forefront of the refugee crisis. Greece and the Greek people have worldwide become synonymous with humanity and solidarity. But not just that. By insisting on the principles of a multidimensional and active foreign policy, Greece from paris becomes a protagonist, on the part of the crisis becomes part of the solution, in so far as the solution cannot be peace, cooperation, security. We will continue on this road, taking advantage of the symbolic load that Greece bears as the place where democratic ideas were born, symbolic load that world leaders are rushing to recognize, with successive visits to our country. The message that we are sending to the world community is that we cannot leave ourselves on a path that leads us to social regression, national retraining, to extreme right-wing embezzlement. The world can only move towards the future with more democracy, more solidarity and social justice. There's no other choice. This message, if you wish, proves it over time and the struggles of our people, with their modern milestones, the fight against the junta and the revolt of the Polytechnic. Everywhere in the world, but also in our country, the struggles for democracy are at the same time struggles for freedom, dignity, justice, transparency and social rights. In these games today, we have been led by the thread of the Polytechnic uprising, which has remained constant forty-three years. So, by holding this thread, we are all today called together to form the new collective mind, the new identity, which will lead us to the next day in the post-crisis era. And I'm optimistic that we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by Parliament's gallery, the sister of the first dead of the events of the Polytechnic School, the seventeen-year-old student Diomedes Komininos, who fell dead on the night of 16 November, by Mrs Harris - Maria Theochropoulou, with her son, Diomedes. His memory and all victims eternity! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor. We shall also give the floor to any President of another parliamentary group who wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the price at the Polytechnic is not hollow and hollow proclamations, and of course the price at the Polytechnics is not molotovs, legends and apricots, as is the price at the Polytechnics. It is an honor to be able to respond today to the modern demands of youth. "Bread - Childhood - Freedom" was then. Works, education, creativity are today. Business, education, creativity. Let's get them one: Business. How did the new Minister of Labour say so before she erased her post? Seven hundred fifty euros. Not even 1 euro less. According to official figures, a hundred thirty thousand workers today get a monthly salary of 100 euros. Eighty-three thousand jobs were lost in October and some jobs were created, six out of ten being 200 and 300 euros. Three hundred and forty thousand employees are paid wages from 100 to 300 euros. I'm talking about mixed amounts. It's official. Of course, youth unemployment remains at around 50%. Five hundred forty thousand long-term unemployed are written to OAS. It is our pitiful first in the European Union. You'll tell me: "And in 2014 how many were there?" So many people. But then, ladies of the majority, you were talking about a humanitarian crisis. You've been talking about the worst winter since 1941. That's what you were saying until you became government and called on young people to resist the new tyranny. That was the phrase Mr Tsipras used in 2012 at the Polytechnic University. But today, when, according to all the surveys, one in four young people - take note - of the age of eighteen to twenty-nine are in a situation of extreme poverty, what should we say? What do we have to say about young scientists working in cafeterias for 100, for 200, for 300 euros a month? Now let's go to the next pillar. We said: jobs, education, creativity. So let's go to education. How you treat education, Mr. Tsipras, it also seems from the faces you choose to place in the Ministry of Education. You started with a man who said we have war with excellence and who never found the courage to apologize for that phrase. And we ended up - take care, for example, only to say - to some graphic figures that repeat slogans of the far right and of the Golden Dawn. We're not going to silence it. What did the new Undersecretary of Education say, going to the Presidential Palace? I don't know if you had the time to hear it. He said it twice. He said: “We are government in a country in possession.” The Deputy Minister of Education said it twice. And obviously, you agree too. Mr. Michalo-knock has said so too. And Professor Antonis Liakos, who is a serious man, of course, is not a Potami. It's SYRIZA. You know Mr. Liaco. You designated him as the chairman of the National Dialogue Committee for Education - he went out immediately and said: 'Do you put this type of guy in the Ministry of Education? Are we all right? Quick dismissal before it becomes an international theme." So who cares about the universities? Who cares about schools? The schools and, in particular, the universities, ladies and gentlemen, have always been at the hands of the parties. So the responsibility for their treatment is not just the New Democracy, which is responsible for it. It's not just PASOK, it's a burden. It's heavy on the entire political system. "Together we demolished them," they could agree and announce party praetorians, cowardly ministers, entrepreneurs of interest. And once something happened in the House and a law was passed with great acceptance - I am talking about the Diamantopoulou Act - the parties took saws, at first the old ones and then you started the sawing. The damage we are doing, ladies and gentlemen, to the economy can at one time be corrected and can be corrected considerably more easily. But the damage to education will take decades and will not be corrected by laws and decrees. Universities are still being treated by the party mechanisms today - and here I look on the left and right in the House - as places where applause is being recruited. We have said from day one - and it is one of our main objectives - that parties should not have party youth in universities. Initiatives, persons, groups, efforts and ideas should be voted on in the student elections. So stop addicting students to customer practices and dealings and don’t teach them to invest in party friendships. In Potami, therefore, despite the mourning, we will insist and say loud once again: 'universities without party subordinates'. Students don't need professional mentors. They need better universities and diplomas with an impact. The students also need Bertsima, they need Sifaki, they need Nehama, they need people in the administration of universities that can get them out of the crisis and they don't need slow-blooded party volunteers. Be careful, from 2008 to 2016, we estimate that a total of four hundred thirty thousand people left Greece. Most of them - and here is the difference with other migration flows of the past - fall under the Brain Drain category, that is, the great brain leak that our country has been living in the last years of the crisis. And we have become our main export product to be human capital. But why are scientists leaving? Did you notice a relatively recent survey? 40% reports that the main reason for pushing them out of Greece is anarchy and corruption. I'm talking about scientists. So I return to the slogan: 'works, education and dignity'. We're already on the third pillar, in merit. We are traditionally a country with many caught chairs, so young scientists think that the game is set up and are being persecuted. Partitioning in public, partitioning in universities, partitioning everywhere. This is the incurable disease of Greece, partitionism. See who the current ministers continue to appoint to draw a conclusion. Of course, there is a great justification, that others did the same, that we balance injustices. But that's not how the country goes. The Greeks, who have left, contribute to the GDP of the host countries about 12 billion, plus 9 billion in taxes. And we have spent these minds who have gone billions to study them. "Professions, education, merits" should therefore be the motto today, to return to the anniversary. "Professionals, education, merit". The danger we have before us... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't know which of the three words bother you. Business, education, creativity. I'll insist. And you will obviously have time to say what words you disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u5	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u6	Business, education, creativity. The 'freedom' has been conquered in your day, which is why I do not mention it. So the danger we have, ladies and gentlemen, is for our youth to reconcile with the decline, for young people to continue to leave, for the party state to continue to triumph in universities, and for citizens to continue to suffer. So people need to understand such days like this, on the day of the rebellion, that the country does not change simply by changing governments. We need to change everything without tearing it down. That was a slogan some young people found two and a half years ago, to change everything, without tearing down the country. And I think this slogan is our own effort, the price for the Polytechnic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u7	The Minister for Education now has the floor on the part of the government. I'll start putting time now. As I said at first, it's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u8	The information we have had, Madam President, has been the speakers for twelve minutes. We had this briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u9	Oh, no. Wrong briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u10	I don't know what the mistake is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u11	I have been in touch with the Bureau for three days. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the anniversary of the Polytechnic uprising is an opportunity to reflect not only our past, but above all our present, the present democracy. Of course the Polytechnic uprising is a symbol that goes beyond its strict historical and geographical definitions. And it is often difficult to distance itself from the intensity of symbolism, in order to distinguish the complex and non-linear ways in which the events of the past are present today. In November 1973 groups of young people, the majority of students and students, began to occupy the field of the Polytechnic with the request to leave the junta. They followed the example of other young people a few months ago at the Law School. The young people of the University had the active and sometimes silent support of many citizens, they faced the indifference of others so many and certainly in the first few days they acted without the generous encouragement of political parties, including those of the Left. However, young people at the Polytechnics School ignored the admonitions of the great, ignored even the members of the neo-liberal organizations of the Left and found themselves together with the greatest challenge of their lives: to succeed in coexisting, discussing, compiling their views and planning their actions. They decided to coexist, and within this furnace they have forged the founding elements of our modern democracy, what they so scare today those who want to pour over the Municipalization, that is to say, those who are terrified of the Polytechnic. Let us not forget the Polytechnic message, and let us not turn it into a memory that is cut off from the present context. Let us not forget the dead, the young children killed in cold blood, the unsurpassed pain of their own people, the despair of those who loved them and the immense grief of their friends and companions. It does not matter that the late apologies of the dictatorial regime are trying to degrade what happened in those few days of November 1973. It doesn't matter that neonazis continue to deny the dead. These negative ones will be ignored by history itself and despised by the upcoming generations. The dead of the seven-year period, those who were tortured, imprisoned and displaced, the young people and young people killed after the three-day rebellion, the free fighters who called on the people to stand up for them in their fight against fascism, those who refused to leave even when the tanks threw the iron door on them, all stay inextricably engraved in our memory. What, though, inspired the struggle of young people in 1973? Nothing less than the decision of resistance to the authoritarianism of the regime and the vision of a just democratic society, a society of brotherhood and freedom. At the center of this vision, however, was education, a vision of democratic education, identified with the future of our society. The Polytechnic anniversary, however, obliges us to underline the deep relationship between education and democracy. Neither is education undemocratic nor democracy without real education. Talking about one without the other is not just meaningless. It is a political position that undermines both goods. The institution of education does not simply convey knowledge. It performs a profound political role, a key to the reproduction of our society. Education reflects the present society and mirrors the way it imagines its future. This profound political aspect of the anti-dritorial struggle try to underestimate hypocritically those who say that the 1973 students were confined to student union demands. The risk of their stimulation was much wider. Young people and young people were struggling with unselfishness and self-renunciation against the reality of an authoritarian present and the dystopia of its reproduction. Changes in education after 1974 were radical and substantial. We cannot fail to mention the introduction of municipal language, the replacement of schools of males and females with mixed schools, the abolition of legs and physical punishment, the introduction of school communities, the democratisation of universities. Changes that were taking place in parallel with the general changes in society, such as recognition of national resistance and family law. I will fully agree with what my predecessor, Nikos Philis, said last year, that the defence of democracy is education and that her heart is the public school. We have a duty to trust and constantly improve our education by supporting our educational institutions at all levels. The school today needs to be a democratic school that prepares people in the world. Citizens, in other words, who will be able to incorporate into their thinking parameters not only the direct scope of their experience, but major global problems. It is imperative that we prepare citizens who are resistant to uncertainty, who can in these difficult conditions resist the dark charm of irrationalism and totalitarianism and become defenders of democracy and solidarity, equality and participation. But is our school democratic, our universities? To the extent that the culture of tolerance, debate and arguments prevails, they are democratic. To the extent that, however, the main elements of the daily life of our educational institutions are the search for easy solutions, authoritarianism and a bureaucraticized transmission of knowledge, they are not democratically. This is why the fundamental role of teachers, who are the catalyst in all of us, is emerging for more democracy in all areas of social life. The Polytechnic anniversary usually brings our students and students to mind. Today, let our thoughts include their teachers. However, the essence and importance of the Polytechnic message is in its update. Since 1973, much has changed worldwide. Our society is facing new challenges. The prevalence of the neoliberal model as a dominant model of perception and interpretation of reality led Europe to a crisis of giant dimensions. The growing poverty and the social exclusion of large parts of our societies, the steady increase in right-wing both socially and politically, the wars and millions of refugees are testing the strengths of democracy in Europe. Social assemblies have been seriously affected, leading to fragmentation and confrontation, without being able to give a convincing hope and a clear vision to citizens who increasingly feel the danger and experience the reality of their social marginalisation. Democracy in Europe is being tested very hard. The Polytechnic message as a message of a lasting struggle for the defence of democracy remains unfortunately tragically opportune. The circumstances since 1973, as we have said, have undoubtedly changed. However, the request remains timely. It is not only wrong but also dangerous to take what has been conquered at the time as a pretext today. Democracy needs a lasting defence, both as a citizen and as a social practice. The stake today is more critical than ever. We are called not only to defend our wounded democracy, but also to defend the human face of our societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u13	Although it will be a representative of SYRIZA again - this is the turn of the Rules of Procedure - Mr Balaurras has the floor on behalf of the Radical Left coalition. Mr. Balaura, you've been whispering for twelve minutes. Make sure you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position with the lyric of a song: 'The wind is chasing us nowadays and chasing us'. Unfortunately it seems that these days too are after us by the micropolitics, if you listen to the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis. But let us go to ours, for which we have today been called upon to reflect on and to reflect on. The anniversary of the Polytechnic insurrection is a celebration of uprising, a celebration of resistance, victory, a victory of the impossible. It's a success, a proof of the optimism of will. What was the polytechnic? It was peaking, it was mature of a long, seven-year collective struggle with many beds: Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Jannana, and with many exhibits, students, students, workers and farmers. All these exhibits were mostly young and young. The Polytechnics is a historical example of the theory of act, as a great thinker said. Since the first moment of the dictatorship, we have had prisons and exiles of thousands, mainly communists and left-wings. There were the first resistance organizations and actions such as the creation of the PPA, the "Democratic Defence", the organization and heroic sacrifice of Alekos Panagoulis, the youth of the SAD, the "Rig Ferraios", the CNE, the AEM, the PAK, the "Movement of 20 October". We also have a partner and friend here in this movement. Hard, unrelenting fight against authoritarianism, raw violence, deprivation of basic rights and freedoms and against corruption, a great corruption that existed then in the dictatorship. The result was then to expel the country - and this must be noted - from the Council of Europe in 1969. At another time - and I suggest it - we could have an event in the House on the anniversary of the dictatorship and say these things. The consortia of the tortured became manifesto of freedom and radicalism, of moral honor and dignity. They were blaming us younger people who later called us bums. Through illegal radios, 'Deutsche Welle', London, Paris, 'voice of Truth', and radio microwaves came the messages of 'May of '68', the anti-war movement for Vietnam, for Che, for 'Spring of Prague'. Other farther liberatory rivers were added together, such as the example of EAM, the movement for democratic normality, the '1-1-4', 15% for education. In the course, an explosive amyloma of the studying youth with intellectuals and art was built. Every moment of the movement were connected with the movement of intellectuals and art, whether it was preceded or then. They broke censorship. I would like to mention one example, to remember: Eight hundred writers, Greek and foreigners, especially those who had their surname on "ski", that is, the Soviets, were banned, but even the "Eirini" of Aristophanes was banned, because it had the word "peace"!- Oh, my God! And we're going to the Seferi's statement, a huge dagger in 1967. The " Eighteen Texts", a great attempt to break censorship, the poems of Elytis and Richos, the collection of the six poets, the texts of Frankia, Tachtis, Samarakis, Plaskovitis, the masterpiece "Manifesto", the "Clot" of Mars Alexander. In the theatre: Kun, Skourtis, Kabanell's "our great circus" with Karazi and Kazakos, the free theatre. Here I would like to say that in those days in the occupation of the Polytechnic, many theatre artists decided to perform performances within the Polytechnic. Finally, the tanks came in and stopped this great and serious energy of this bond. Cinema: "Representation" and "Mades of '36' by Theodoros Angelopoulos, "Eydom" by Damian, "What did you do to the Thanasis war" by Katsourides with the wonderful Thanasis Veggos, the Greek viopal and resistance, "The Consul of Anna" by Bulgarians with Anna Vaguena, which we have a composer and this one, "Joannis the violent" by Marcetakis and foreign films that were tossing us, such as the "Froules and blood" by various events. And finally the music: Theodorakis, Savvopoulou, Xararchakos, New Kyma, Maria Dimitriadis, the concerts of Markopoulos with the unforgettable voice of Nikos Xylouris, who were also protesting and chasing by the police. And of course, reading: classic, Altuccher, Mandell, Pouldzas, Marcuse, Gramsey. The development of the autonomous dictatorial movement at the schools was embraced by scientific collectives, such as the Greek-European Youth Movement, EIN, the Study Society of Greek Problems, the Baharian Gallery, the Piraeus "Into" with intellectual Europeans who beat the dictators into the nest of the beast, such as Gunter Grass and Joan Robinson, significant nurseries of resistance. At the same time, the local clubs were created: Cretans, Continentians, Chios, Elias Achaeus, who have offered the students the greatest to bash. Then all of this brought storming events, incisions. The funeral of Seferis in 1971, the request of the free elections in 1972, the "Study of the twelve of the ASE" in 1973, followed by it was an intersection then for the student movement immediately followed by Medicine, Panteion, Industrial. The first mass event at a university for disciplinary was the 12th of ASAE, in February 1973. The first occupation of the University of Polytechnic, which was not mentioned, was covered by the next events in February 1973, with the violation of any asylum there was then by the police, arrest and conviction of eleven students. Students' action: With the campaign, they hoped they would leave the student movement headless and yet our comrades entered the race and took, with much better success than men, the movement in their hands. They covered the gap that the junta thought would bring about. And last one was the three counties of law. If there was no University, I believe that there would be the third, at least, occupation of law. And one fact that was noted and we must present and play an important role was Papandreou's memorial at the beginning of November of '71. More and more were not just student requests - something the Prime Minister said - but they were political requests. If we had time to read a piece - a quote from the law student's oath, you would see that they were putting'reverse the regime', they claimed freedom, in-depth democracy. So all the roads led to the great resistance jump. The occupation of the Polytechnic was a complete freedom, fellowship, hope, for a new, different world. In the well-known slogan "Psomi - Childhood - Freedom" and the three pieces of the slogan are tied together, interconnected. It draws this motto the passive attitude of the large parts of the Greek people. A motto, perhaps by Spartacus, perhaps by the French Revolution, certainly by the Greek Revolution. I read to you what Solomon said: "I have another in mind that I have freedom and language?" And the model of the organization in the occupation, with medicine, cooking, and above all the station, reveals a disgusting, autonomous - I repeat - movement. But did the tanks give the solution? First picture: They did bring back fear, blood, pain, death, the collectives and organizations, the universities were devastated. But behind this seemingly there was a serious breach of the junta, the coup d'Ioannides coup and the dictatorship, which eventually brought about the betrayal of Cyprus. It became very hostile to the international environment, changed in depth and Greek exiles throughout Europe played an important role. Most importantly, however, there has been a complete demilitarisation of the regime by the Greek people. What Pouldzas called a 'democratic break' was carried out. Lessons from the Polytechnics School: The moral, political, ideological bond was completed with excellence. Fight from all political sides, I have to say, but with a leading force the plural left. Especially then, the Polytechnic was recorded as defeat, but it was a virtual defeat. It involved developing subversion cells, victory seeds, and as such it was recorded in world history. It's not just our story, the Polytechnic. It's ours too, but it's global, because history is written - and I repeat the word "written" - in front of the back. And the recent, very recent events of our political history have this feature. It was a tactical defeat. But it certainly wasn't a strategy. It was an unfinished uprising. It ruptured the correlation between the social forces. With the post-population that existed, it broke into authoritarianism, in the state of emergency of the three decades after the civil war, it normalised the perverse political system, which separated citizens into mixes and nationalists, it raised issues of national independence, and, finally, it was a global example of how a people again become free. I should like to say a word about the 'family' that despises and plays various ideological games. Indeed, the generation takes the name, but no generation is single. The generation of Resistance has Glezo, but it also has Georgalas. What can one say? There are, of course, snooping and cozy and opportunistic. But the color is given by many, the orphans, the integers. The new social relation has raised and won issues of democracy. The Greek Constitution, which exists today, is one of the most progressive constitutions in Europe, if not all of the world, despite the fact that we want to change many things, which, in particular, became extremely conservative, such as the Law on the liability of Ministers. You'll see these along the way. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] If you yell, to finish, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u15	However, the twelve minutes have passed. You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. They helped to bring prosperity to the people, to have democratisation of education, to develop reasoning and movements. But the old political system, which has simply been restored by maintenance instincts, has not been collectively overthrown and has largely been due to the sufferings of the Greek people. In the end, however, the cry of the Polytechnics will be justified, which is constantly extinguished - not only in the anniversaries. Why? Because the losers are the ones that never happened for today and tomorrow. He wants virtue and bold freedom, as the great poet said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u17	Mrs Kerameos, Member of the State, is now speaking by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's anniversary is a day of inspiration, a day of reflection, but also a day of reflection for every citizen of the country. Forty-three years after the Polytechnic uprising remains a symbol of fight against authoritarianism, a struggle for democracy. The young people who were closed down those days at the Polytechnic were resisting their word, with cartage and courage, endured persecution and adversity. Forty-three years after the Polytechnic uprising proves that desire for democracy, for freedom, for social justice is stronger than the fear of repression, it is stronger even in fear of death. Forty - three years after the Polytechnic uprising proves that there are values for which one can fight at risk even for his own life. And this is the absolute moment of human moral elevation, this is ultimately the absolute moment of freedom. The Polytechnics Today symbolises and should remind you of something more time-consuming and something pan-human that the struggle for democracy is a constant claim. The young people then resisted, vindicated and managed to restore democracy and we all enjoy the fruits of that struggle today. But that's not good enough. It is our duty to claim better quality of democracy every day, to claim practical application, to the everyday life of the ideals of freedom, equality of opportunity, solidarity and justice, as reflected in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that democracy has proved to be resilient in the years of post-population. Postpopulation was a period of democratic stability and relative social well-being for broad social strata. Migration was the period of construction of a stable parliamentary democracy. It is also a fact that democracy, despite the opposing and noisy voices about the State, has also proved to be resilient during the economic crisis that we have been experiencing over the last seven years. However, one cannot question the fact that democracy has been affected and taken into account, both at the procedural level, at the level of legislation - to remind one another of the acts of legislation, to recall the systematic legislation now in the form of urgency or urgency - as well as at a level essential to the extreme rhetoric towards the institutions of the country and even to the use of institutional tools for their own benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, I could now, from this step forward, take the opportunity to speak about topicality, to respond to what the Prime Minister said. I won't. Today is a day of honor, it is not a day of pre-election speech, it is not a day of conspiracy of a party audience. Let it be the first message that we will keep from today's anniversary, that the struggle for democracy is lasting and that it can and must take place even within what appears to be a normality. Because the sirens of populism and demagogy, which we see articulated within normality, may also be a serious wound to democracy. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, a second message that symbolises today's anniversary of the revolt of the young people of the Polytechnic, and that is the very power of the new generation. The polytechnic youths were students, they were young people who wanted to educate, young people who dreamed of a better future and who had the courage to claim this better future. They did not only claim to overthrow the regime, dream and claim something much bigger and high-level, to build a different Greece with democracy, justice and independence. The Polytechnic is the symbol of unity and the symbol of unity, which defies every difficulty to give flesh and bone to its vision of a different world, of a society of justice, freedom and solidarity, which will share equal men and women, citizens of the world without discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, what students dream of in November 1973 also dream of today. But today we see our young people leaving Greece, not claiming Greece the best future, looking for this best future elsewhere, outside our country. The educated young people, the qualified ones, who are able to produce a high product, a high-value product, young people with university degrees, young people with brilliant doctorates, many of whom have had jobs in our country and yet have chosen to leave, seeking a better future outside our country and that, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most serious aspects of the problem, the disappointment that young people feel today has resulted in despair. Young people today turn their back on politics, turn their back on the representatives of politics, and that is something that all of us, the political staff of this country, should be concerned about. And ladies and gentlemen, we all have a share of responsibility for this. We all have a responsibility for the ageing democracy, we all have a responsibility to bring young people back to policy, bring young people back into claim, bring young people back to hope that they can claim a better future, a better tomorrow. It is our duty and our highest debt to make the new generation again ahead of the expectations of a society, a nation with a long journey. The new historical cycle to be built for the new generation cannot be built without the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen - and I close - let this be the double message of today's memory: on the one hand, the fight for the quality of our democracy must be lasting, it must be inconsistent, even within a normality and, on the other, that only by restoring the confidence of young people in relation to the institutions of governance, only by restoring this relationship with young people can real progress be made in the country and that our country can come out of the generalised crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u19	Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Member of the State of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, our memory must be restrained in time. Today, it is forty-three years since the student uprising of the Polytechnic School, since thousands of young people have chosen to resist all their forces in the dictatorship of the colonists and in its authoritarianism, releasing the long-term demands of an entire people for freedom, democracy and social justice in their struggle. We are now inspired by that youth's need to overthrow a suffocating situation. We recognize the exceptional importance of the legacy of the anti-distant struggle, where its unselfishness and dynamics surpassed reluctance and misgivings. We remember today all those who fought against the seven-year-old dictatorship, experienced torture, imprisonment and exile. We honor those who "go" and those who live between us. We pay tribute to those people at the time who put collective from the individual. Because that is the message of those years, which should become a guide for today's new generation and for an optimistic tomorrow. The outcome of the test between memory and oblivion always seals the societies and determines their future. In the case of the insurrection of all of us's Polytechnic debt, it is the memory that always accepts the oblivion. Memory, however, should not be confined to anniversary reports. Consistency in memory must be the beginning and hope for a lasting, incompatibility with the prevalence of peace, the right to education and work and social justice. We must draw strength from the past and extend the struggles of the generation of the Polytechnic. At this difficult time in our country today, trapped in a prolonged and deep crisis, this historical legacy of youth struggles is offered as an opportunity of collective self-awareness, as an opportunity to rethink and create new struggles. Today, acquired rights are being challenged at work, education, health and social security. So vigilance is needed. At the same time, all democratic citizens have a duty to oppose and remove all fascist, racist and xenophobic traits that appear in Greek society. Democracy has nothing to do with neo-nazi practices. The message of the anti-Declaratory struggle must mark the unity of the people and the progressive forces for a direct change of policies to exit the country from the crisis, defend the weak social strata and strengthen the institutions of democracy. Collective action, national consultation, national line to exit the crisis. That's the message. In this change the new generation must have a dominant say and a role. I heard the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, he is not present in the Chamber at the debate that is taking place on the 1973 memory day. I would like to stress the following: of course, there are the challenges of today. However, the question is what the challenges of today are, ladies and gentlemen. I am almost the same generation as Mr Tsipras, but I have another perception of what today's challenges are. It is indeed the longest period - as has been said - of democratic normality. And it is a good fact that this has been heard today, with what has been heard in previous years. Today we need productive and institutional reconstruction, said the Prime Minister. Of course, the question is what we are doing about it. There is nothing to do with the country's productive reconstruction. However, it is the country's productive reconstruction that will trigger change to overcome the crisis. He took over, said Mr. Tsipras, the government to restore wounded democracy within the memoranda. And the question is: how? With a heavier, heavier memorial he signed? Mostly, what we need to do is to stop the causes that have brought us to the memorials. And the causes that have brought us to the memorials have a name and period of governance. And for all this, over the 2004-2009 governance period, we hear nothing. It has been heard that recourse to the polls in September 2015 is a practical demonstration of this process. In essence, however, recourse to the September polls was the practical proof that there are no easy solutions, that we cannot move on from illusions today to the way problems are multidimensional. And, of course, the issue of health and education should rightly enter the forefront. What is being done - and the Greeks and Greeks listen to us - does not improve the situation, neither in education nor in health. We cannot hear that the books are on time today, and this has been done in previous years. It is a question of having education, which will trigger people and be educated, but also of being able to relate to the labour market. The same is true of medical care, which is all we have never had before is the notice for the recruitment of the same nurses, which we are constantly hearing and which is not done. This is not how problems are solved today. Of course, the issues of debt and quantitative relaxation are very important. However, progressive reforms are needed in our country to overcome the crisis. They need investments, to bring growth, to change the distorted consumer model to a healthy, productive growth model. Any racist discrimination should also be avoided. We welcomed the fact that the cohabitation pact was established, which was set up mainly because of our firm attitude. Because, as you well know, the coup d'état at that time did not have the votes to establish a coup d'état. I don't say it for historical reasons. I say this because Mr Tsipras mentioned this and why we are now talking about the relevant committees and they are heard again by the co-pilot racist views for not equating the symphony of the symphony at the workplace, not to equate all the rights of all citizens. To say things the way they are, to say truths at last to resolve these issues, to move forward without measuring political costs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context the Polytechnics School is here to show that our country has the potential to overcome the crisis, as long as we believe it and as long as we believe in the new generation. Now that the struggle for social justice, for solidarity, is more timely than ever, now that the new generation is plagued by the crisis and unemployment, which sees its prospects shrinking, its dreams being lost, now the generation of this crisis must not prove to be a lost generation. On the contrary, by exploiting the experience of post-population, it must stand up against the climate of generalized depreciation, claiming a better future, which will not be sealed by the desperation of unemployment, social exclusion and marginalisation. In order to achieve this, it must not be subjected to false dilemmas and populism, from wherever this populism comes. So the distance between the visions of the Polytechnic and the present, extremely hard, reality, must in no way lead us to underestimate the democratic and social conquests of the post-government period. The new generation grew into the enlightening of post-political stability, armed with knowledge. Now, however, it is being pushed harder by the harsh effects of the crisis and it is being confronted with dealing with this distorted consumer model in which it grew up. So no one disputes the current crisis of values and visions, the result of the economic and social crisis. This crisis, however, cannot be an alibi to resign from the quest for life, for inertia or indifference. We must draw up a way for the new generation, with the new generation. To transform this vision into a national strategy, a national plan for exiting the crisis. A number of slogans and messages, ladies and gentlemen, which have reflected the real facts of the anti-ritarian resistance, today maintain their topicality. But the contents are changing. That's what I want to stress. The slogan "Psamis - Education - Freedom" has another meaning. There is poverty today and it is intense. It leads to the lack of basic needs for many of our fellow humans. In education, there must be a radical change, an overall reform, not just talking about individual issues. It must be linked to the labour market and new jobs created. Of course, it must be possible to regain its meaning, to form integrated personalities and to equip young people with mental and mental supplies so that they can know the reality, to be able to interpret it multifaceted and, of course, to fight to change it. To remove the economic deadlock and get the country out of the memoranda and dogmatic austerity programmes, a sound productive model, a new productive reconstruction plan, cost savings, no new wage and pension cuts, so that the country no longer produces economic dead ends, is not constantly in dogmatic austerity programmes, not to produce deficits, to become competitive, to become productive, to create jobs with social cohesion and sustainable development within the European Union. To give freedom within the European Union to institutions, we ask, because this will help resolve the problems. What cannot be done is a comitology, which is outside of what is happening in the European Union, outside the European acquis. This cannot be accepted and must not be accepted either in the next time in terms of irrational requirements, such as working and collective redundancies, claims that had been prevented in previous years and must now be prevented. To conclude, I just want to say that today we need to take strength from what had become in those days at the Polytechnic University, with passion for a better future. And, within us, with the spark of change that must and can become a flame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u21	He now has the floor of MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece and F Vice-President of the House, George Lambroulis. Mr. Lambroulis, come on, because with time today, we've been overtaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u22	Do not start with me, Madam President, the remarks. What I have to say is, of course, that I might say it over time. I've made it quite clear from the beginning. And since we started like this, allow me, Madam President, a comment before going to my main speech. The Prime Minister's presence in the House today is hypocritical, provocative and outweighs every limit of political affiliation. The Prime Minister didn't come today to honor the Polytechnic and its fighters. He came looking for an alibi for the tennis he made two days ago in the United States of America and their politics. He came as a paraphrase to alter and distort the message and slogans of the Polytechnic uprising. It came to enjoy the impressions created by the image of the Ministerial Council of the "first time - supposedly - left" to applaud with Glyxburg the reports of the US and NATO contribution to democracy, of these forces, which supported the junta in Greece, which also supports today's wars and interventions around the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the uprising at the Polytechnic School in November 1973 is a historic event, a milestone of the popular struggle in one of the difficult times of the modern history of our people's movement and as a landmark marks resistance and irresponsibility in the consciousness of the people and youth. A popular uprising, whose boundaries do not fit in the narrow context of urban democracy, which can change the cloak of parliamentary governance with fascist regimes and juntas, that is, the dictatorship of the monopolies, but with the same aim: power over the working class and the people for the perpetuation of exploitation. This popular uprising had a message of political, subversive, anti-berialist against the US and NATO. It was not only the student uprising, as the system apologies show, but there is a characteristic that is a qualitative element and from which experience comes out today. The association of the student movement with the labour movement which played an important role in the uprising itself, as well as in its impact on subsequent developments. The Polytechnic insurrection was not just a massive and sudden battle eruption, it came from nowhere rather than was the result of a fascinating and multiformal struggle and political conflict, which has evolved into a decisive bloody conflict with the military-democratic dictatorship. He had victims. He went through history as a leading event of the anti-Ditectoral struggle of the Greek people and their youth. That is why it is rightly honored and maintained in memory as one of those inspiring racing throws. The fact that the fight of the Polytechnic has not been completed with regard to its objectives, which have taken beyond the restoration of civil parliamentary democracy, because the correlation of power has not allowed it, does not in any way abide by its offer and its value. On the contrary, the conclusions of this popular uprising are very useful, both for today's and future struggles. The seven-year-old anti-dictatorial struggle of the people and the unrest of the Polytechnics have shown that no reactionary mechanism, however powerful and eternal, can be measured with the superiority of the organized labor movement, which, through its decisively organized action, can put its own seal on developments, impose its right with its own power, without waiting for saviors. With the peak today of celebration we honor those and those who took part in the anti-Declaratory struggle, who remained standing in security prisons, did not break out of the torture at EAT-SH in Bubulina, in prisons, exiles and militia, at every place of testimony, the communists who took the lead in the struggle of the people and youth, in the anti-Declaratory struggle, the members and officials of the JRC and of the CNC, his friends and followers, who, with their heroic and inexorable attitude, showed that the fighter has inexhaustible powers and tolerances when he is determined and put his party, the fight, the right of the struggle. We also call on the workers, the youth, to honour the heroic uprising at the Polytechnic and the dead of the anti-ditectoral wrestling, to participate massively in celebrations and on the way to the American Embassy. We call on every progressive man, the working people's movement, to object to the counterfeiting of history, to those who distort the essence of the heroic uprising in November 1973, who hide the great contribution of the JRC and the JRC to the anti-ritarian struggle, to isolate the modern praisers of the junta, the Nazis of the Golden Dawn who is hosting and slandering the struggle of the people and youth, but also those who spill the poison of racism, fascism, anti-communism, especially today, forty-three years from the heroic uprising at the Polytechnic University, in a critical period where we have the full attack on his rights with the memorials but also the new measures that are coming, which lead him to poverty, unemployment and deprivation, and on the other side of our country's own coup détététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététététété In these circumstances, the SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état brings enormous responsibilities, as under the pretext of geostrategic upgrading involves our country even more deeply in the imperialist competitions, even trying to extinguish all kinds of imperialist organisations as factors of peace, security and stability in the region, putting the Greek people at risk. In view of the dangerous developments. We call on the people to think and look at things, to reject the campaign of deception, misinformation that hopes for its subjection, to resist the organized effort of manipulation organized by the SYRIZA - ANEL and the other urban parties, on the occasion of the visit by the outgoing President of the United States on the days of the heroic uprising of November 1973 against the military dictatorship, which had the support of the US and NATO, a visit presented as a rescue visit to our country, when Obama himself hated new dangerous projects against our peoples in the region. Indeed, the challenge towards the bleeding people has no limits, since the US Government is thanking the US for their intervention in the matter of debt and negotiation in the third memorandum. Is it not true that President Obama, along with the other imperialists of NATO and the European Union, has spread war, misery, poverty, refugee in dozens of countries in the world? This is why the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the first time left, is the first for dirty jobs, after attempting to smuggle the people's struggles, while in practice it continues more fanatically to the policy of previous urban governments and follows a consistent attitude of representation of the great monopolistic interests and the imperialist associations, cultivating subordination, but also when necessary, authoritarianism with the stubborn bans on the people to protest. This is why our people should treat as rivals and not as friends all these representatives of capital from abroad, who merge with Greek pluralism and its political representatives, each time preparing new unpopular bonds. For the so-called 'allies', our people have known them well and paid them very expensively. It is time to be vigilant and fight against imperialist plans and any Greek involvement. The attempt at homogeneity under so-called national objectives should fall into the void. There is no relationship between the interests of the monopolies and the interests and needs of the Greek people, who are lurking every day under the increasingly difficult conditions created by their anti-French politics. The crisis, unemployment, poverty, wars will exist, as long as power is in the hands of capitalists, while Greece is bound by the imperialist NATO and European Union organisations. No matter how difficult the conditions of fighting today, no matter how negative the correlation of power, our people have a great deal of power in their hands and it will be released, to the extent that it realizes its right and interests. Forty-three years after the Polytechnic School, the JRC continues to fight to bring the people and youth to the fore, to build a strong popular movement with anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly line, to get rid of poverty, oppression and the suffering of the crisis. With the JRC strong support of the people, with the sacrifice of the Communists, the offering and the pioneering action as always in the history of the people's movement, the way to emancipate the people from the ideology and politics of the parties of the system and the European Union can be opened. These are the prerequisites for breaking the fatalism cultivating the system, for the organization of the people to win a victory with experience. The JRC, today, calls for coalition and coexistence, so that the popular alliance between the working class, the poor people of the city and the countryside, young people and women, the popular families for radical overthrowing, the socialisation of monopolies, the deletion of all debt, the abolition of memoranda, the release of the country from the European Union and NATO, all the imperialist associations, for the working people's power.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u23	I shall now give the floor to the President of the Group of the European Central Bank, Mr Vassilis Leventis. Mr Leventis, I will say for you seven minutes, recalling that the Bureau is not decorative because Mr Lambroulis, although Vice-President, has surprised me that he will speak as much as he pleases. Then we also ask the Members to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u24	Are you addressing me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u25	You told me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u26	You're the President-in-Office. I'm sorry you're the President-in-Office, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u27	Yeah, and you said you'd talk as long as you want. All right, then everyone's gonna talk as long as they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u28	I didn't say that thing. I said I'd get over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u29	We're decorative here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u30	Don't cause now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u31	No, no one obeys anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u32	...because you gave the right. So the other representatives have more chance of overcoming the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u33	That doesn't mean I won't make calls. And no one answered me like that. Come on, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u34	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am pleased to be with you again. I don't know how we manage to speak so thinly. Over a month we haven't talked here. I do not know how we manage and there is more action outside Parliament and less action in Parliament. I do not know how far the work is being done and how much progress is being made by the committees. I wish it could be done instantly. However, we must know that the less this Parliament works, the less there is democracy. That is my view. We are talking today about the Polytechnic Day. It's a big day. It's a day when we glorify people who broke their breasts with no prospect, no confidence at all. Students from poor families in the country suggested their breasts toward a organized junta, who junta what he did? He was retiring due to study and there was a chance that the student’s family would be destroyed. So there were people who risked everything and had nothing. Those who have fought and given their blood and their lives have done it for democracy. We have arrived today at a time when you tell me how many are risking everything without anything. Ask yourself. Is there such a sanctity nowadays? Because it is sacred to be zero, to be taken by the junta to take you to Alexandroupolis as a soldier, and you still say, "Outside the junta", to be imprisoned, to be persecuted. Of course, the seasons change, you will also tell me parties that say "Outside the Americans", now they think that once an American president arrived it was an achievement. Many in the SYRIZA and the JRC have fought for many years against the United States. Now it appears as a success that Obama came here and spoke against austerity. A president's visit is something even in the last few weeks before his fall. But not forget that the one who came is a President who was disapproved in the last elections. He was actively involved in the fight for Clinton and disapproved. Because I'm sure Trump was not voted for by the American people, he just voted against a elite created in Washington, which is permanent and puts each president's wife down later. They already say that Michelle Obama should join a candidate for the presidency. That elite went to vote against the American. I was in America forty days ago, and I saw just people, cucumbers, employees, waiters, and they were in favor of Trump, and I was worried. I say: “Do you not see that he is incoherent in what he says? It has no structure, and so on, and the answer was: 'From the others what have we seen?' That was the answer from the ordinary people. Of course, because the polls were saying that Clinton was coming out too, I thought Clinton was going out, I thought they'd be afraid to vote for him. In any case, did you see how much things change? Some against the Americans once fought, they did almost daily protests outside the US Embassy and now we expect the United States to press for the debt. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I wonder. What can they push for the debt? Since you know that the debt has gone to the states and 1 euro to give Merkel, every parliament needs a decision. Three times I've told the Prime Minister in private. Why are you projecting the paper that will reduce the debt? Show other cards, extensions, discounts, investors come, and ask for opportunities rather than money. Why so much do you insist on reducing the debt, since you are well aware that you will fail there? Mr. Tsipras has not answered me. In fact, instead, when Obama came here, and while the newspapers said that all political leaders will attend the events, Elassona Opposition excluded it from them and called on the leaders, ninety and eighty-eight-year-old prime ministers, you called for judges, ambassadors and not the Chiefs of Parliamentary Groups. You hid behind the strict protocol. So what would it bother me to be, genome and Theodorakis, three chairs still at dinner? Would Mr. Tsipras miss something? I did not understand that, ladies and gentlemen. Is there any fear, does the foreign leader learn that we have some other different opinions? Because we believe - and this differs from New Democracy and SYRIZA - that if pathogens are removed, the country of orthopaedics. They don't need loans or memos. Will you tell me, "What do you say, Mr. Leventis? If a bond expires, how will we pay it without loans?" I have this view that multiple pensions should be removed and all pensions removed, that the wealthy pensions should be removed, that we should identify the eighty thousand cases, which have an income above EUR 3 000 a month, and that we should find the slow wages that exist in the public, the municipalities and the ECHO - that is what foreigners mean when they call 'cut costs' - to make parliamentarians out of three hundred two hundred. Do we all need in this Chamber? If we need to make them four hundred. But I think it can run a 10 million-dollar state with two hundred-dollars, so we don't get to be a guild. Some corrections must be made, for example to reduce the Members' wages in half. I know the Hall doesn't want to. The President of Parliament himself, speaking at a radio station after my last speech, told Mr Hazinikolau that he did not agree with the reduction in the Members' wages or with the reduction in the number of Members. Seems like that. He's making some friendly efforts, I have no objection. But here they don't just need effort. Here we need a result and we need to bring society and the people together in politics, new blood into politics. New blood isn't the ones Mr. Tsipras put on, or I put the new ones. I mean new blood that has different opinions. Because if diversity is only out of the Chamber, we're going to bad developments. If we succeed in expressing something homogeneous, about similar, and the diversity of being only out of halloween, we will have bad developments. I am not plundering when I ask for a reduction in the number of Members. It's a debt. When the metropolitans eat thousands of people, when the mayors feed and so many poor people, when they operate social grocery stores, I think there is a debt and political leadership with its own sacrifices, to set an example. We have been able for many years to drive the world away from us. Shouldn't we bring him back to this world? In this context, we are making the proposals. It was written in the papers that I had a flirt with Mr. Tsipras. The truth is that only on the matter of mere analogousness is we get together. In fact, I pointed out to him at our last meeting: “Don’t go through any more bills with a hundred and fifty - three. Try to reach a consensus. Didn't the House vote for the simple analogy? You insist on consensus. What do you want the bills with a hundred and fifty-three and half telling the other half traitors? He tried constructive dialogue and voted for the bills of two hundred, two hundred forty. Try this!’. Instead of doing so and seeking it, he returns, he closes into his crab again and returns to the precedent of the simple analogy with the hundred and fifty three. We will not have a good outcome, because the economy will be very bad, ladies and gentlemen. You may also have your information from Europe, but you will allow me to have it too. Europe responds, this will be the answer to Mr. Tsipras: "We agree, proceed with reforms and in 2018, if the level of debt is an obstacle to going out on the markets, then we will look into it." That is Europe's response. Mr. Tsipras would be naive if he waited for a different answer. So what will the House do after that? And the reforms must go ahead. Do you know why? Let us say to the workers, who all parties say 'no reforms!', supposedly because they protect them within the labour market, do not lose their achievements. The unemployed? Are we doing anything for the unemployed? Oh, no! Explosive! The unemployed don't do anything. No party has an opinion on the unemployed, but they are saying vaguely that there will be growth and jobs for the unemployed. How long can that last? How much can an unemployed person live by eating at the metropolitans? How much? How can a government sit in memorial and constantly cut wages, pensions and new taxes? How much can he sit down? Where does this thing lead? Do you have any opinion that something's coming to give you a push? Oh, no. So this is a downward thing. It's a matter of endurance of society and government. I believe that this House was wrong and that the political leaders were wrong, which we did not make a large government of two hundred and fifty seats. The big government, ladies and gentlemen, did not ask for it from a whim. I asked for it because, where I was in touch with the outside, I was told that there was a need for political stability. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group may be solid, but it also had losses. He had Panagoulis who was independent, had Catrivanos who simply handed over its seat, he has Mr. Kammenos, who says that if the Archbishop tells him, he's gonna drop the government. Do you think when that sounds out they're happy and ready to bring their money? Do you really think so? I don't think so. The country's walking away from me. If the people who lead the parties are not concerned at this time, the country will be destroyed. I'm telling you this in person. In relation to what you say: 'Would we slowly go up and the people judge us in 2019 and the others', of course, a government can reach 2019, but when it has so little acceptance, can it last? So if that 15% of polls turn 10 percent, can they? I turn to the New Democracy. Even if elections are held and with Mrs Gennimata forming a government - because there is no other party to give support to the New Democracy - it will also be a government of fifty-three. Will he bring investments? Oh, no. So we are fighting two egos, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis, to destroy the country. I'll say something about what they say PSE. It says: 'We have reached a consensus'. I was asking for a consensus...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, with all due respect to finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u36	I'm sorry, but I haven't talked in a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u37	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u38	The Polytechnics, Mr President, the Polytechnics!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u39	I won't have much time. Don't worry. All the other times, I have fully respected the time. I meant, with the consent of the PSE, that we should give the ERC all the responsibilities and monitor them. This is something I did not understand. Will the PSE be consulted with parties, Parliament and the government on how many permits they will be? So we didn't give the PSE all the responsibilities? The Constitution says 'all responsibilities in the PSE'. It was said here, on the same day that the representatives of the Conference of Presidents voted, that there would be consultation between parties, parliament, government and PSE. So, right now, does anyone know how many licenses they're going to give? Tomorrow if there's a dimension between the ERR? Unless we've put such people into it that they're gonna suffer, they're gonna get a phone call. I don't suppose we put those on. That's what we put in? What if there's a difference of opinion? Will a body of the political world be set up with contact with the PSE? That's what scares me. Or do we accept the Constitution? When I said: 'Let the New Democracy accept him', did you think I wanted to support New Democracy? I wanted this to be closed, because society was upset. Societies couldn't stand being barren conferences that won't lead anywhere. I think we should, Mr President of the House, before each Conference is held, only if it has a chance of success to convene it. By convening conferences and taking fifteen - sixteen etc., the self-respect of Parliament is affected. It's my place. First we come to an agreement and then we convene the Conference. Experiments with the Conference of Presidents do not fit in. Something has been said about the'representations' which we said yesterday as the Union of Centres in Parliament's budget. That is because we have not heard either in the number of Members or in the salaries of Members we ask that they be half the members. I saw the transfumes increased by what. I also heard that some people are asking for a return to the institution of the pensioner's pension that we have abolished after 2012 and received before 2012. It was suggested that the institution should come back, because'some people give their lives in here'. First they don't have to give her in here. Let's give her their lives out. There's room outside the House if we want to give our lives. We must also cut the Members' pensions before 2012. In fact, some get two or three pensions, you know. To cut the Member's pension completely, because it is a task. He's not allowed to go to the cashier's fund and get money like the employee. The worker was founded. Is sweat pouring in here? In here we're supposed to be some who fight for the country. Otherwise, I take this job. In seriousness the Chamber, if we want to have contact with society, must cut the pensions of the former Members. Mr President, please take this into account. Because the day you spoke to Mr Hatzinikolaou, you gave me the impression that you represented a trade union and not the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr George Mavrotas, on behalf of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, has the floor for the political intervention of the Potamio at the meeting on the anniversary of the Polytechnic insurrection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I'll stay on the subject. On every anniversary of the Polytechnic University America is at the centre of it. This year, however, for other reasons than usual. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from an important politician of our times, President Obama, a really important speech on democracy. What I liked most was his aversion that the most important title in democracy is not that of the Prime Minister or the President, but that of the citizen. Citizens, therefore, with the "P" capital, were those who were closed down at the Polytechnic University as today forty-three years ago. Students mainly, but also workers and students and men and women and younger and older. All citizens with "P" capital, who proclaimed bread, education, freedom. They claimed the right to express themselves freely. They claimed the right to find work without a certificate of opinions, to have equal opportunities. They claimed the right to be able to choose their leaders. They demanded, by one word, the right to democracy. Looking back, they will definitely view those days as a milestone in their lives. They had courage, they had boldness, it was a race at a great price for the participants. That is why we are honouring them today. Some of those who participated in the Polytechnic events followed the political footsteps. Many more, however, continued after their lives, assuming that they were merely doing their duty, devastated heroes who, when the publicity projectors lit, took a step back. We know a lot of people from the polytechnic generation. But there are many more we don't know and owe them. Don't be ridiculous. The citizens who were inside the Polytechnic School were a small minority of Greek society, a minority that saved the price of a mostly awkward and compromised majority. The major changes, however, from a number of minorities begin. By tearing down that tank gate, he cut down at the same time the clean face of the dictatorship. In November 1973, the Polytechnic insurrection was the catalyst for the junta to fall, but a bloody catalyst that we should never forget, honoring those sacrificed. Today, however, the citizens and especially our young people have to fight with another 'dictatorial' - in introductory terms, the word - a 'dictatorialism' that we must dedicate to free its powers, a 'digitalism' that has woven its web into society and needs a real revolution to go away. It is the "declaration of heterocracy", that is, the domination of our own: To move on you must be ours, the party, the group, the region, the family. It doesn't matter what you know, but who you know. There are always a few horizontal parts of all the places that are trying to fortify behind the walls of merit, shouting for justice, transparency and equal opportunities. In vain. Here comes the client state tanks and breaks the gate and every time the same work. No matter how many governments change, the rustled stalkers of the client system will always be there with their creepy noise throwing the gate, crushing principles, values and leveling the scenery. But why don't we change? Why is the resistance to change our favorite sport? But because the fuckin' thing doesn't like anyone. Because populism and demagogy continue to dominate, because we are taking our decisions in the past and not in the future and in the past not only the recent but also the final one. In the regime, therefore, “date of domination” always gains value. Why? Do we know or cannot measure the value? We can, but as the value wins, the customer system loses power. He also loses the only motive he offers to the voter: vote for us and we will suit you. So, today, a revolution, a silent uprising, and here the first reason is the political system, which will train and create citizens and not customers, which will be judged by the framework that will be created by 'no', by the 'no', by whether to put common rules, equal opportunities, merit and justice over the lips. Such forces I believe there are horizontal forces in all places, just have to surface, elsewhere more, elsewhere less, but they have to surface. I return to yesterday's speech by the President of the United States. President Obama asked our young people to stay home yesterday to fight to re-establish her on her feet. But when they see that there is an adequacy, the worthy will go away. When the party identity is counted and not the ability, the undivided ones will leave. When they see the affinity or acquaintance counts, those who don't have "bad in the Koron" will leave. Who will eventually stay back to change the country? So it's not just the economy that's the operative cause of brain leaking. They're also closed doors, grabbed chairs that create a client system. And indeed, as society erods with the doctrine that your progress has nothing to do with your value, but with your acquaintance, that success does not want trouble but wants to way, that equal opportunities for some are "equal", so we will sink in the spiral of depreciation and so much we will see the best go away by throwing "black stone" behind them. So we need a silent revolt against the clientdom. This uprising, of course, will not last three days, such as the Polytechnic, but it may take three decades. But once it has to be the beginning. Let us remember what President Obama said yesterday: the most important title in democracy is the title of the citizen, not the client, for the sake of our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religion, Foreign, Economic, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism submitted a draft law on 16-11-2016: ‘Incorporation into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the Development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures, Simplification of the licensing procedure and other provisions of service stations and energy and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Independent Greeks. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I was pleased to hear the President of the United States mentioning Martin Luther King's 'I have a dream' yesterday. Not all Americans are the same. In a country, not all citizens are themselves. Some people don't want to understand it and they don't know it at all. Their right! I want to remind you again here, because this is a very important, fresh event and it has a lot to do with what we are doing today, that Barack Obama was the man who did everything for climate change. No other president had fought so much. He was the President who restored his relationship with Cuba. Cuba has been blocked for over fifty years, and we all know it. He was the President who restored his relationship with Iran. It was the same President who fought for the 'Obama Care', the uninsured Americans - and there are too many - to have fate in the sun, something in a hospital, because there is a very tough system. Above all, it is the same President who did not lose time and in the crisis with Lehman Brothers immediately plaited about 3 trillion dollars - an arrogance, a glimpse - and won. The crisis in America may not have been healed definitively, but at least it does not get as it is in Europe. So this President has come and whether or not we win from this visit, we will see. This government gives a very big fight - unevenly, I would say - and we will see at the end whether or not we will win it. I want to be a little realistic. I don't like holidays either. I don't know if Daniel Copettitt in May of '68 - something similar to our Polytechnic - imagined that today the French presidency is claiming it by Mrs Lepen. I don't know if in his craziest dreams he'd have imagined that. I also don't know - to go a little earlier - whether the Dutch painter, Van Gogh, when he painted the "Third One", where he shows angry faces, that something is changing, that in society, he would imagine that Wilders, another far-right, is at the door to take power in the Netherlands too. Austria, a country that has indeed given samples of writing, can also have a extreme right-wing President tomorrow. We see Urban in Hungary. That's where the Soviet buffalo led in '56? We see a drunkard - I am sorry to say - President in Czechoslovakia who gets poor every time he drinks and says incredible things. And someone would say, what does he have to do with Dubtek, when the Soviet troops again broke in the Czech Republic. We are currently living a very tough reality, where the word democracy and, above all, the Parliamentary Republic are on fire abroad. Those who are not prejudiced, because Obama had the comfort to speak freely yesterday, would see that the word "globalisation" was a continuation in his reports. I will be tiring and I will recall this again: the planet has seven billion citizens. According to the Oxford poll - I will keep saying that, because this is the cause of evil - eighty-two tycoons have assets as much as three and a half billion of the world's poorest. If that's normal, we'll be judged. It's not just unfair. It's a twisted reality. It is the reality in which we have been led by the globalization of 'a hundred percent' - forgive me the English expression - where few people are almighty, where political personnel have come to second fate and some in dark living rooms determine the fates of the planet. I heard in an interview with Donald Trump - whom I respect as an institution, as President of the United States - saying: "The destruction of the planet is an nonsense that the Chinese have invented and I do not take any notice of it in order to affect the competitiveness of the Americans." I want to believe that this thing will not do and will see this reality again more calmly. I also heard that it was for armour, as well as for various things, such as the 'Obama Care'. But I heard after that he changed it and went by saying. This is a grim reality, where we see extreme right movements right now glazing everywhere. A lot of them don't live there. We've lived in Bataklan like yesterday. A man who is a margin - I dare say it - sooner or later will react, something will do. When I'm unemployed, when I don't have a fate in the sun, inequality creates extreme behaviors and offenses. Mahatma Gandhi said violence brought violence. It's violence when you've got the other one hungry, on the margins and on the fatality, it's going to develop infractional behavior. I want to remind you - and I don't want to "eat" a lot of time - that the Assistant, our Assistant, said that if you want to be useful in society, money, death and glory to overcome. I would also like to remind him that when the almighty King Philip was in front of Diogene, in a fort, impressed by what Diogene said to him, he said: “Tell me what I want to do for you.” At least that's what mythology says. He says, "Start aside because you're hiding the sun." Diogenes had exceeded all three. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I want a minute, Mr President, if you'll be kind. Besides, I'm the last person to imagine from the speakers. There's no one else. Were the polytechnic children? What was it? I think it's a story written indelibly and will stay. Everyone knew that in a few hours the tanks were getting down. We all knew that that day something was going to happen. It can be a massacre. It's been a few years already. Nobody's gone. Those who remember - and here I want to make a little report - know they were waiting hauntedly and the tanks went down. And he came in one and broke down the door. No one left until that time. Most of us were kids and were emotionally working. We did not have a more general view of what is happening. But I think that power at that moment armed thousands of children and all over the world - I believe - to a large extent, and gave them a fight. Did he win? I don't like to level anything. We have a form of democracy where everyone can tell their opinion, say extreme things, etc. And I want to say this: some of those kids never went to cash the paper. They went to their jobs. And they are unknown among strangers, such as Dimitris Kotulas, founder of the 2nd Helladic, such as Nassa Katsoulas, an unknown dentist, Plato the Municipality, who has left right now, and many other, many, many! I mean and finish that we may have a tough reality today, but I say it, and I believe that for the first time after many years, we are looking at forgetting misery, 'SIEMENS', equipment, public works, the Olympic Games, strange things that have arrived here! Finally, I have to make a dirty request to the Prime Minister of the country. If the civilian staff are at the moment devalued, it has been devalued because a piece of politicians - fortunately not all - put a firm hand in honey. Lists, lists, lists, tax evasion, corruption, conflict! It rains into everyone's head today, not to put any politicians in the honey again. He's going to break a whistle! Programs can be made wrong, as well as wrong choices. One thing will no longer be forgiven by the Greek citizen. And if they spit on the road, they don't do it for the wrong programs or for the wrong ideology, but why we got caught with the sprout on the back of some of us. That's the point of the Polytechnic, the kids who defied then and could die like dogs one minute into the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor as last speaker after the latter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u45	And I want to think briefly, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate is turning at least the oldest of us many years back. Democracy was destroyed and was really destroyed by a violent act of soldiers who sought to establish a permanent regime with their own perception, their own brutality. But indeed, because the Greek people always have freedom and democracy in their nature, they began to cowardle at the beginning. I was a student at the time, and I must say that we did not understand exactly what was happening, because the first two, three years there was no reaction. And there was an absolute monotony, and a large part of the people needed to survive. I want to remind you that we are in 1967 and the country has still not been restored by the wounds of the 1940s-1950s and there was a great deal of poverty. So people were trying to survive. So the first time there was no reaction. But the reaction started slowly from youth. And this reaction began to be gigantic and to create - as you can see, I speak with personal memories right now - a turbulence. She was submissive, she was undercover. The main outbreak was the occupation of the Polytechnic and then law school in February 1973. There were the first two major reactions, youth resistances, but only students yet, the student youth stirred up the flag. But that gave another occasion. And after all, how was the junta shaken? I will say that and if it has not yet been said, at least in this Chamber at least today. I join the great acts of resistance and the Navy movement, Nikos Papa. Why? Because he had the boldness within a militarist regime, within a regime that was certain to level him, would wipe him out. And he had already leaked, served in the Navy, and there was a lot of talk, there were rumors, there was too much circulating, there was an underlying situation. The Navy had risen to restore democracy. I am sure that this move was not intended to change the military regime from one faction or another. It is absolutely certain that the purpose of this move was to lure another member of the Armed Forces, who had assumed many members, that the dictatorship was not able to save the country, instead of destroying it. The Navy movement, therefore, gave it the opportunity, even if it is being treated as a failure to leak, the treason, which has taken place, but has shaken the stability of the regime within the Armed Forces. Inside the Armed Forces it was kicked. I served in the Navy, let me have a personal report. A large part of the crew - I'm Poriot in origin - were my classmates, my friends from Poros. Within the crew of "Velus", three - four of them had followed Nikos Papa, had come out in Fiomicino and Italy as emigres. I had an indirect reflection of this acquaintance. I didn't get you out anymore. Navy licenses were cut off for a long time and they were watching or trying to find out if I knew anything. It doesn't matter, they got over this. But this move now brought reaction and resistance within the Armed Forces themselves, changed the landscape. And so comes the catalytic factor, the events of the Polytechnic, which is the complete reaction of youth. It's not just a student reaction. I would remind you - you know most of them - that at the Polytechnic portal there were announcements. I remember personally: "Workers came from the Megaras", "The farmers came from the Megaras", "the workers came from Lavrio". These are real memories. And that means that there was now one unity in this reaction. Of course the fact that had created this reaction was also the mockery, if you like, to the Greeks who had attempted the regime of Papadopoulos on the spiral of a democratic process or a path towards democracy, a government, then the party of the progressives. Don't say names, little - they're very familiar. So he created these reactions. And we got to the Polytechnic, it was a catalyst of events from there. We had the Ioannides movement, we arrived at the destruction of Cyprus, and we arrived now, at the restoration of democracy, which could no longer be restored. A good democratic constitution came in '75. Today, however, democracy, even in the jump of these forty-three years, is being tested. And why is it tested, ladies and gentlemen? For the reason that, within a deep economic crisis, basic democratic principles are being shaken, because if the memoranda and agreements, which are necessarily concluded at the moment, restrict much of the Greek state's ability to develop, are being reduced. Because, whether we want it or not, only exit from the economic crisis will help in times of globalisation - well or bad - I will not judge whether globalisation today has produced positive or negative results, that will appear much later. At least in Greece it's our fault. We didn't have the preparation. We didn't even have the brain. We suddenly became rich and felt rich and started spending. But we spent some loan and maybe a little wild in the end. Democracy must therefore even be supported today. To return to its true dimensions. And this can only be done by exiting the adaptation agreements, by exiting the support mechanisms. Because democracy without Greeks' ability to determine his future is a hell of a democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the reminder of the great resistance of the Velos. Ladies and gentlemen, the Special Session of Parliament, dedicated to the day of memory and honour for the revolt of the Polytechnic, has been completed. I would ask that we keep a minute's silence here. [[It is now in the Chamber of Deputies for a minute.]] Their memory is eternity! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-17-S1-commons.u47	With the consent of the House at no time of 13.47 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 18 November 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
