ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda, I would like to make a statement to the effect that the work of Parliament's services will proceed on the matter of the draft law. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Economic, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and State Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Health, Economic and Energy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity have tabled a draft law on 18-5-2016 "Repeal provisions implementing the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reform and Other Provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Special session of the Parliament for the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Pontou. For seven minutes, on behalf of the Bureau, I Vice-President of Parliament, on behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ioannis Amanatidis, and my fellow Members and Members of Parliament, appointed by the parliamentary groups of the parties. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the former Presidents of the Parliament, the representatives and representatives of the Polish Hellenism who are attending today's special plenary session on the Memorandum of Memorial of the Greeks of the Pontou. As you know, the Greek Parliament based on Law 2193/1994 has recognized the 19th May as the Memorial Day of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus. The essence of such decisions lies in the equitable memory of the victims and the memory of the victims is not lost. It is also important to force the Turkish Republic to recognise state crimes committed in the process of birth by the devastation of the Ottoman Empire. For all of the Greek people the memory of these crimes in the case of the Greeks and Greeks of the Pontus - and we are talking about hundreds of thousands of displaced and murdered, with unspeakable disasters and plundering - shows the need to fight war on the peaceful coexistence of the peoples. Furthermore, recognizing the crimes of the past can help to get closer to the neighbors, to speak peacefully about the past and to take what it takes so that such bloody tragedies remain in the past. And in that direction we must press on with the Republic of Turkey and have open guidelines there. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the Pontian issue can strengthen our relations with Turkey and the Turkish people. In any case, these issues must be approached with objectivity and respect for historical truth, without demonization and fanaticism. It is good to remember this now that in our neighbour Turkey the question of democratic freedoms in the name of nationalism is again a daily life and innocent people are characterised by traitors because they have expressed their opinion. And for our neighbour Turkey, the same applies to all states and peoples. Our story must be seen in the face of it, with its goodness and its badness. You make friends, not enemies, when you admit and entreat injustice, even if you have committed it yourself. Finally, the emergence of the extent of destruction and crime can help to eliminate the operative causes of crimes against humanity. If we do not see the historical truth and do not look objectively at that historic period, like any historical period of course, we will not fight the causes of destruction and war. For example, the pursuit of so-called 'New Turks' to transform the Ottoman Empire into a Turkish national state, in which ethnic minorities were already suspected during their pursuit, explains to some extent, without, of course, justifying the slaughter and uprooting, this tragedy of Hellenism, which the Greek Parliament of 1994 unanimously called the genocide of the Greeks in the Asia Minor Pontou on 19 May as a day of memory of genocide. The feeling of the law of the Pontius and of all Hellenism and the Pontian issue, ladies and gentlemen, is the raw material, to have a deep-rooted relationship with the truth. Our deep relationship with truth and justice will make us more convincing and more effective. This is also the relationship that strengthens and creates progress in friendship between the peoples. The Pontian tragedy highlights some very great and universal values, such as democracy, tolerance, solidarity, people's reconciliation. Hellenism has suffered enormous blows from division, from fascism and from insurmountable nationalism. The historical memory that accompanies the persecution and uprooting of the Greek population from the region of Pontou is now also honored by the Greek Parliament, as well as by important events throughout the country. The persecutions of the Greeks of the Pontou, the victims, the killed and the uprooted, the memory of which we honour, are facts and the victims of circumstances that we have begun to hope will gradually become a past. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Next to us people are killed every day and many more people are knocking on our door uproared. What if different from the Greeks of Pontus and Asia Minor speak another language? It is precisely because we, unfortunately, have reason to remember such crimes and to honor the memory of their victims that we need to realize that the ground in which they take their place is war and oppression. War and oppression make people angry and disrespectful. So let us remember the crime against the Greeks of the Sea another reason to know about the peace and reconciliation of the peoples. To conclude, let me say that the people of Pontou, who, when expelled from their homes, came down to Russia and then came to the Soviet Union and then came to Greece or their descendants, are still facing problems with insurance to a certain extent. Under the recent law on insurance, Law No.4387 of 12 May was granted a social solidarity allowance to under-represented over-aged people. This, of course, is a long way from the state's obligation to fully meet their needs. Justifiable, therefore, these people will say that what has been heard today or will be heard about the destruction of Pontian Hellenism by party representatives may not correspond to a sincere approach. In any case, these compatriots must feel and feel that the modern Greek state recognizes all the adventure and destruction we have said beforehand. After all, Pontian Hellenism proved and demonstrated in the most active way that it has a huge power and was then despite persecutions, despite the adventures perhaps one of the most dynamic parts of modern Greek history. The Greek Parliament must keep all this open and this will be just for both peace and humanity and for humanism and for Pontian Hellenism. Thank you. [[Applause]] As I said before, according to the agenda, I will give the floor to the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Giannis Amanatidis, who will be placed on behalf of the Government. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, guests and representatives of the Polish Hellenism have, this year, been ninety-seven years since the Pontian genocide, the 20th century's second chronological genocide, which took place after the Armenian war. The Pontian genocide is one of the saddest moments of human history, as it led to the uprooting of his ancestral homes a part of Hellenism which was fighting for his survival for thousands of years and which carried out his own worthwhile course, parallel to that of the rest of the Greeks. Maintaining the historical memory of the Pontian genocide and pilgrimage to the martyrial past through today's anniversary is no concession to intolerance and fanaticism, but it is a reverential wax to the victims of this shameful act and a contribution to the formation of the path to the future, which will ensure that humankind must not and will not regain such tragic experiences. Hardly human mind can capture the methods and means that led to three hundred three hundred three thousand Pontian victims, such as rapes, kidnappings of property, pillaging, fireworks, exiles, forced labour battalions, torture, starvation, hanging, mass massacres. Ladies and gentlemen, when the genocide was now completed, the existing and visible fear of total extinction of the Pontian Hellenism caused the violent movement of the Pontian, Christian populations towards Greece, the Soviet Union and elsewhere. In February 1994, the Greek Parliament voted unanimously to declare 19 May as a day of remembrance for the genocide of the Greeks in the Asia Minor Pontou, in the period 1916-1923. This recognition, despite the seventy-year delay, morally justified Pontian Hellenism and linked modern Hellenism to his historic memory. No one can question that the cultural footprint of thousands of years of Greek Pontou never faded, even after their violent displacement at the beginning of the last century. The Pontius, with our national traditions - and let me "our" - consciousness, rich cultural, national and religious heritage and our customs, managed over time to integrate ourselves into Greek society and contribute to the development and progress of Greece at economic, cultural and social levels. After all, we should not forget that important figures of the Pontus from the area of the Church, science and trade strengthened the economic, spiritual and religious life of Greece while maintaining their traditions and customs, as well as the memories of the unforgettable fathers of the Pontus and the Black Sea. "And they, together with the Cross of the Witness, took with us all the richness of the memories in a drama, in a tragedy, in an epic and in a merry ray, and reached the common of the Pan-Hellenic Mother, Greece, with the firm decision, as we contributed to the reconstruction of the walls," said Leonida Jasonides many years ago, a genuine expression of the Pontian soul. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, can there be any further steps? Of course, yes, so that the odyssey of Pontian Hellenism will be known more to young people about how the Pontius kept the ancient lamp of Hellenism opium, and how the Pontius has preserved it with the oil of the Pontian racing, about how they maintained the customs, traditions, traditions, about how the Pontius had and had our blood sacrifice. The difficult task of ending the non-acceptance of historical truth by the neighbouring country - which should undoubtedly be consistent with forgiveness - should perhaps be undertaken by societies themselves in direct fertile and constructive dialogue, so that such an honest approach can rule out the possibility of such dreadful acts being repeated anywhere in the world. This dialogue together with the recognition and elimination of the mouse genocide taboos will also contribute to the dawn of a new era. In conclusion, I would like to stress that despite the fact that at that time humanity was unable to prevent this crime, in the year 2016, and while an unfavourable suffocating framework is being formed, including for the Orthodox Christian element of the Middle East and Africa, we owe more than ever to the victims of genocide, their relatives and modern Pontius to preserve this historical fact in our memory in its real dimensions. And to create those conditions which will lead to the vindication of the demands of the mouse issue and the peaceful coexistence and cooperation of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-one students and students and seven teachers from the 1st Souda Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will speak for seven minutes, as will all the following. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear representatives of Pontian Hellenism, former Presidents of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, from 1916 to 1923, are systematically exterminated by the Greeks of the Pontou. Over the years the'red' massacre has been completed by the 'white' massacre, i.e. the slow extermination of the deportations, cold, hunger, mistreatment. The genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou by Turkish nationalism is an undeniable reality and is recorded within the more general planning of the New Turks for the extermination of the non-Muslim minorities and, respectively, the Turkishisation of Muslims. For many years the issue has been left to the international community and also to our country, despite the testimony of hundreds of reports, visual material, despite official diplomatic documents, despite the living testimony of the people who survived the pillaging and massacres. There was, however, the truth of the Greeks of the Pontus, the frustration of their loss, collapse and refugee. This unscrupulous tragedy is of moral and political significance. Ethically it was not the due justice of the victims and of the historical memory. And when one gets late in history, she gets avenged. Politics we have not been able to fully understand the way in which the nations - states - are being created in the wider region, in particular as regards the creation of the modern Turkish state and to understand the role that this plays even today. Violent displacement, murder and ultimately genocide of both the Greeks and other populations of Turkey - the Armenian genocide had 1.5 million dead - in the first two decades of the 20th century not only was due to Turkish expansionism, nationalism and the need to create a nation-state, but was the result of the intervention of the great imperialist forces of the time. There are many references to the role played by the German factor. The Germans, at that time, have huge economic and military interests in Turkey. They hope that with a strong Turkey they will best compete with the British. That is why Germany's policy is drawing up a programme of Turkey's integrity whose implementation requires that those populations that boost centrifugal tendencies within the Ottoman Empire be eliminated. Turkey is becoming the most important field of action of German imperialism. The driving force is the German banks that have colossal operations in Asia. Our gaze in today's Turkey should be. In this case, it should be stressed that today's quantumism, the lack of democracy, the treatment of minorities within Turkey, as is the case, shows that there are still strong residues perpetuating its state and social structure. It is a constant request from the national delegation as well as Pontian Hellenism to recognise the international genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou as such. This demand is not placed on the public record to maintain an enmity among peoples, but precisely the opposite. The people who recognize and clarify black moments in their history can move on to the future free from burdens, in a spirit of friendship with their neighbours. Turkey does not seem to be prepared for this, and Greece should give real content to this request to the international community. The non-recognition of genocide today by Turkey means that it does not want its past to be considered. The anti-democratic and anti-democratic attitude to a number of issues, such as refugee, violations in the Aegean, is evident in the issue of democracy. All this, of course, with the tolerance and assistance of the international community. In 1994 the Greek Parliament unanimously recognised the genocide of the Pontius. For these Greeks, the Greeks of Pontus, and not the Pontius, for these Greeks, who have crossed their identity everywhere, we should not be content only with an anniversary reminder. There has been use of the issue for both micro-political and voter reasons. There is, however, one question: How can the recognition of the Pontius genocide be achieved today? What practicable policies can lead to there and with what benefit? It has been mentioned before the Vice-President of Parliament that major problems have not been solved, such as insurance and others. And last year the member of the Pambodian Federation, in his speech at the special theme event on genocide, outlined a roadmap of claims, which requires serious investigation. He calls, first, for the genocide of Assyrians to be recognised, by supplementing the recognition of the three genocide of the Armenians, Assyrians and Greeks, who were committed in the same space and time by the same genocide for the same reasons. Secondly, it calls for the trio of Armenian, Assyrian and Greek genocide to be integrated into the debate and for a settlement on the outstanding issues with the Turkish Government. Thirdly, re-educate the volume with the documentaries of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism and fulfil the commitment to publish in six languages of this volume. And, fourthly, to make Turkey's recognition of the genocide of the Christian peoples, Greeks, Armenians and Assyrians on the Euro-Turkish agenda as a condition of peace, smooth and democratic entry into the European Union. At a time when in Europe, and also in the wider Mediterranean region, war and the refugee waves are on the agenda and democracy is at stake, which is considered necessary, we must say that another international democracy and the coexistence of peoples is needed. This plan cannot proceed as long as there are open wounds to the body of history and nations with tolerance, but also the firing, I would say, of the imperialist forces and their interests. The destabilisation of Syria, the burning Middle East, the huge refugee waves, the hundreds dead in the Aegean Sea, the closed borders, the Cypriot border, are some of the new forms of crimes against humanity, the new forms that again have the same guilts. Humanity, in order to move forward with a better future, must recognise its mistakes and not go beyond them. There is a risk that offenses will be recorded on the logic that 'they are wars and imperialism'. It's not exactly like that. There are specific responsibilities, a specific story, with specific names, which cannot be omitted and can be justified, so that the same policies are not repeated at all times. He needs a democratic and patriotic invitation. And Greece can and must play a different role in the wider region. A Greece of democracy, peace and culture can become a leader in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. We must never let genocide happen again. I will end with something said last year, which I think the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs himself said. In any case we should remember that when Hitler wanted to do the Jewish genocide, he said: “Who remembers Armenian genocide?” Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Maria Triantafel. Mr Savvas Anastasiades, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Former Presidents of the House, representatives of the Pontian Unions, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic memory of the Pontus genocide, which is resurrected on the occasion of the black anniversary of 19 May 1919, is a milestone, which determines our debt to the historical truth, our dead and our uprooted ancestors. In the beginning of the 20th century, the Greeks of the East listened together with all the members of the society there, where everyone lived, with all the peoples. In the second decade of the 20th century, however, history's games began, politics' games reached the "greys" days. It was the days when man forgot the man and called him his enemy. It was the days when the persecutions began from the sub-century homes, when under the guidance of the Germans and the tolerance of English, French, American and Russian peoples began to implement the decision of the New Turks to clear the collapse of the Ottoman Empire by the Christian populations of the East and to create a country of Mohammedan. Then the gulgot for the hunted Greeks began. Turkish nationalists proceeded with the extermination of the Christian populations of the East, studied and drunken, with recruitment and exile, with massacres and violence, arrests and labour battalions, death marches and mass displacement, independence courts and rape. The crime of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism began in 1914, continued until 1923 and was completed with the exchange of populations. The anointed Greeks of Pontou began their new life in Greece with arms of will, stubbornness, creation, smile and optimism. The first generation of refugees consumed in the struggle for survival. And he won him. The second generation of refugees was consumed in the struggle for social catastrophe. And he won him, too. Other years followed, years of growth and prosperity. People’s voices were silenced, as the West imposed its will. Persecution and massacres have been forgotten. Any voice of protest on the historical remembrances fantasyed nationalist, and the monument of lost homelands, increasingly fewer references, was lost. What happened? Did we lose our reflexes? Did we lose our memory? All together or none of it. Geopolitical interests have imposed their will on governments. The good time lost our memory for a while, as much as it took to determine our resistance to the pain of yesterday. Today, for us who have learned the tragic events from the accounts of our grandparents, there is no oblivion. For us, the third and fourth generations of refugees, there is no other way from the path of justice. This race is being called upon to give and win. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are making an account, while our relations with the perpetrator, Turkey, impose another way of thinking, another way of doing things, another way of doing things, if you like, not the one who wants foreign interests to be imposed on us, but the one that starts from the historical recognition of genocide at international level. What's the profit? First of all, we owe it to them. We owe it to the memories they left us, because when people forget, they leave windows to repeat. In addition to emotional dynamics, however, there is realistic reality. Modern geopolitical data, clearly and impose conditions on us. Indeed, we need to take a step forward and see the future of cooperation rather than dissatisfaction. To accept the will of realistic policy. To see Turkey as a member of the same family. This, however, does not mean denying the historical reality that put the Hellenism of the Pontus into genocide and extinction. The unfortunate tactics of the silence of the facts of history was perhaps one of the reasons why friendship with the Turks so badly went. Throwing a veil of oblivion in the past, but knowing, not hiding, says the witness of the events Banking Dimitris Psathas in his book "Pontos Earth" in 1966. We must remember, therefore, that it must not be plunged into the altar of political destiny. Our truth is a negotiating paper of peace. Historical reality is a powerful weapon of diplomatic negotiations. It is up to us, the offspring, but mainly the political and spiritual leadership of the country. To put this reality as a precondition and incomprehensible condition for the Greek-Turkish approach and the European course of Turkey. Showing our own, our three-year stay there. To project Stravon from Amusea of the Pontus, Bessaronian the Banking, the Pontian Dialect, the closest to the ancient Greek. Here's our power! Greek politicians and universities had to take positions and initiatives. They would find a lot of supporters internationally. But we were cowards and we were cowards. We're afraid of disturbing our relations with the neighbor. The fact that the issue of genocide has not gone ahead is primarily the responsibility of politicians. Turkey is firmly and methodically, step-by-step, extending its claims. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, your tolerance. We still do not dare to raise an issue which already has many foreign parliaments, many foreign politicians and intellectuals have accepted. Greek-Turkish relations cannot have honesty and stability without the minimal act of self-criticism and rehabilitation. We must make this condition unequivocal to the Greek-Turkish approach. We find ourselves blind, if we believe that by magic a state figure and policy that has remained unchanged over the last hundred years, this policy that has created the tragic events of Istanbul and Cyprus, this policy that sustains today's challenges and claims in the Aegean and Thrace. That is why the genocide must feel the pressure and international outcry from the condemnation of their crimes. Unfortunately, Turkey's position, which is firmly denying its actions, is today being strengthened by the positions of unscrupulously insulting and provoking positions of the present Minister of Education, Mr. Phile. And, of course, the Turks have reason to deny genocide. But you, Mr. Philly? Why? You are thus abusive and negative to the hundreds of thousands of dead and their offspring. In this respect, the government must clarify its position. He must condemn the Minister's positions, and that is a matter and a problem for the Pontian federations. However, the same attitude was taken by the government in voting against the anti-racist in 2014 when it voted against the criminalisation of the Pontius genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, at this difficult time, where we are saddened to see our country in the global conflict because of the economic problems, it is a pity to see it in the fight against moral and historical justice. The issue of the Pontius genocide must be internationalised. The Greek Chamber of Deputies did, Mr President, its duty first. However, the Greek governments, the parties and the intellectuals are still inactive. The deep knowledge and awareness of genocide by the entire Greek people and the struggle for its recognition by the international community and Turkey is not an act of intolerance. It is an act of humanism, peace, stability and coexistence. The recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus remains and will remain our non-negotiable request, because it is not about the past, it is about the present and, above all, the future. By erasing a part of the past, it's like extinguishing a piece of the future, nobelieving poet, refugee, George Seferis. We won't stop until we're right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u8	Before moving on to the next speaker, the Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to pay tribute to the victims of the genocide of the Greek Pontians, as the House has decided and as we all have decided every day, not only to pay tribute but also to our confidence in the Greek Pontians, who are a component of this path of democratic development in our country. Today's day for us is a day of unity and not a micro-party controversy. I am sorry about what the representative of the New Democracy said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, it is a day of memory!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u11	Why are you here if you don't believe it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr Anastasiades, it's not right what you're doing. We're moving on. Please, everybody calm down. Please, everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u13	Let go of these, 'patriots'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u14	Why are you here if you don't believe it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Anastasiades, please. Please also from the government headquarters, Minister. We shall proceed with the speaker of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis. Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers and Members of Parliament, invited by honourable Members, the representatives of the Pontian Hellenism, 19 May by unanimous decision of the national Parliament in 1994 at Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou has been declared the National Remembrance Day of Genocide by the New Turks of Mustafa Kemal at the expense of Pontian Hellenism. As a Greek Polish origin today I mourn for the hundreds of thousands of victims of neo-Turkish communism. As a Greek nationalist, I have a quiet conscience, since I serve national ideals. As a member of the Golden Dawn, I am proud of our hopeful and realistic positions on national issues. It is our national obligation to further promote the issue of the genocide of the Pontius in every relevant international forum with a view to universal recognition. The Golden Dawn will not only stand alone, but will take the lead in this effort. Turkey should be obliged to recognise the genocide of the Greeks of Pontus and Asia Minor and apologise, as required by a resolution of the International Association of Genocide Studyers as early as 2007. Greeks of bourgeois origin should be faced with controversy and self-criticism by ethnic politicians who defied the vote and then turned into denials of genocide, pretentious historical arguments used only by Ankara to establish the denial. The fraudulent denial of the genocide of the Pontius is a criminal offence, a national merging, but mainly an insult to the sacred memory of our murdered and persecuted ancestors. Refusal is the last stage in genocide and shields those responsible. The unscrupulous Pontian Hellenism should practically condemn positions of denial of genocide and politically punish ethnic negligent negligents and ethnic corruption, their paraxysmic leftism, even if they mention the case of bloody ethnic cleansing. I would remind these politicians that the victim of bloody ethnic cleansing has been the displacement of the Soviet Union of Pontian Hellenism between 1937 and 1949 on the almightyness of Georgian Joseph Bessarionovic Jugasvili, the all-known Joseph Stalin. The question about the left Pontius inexpensive: race ideology? For the Golden Dawn answer is clear. Race and ideology. In addition to this, Pontian Hellenism should condemn politically and the enthusiasts of the so-called Greek-Turkish friendship, possessing liberal ideals, forget the rivers of blood which were spilled during the genocide of Pontus, East Thrace and Asia Minor in general, perhaps harmonized with the paradox and unexplained energy of Eleftherios Venizelos to propose in 1934 Mustafa Kemal Pasa for Nobel Peace. Banking, Pafras, Amusea, Samsonunta, Oinoi, Argyroupoli, Surmena, Kerasounda, Santa, Thermi, Theodosia, Greek cities, where the Greek Orthodox element grew until the beginning of the premeditated and well organized crime of the New Turks in 1914, culminating in 1919 and completed in 1924. For example, between February and August 1920 90% of the Greek Orthodox population was killed in the wider Pafras region. Golden Dawn faces the issue of the genocide of the Pontians with respect for the sacred memory of the victims, without fatalism and malnutrition, with pride in their heroism and targeting their moral justice, giving lasting struggle for universal recognition of genocide. In conclusion, I will recall two lyrics of the Pontian song "Kotza Anastas", dedicated to the heroic action of the Greek rebel of the Pontou, the emblematic form of the great Anastassis, the captain Anastasios Papadopoulou, the last locus of the Potto, with what this means and symbolizes: "God has crossed the refugee population, in a hand' he had Stavron and the canoe." Long live the Pontian Hellenism! Ponto's alive!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u17	We proceed to the spokesman of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Haris Kefalidou, Parliamentary of Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Polish unions. It's not an easy case to resist oblivion. Keep the collective memory of the heavy blow that Hellenism in Pontto at the beginning of the twentieth century. And yet, it is our duty to translate into the younger generations what some people still consider to be a "nauseum of history". Remember the tragic story of our grandparents and grandparents, the ancient and chosen Greeks of the Pontou. Their uprooting by inconceivable means. As today, ninety-seven years ago, on May 1919, the extinction of Hellenism in Podo was tragically closed. An important part of him who kept the tongue alive was exterminated, high in mind, to sing the Greek conscience. He co-existed peacefully with the Turks and dominated economic and spiritual life. Since when? From old times. Xenophils attested it in his work "Kyros Rivasis": "And they came upon the sea at Banking, a city of Greeks, inhabited in the Black Sea, a Silent colony, in Cologne," says of a city created by the Greeks in the 8th century before Christ. Kerassounda, Sinopi, Samsonda, Argyroupoli, all sights of a strong civilization, were held together. But they were just these ancestors - those who sealed these places in their presence for millenniums - who were slaughtered, torn apart, exterminated in the most inhumane ways for just one reason. They were Greeks and they were Christians. This is the blackest page in the story of the Pontou. That's genocide. It's not just an act of violence or mass murder. It's the deliberate and methodical extermination of some, not something they did. Violently attempted to erupt the thought, customs, customs, pabal traditions, along with the creative uplift of many brilliant personalities. Genocide is an act of total horror, an indiscriminate crime against humanity that must never be forgotten and how else it could be. That was why the Greek Parliament, on February 24, 1994, recognised by law the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. No, this historic decision was not a simple whim of the political context. Not even an act of feasibility, as some malicious people consider. If that were the case, we would commit the crime of limitation for all those who were exterminated in the raids, working battalions, in the chores, in the chores, in the violent displacement, in the forced relocations, in the hiking of thousands of kilometres in the inhospitable inland. Every year like today we have a sacred debt to all of them, at least remember them. To the persuasiveness of those who have organized their extinction so methodically, the outdated Pontius managed to overcome the suffering of so many gathered losses. They rebuilt their lives in Greece and despite the hardships, they stumbled. In addition to hard work, they never forgot their language, ancient dances, unforgettable homelands. Today that all the real values are winter in the vortex of globalisation, let us remember where our grandparents came from, in order to do so well, how they managed to close their wounds, give ideals and visions to their children and grandchildren. The genocide of our ancestors is a black page of world history. It is a moral obligation for all of us to maintain our historical memory, honoring those who suffered, uprooted, lost. We do not remember to stumble passions or to make arbitrary transfers at the moment or - let alone - to prove that others are bad ones. We must remember the genocide of the Pontius, like any other. Because every genocide is written in the criminal record of humanity. It embarrasses the entire civilized world. It shows us in the most absolute way, for what disgraceful crimes we humans are. Today we remember, to stop the terrible crime of genocide once being an easy solution to the problems. We remember, to be the witness sacrifice of our thousands of Pontian ancestors, a sacred testament for a better world. To finally learn peoples and leaders from the terrible mistakes of the past. To work harder and harder in the direction of reconciliation and peaceful coexistence of peoples. The crime disputes are not very small. The unscrupulous theories that attempt to reduce the size of the disappearance of a prosperous civilization continue to strive, to be subjugated, to exploit the passage of time for improper revisions. From this point of view, only damages and insults constitute official government lip placements for 'distinctions between ethnic cleansing and genocide'. The only good thing is that the doubts about genocide in the name of the "extreme scientific concept". Much more than people who have the first responsibility for youth education and the obligation to shield them both in the corrosive effect of oblivion and in the extremist voices of lipstick and civic ethnicism. They say the past is a second heart that strikes within us. These blows we have a duty to hear. Every year this day, let us remember another genocide that our culture has failed to prevent. Let us feel through the suffering of a disaster, the hope of an upheaval that the place needs. The power of Pontian Hellenism proves that this uplift is possible for our homeland! On the occasion of this day let me, Minister, symbolically give you a book, which is very important to me as a Pontius MP, and it is no more than Mrs Thea Halo's experiential book entitled 'Neither My Name'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u19	Before we move on to the speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, forty-five students and two educational attendants from the 2nd School of Freshwater. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, MP for the Thessaloniki I.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost a century since the violent barbaric uprooting of the Greeks of the Sea and other minorities from the Black Sea regions. But what was the political and social context, the historical background of that period? The Pontian Hellenism was then found in the vortex and was aware of the consequences of the development of the national urban states, the southern Slavs, Armenian, Arabs, Turks, in conditions of disintegration of the Ottoman Empire, which was, of course, under the direct intervention of the strong capitalist countries of Europe. In this context, and more specifically in the process of forming a nation-state from the Turkish bourgeoisie, there were immediate devastating consequences and persecution of national minorities, including the Greek Pontian minority and other populations of Thrace and Asia Minor. But the consequences were not the same for everyone. The persecutors and the sufferings were mainly suffered by the people of the people, poverty, as they were used without interpretation for other purposes. The Greeks of Pontou did not have the Turkishs in general and abstractly, but before all the Turkish bourgeoisie, who, by the blood-moving, wanted to displace the Greek capital. Instead, however, they also had the Greek bourgeoisie, who ruthlessly used the populations in Pontus as a diversion and as a means of pressure for its own interests, leaving them at the last minute in their luck. The result of these urban classes is well known. Hundreds of thousands of people were lost and about one and a half million souls took the way of refugee. The Pontius who were finally repatriated after centuries were installed by the Greek authorities mainly in areas of northern Greece, which in many cases proved economically inappropriate to maintain them, since the criteria for their establishment were not humanitarian but political. The economic situation of the refugee masses and their living conditions were then miserable, while the attacks on refugees were not only verbal, but in many cases also took the form of natural violence. "They are called "Alfonsis", "Turks" and threatened with extinction" writes "Acropolis" of the time. Such and so revealing was the attitude of so-called 'patriots' and 'nationalists' of that time towards refugees. It is historic inexperience and challenge that the same ideological political space today is trying, by smuggling in the gutter of Stalinology and by voting, to rob the genuine feelings of Pontian Hellenism. The Communists then gave a titanic battle, denounced the false separatist lines that the urban world wanted to impose between refugees and local workers in its logic "divides and reigns". It writes "RIZOSPASTI" on 7 September 1929: "Greece is not divided into locals and refugees, Greece is divided into rich and poor. Everyone must choose between the rich refugee combined with the rich local and the poor refugee who will have the poor local worker or farmer." The same class policy and the same approach, then and now. However, Pontian Hellenism has lived on its flank and has learned what to say about moving into war zones, about impoverishment, disease and racism. And today, the imperialist order of things - in which the Greek Government is willingly involved - continues to light the fires of war in the Eurasian region. Hundreds of thousands of dead, millions of refugees - the majority of women's children - the new account of wild competition between monopolies, exploiting the separation of peoples and minorities on the basis of religion and ethnic origin so that - in its base divides and reigns - they always dominate, earn profits, no matter whether these divisions lead to the slaughter of thousands of civilians. Our party not only condemns the criminal attacks of the imperialists of the European Union and NATO and informs the people of dangers, but calls them to take action to prevent the designs, the ones that lead to the generalization of war and a new bloodshed of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, over the years the Communist Party of Greece has supported every fair claim of the organized mouse movement, as well as all the people's claims against the choices of the government and the European Union. We are standing on the side of the thousands of expatriates who, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the capitalist rehabilitation, settled in our country and continue, after so many years, to face serious rehabilitation problems. We condemned the shameful measure - four years ago - of abolishing the grim pension of the OGA by thousands of over-aged homosexuals, who were effectively consolidated by the recent reinsurance law. We support every request and initiative to restore it. We believe that the cultural and spiritual activity of the Pontians of all generations should be demonstrated and supported by the Greek state. Today, at a time when the nationalist rhetoric is again invoked into the national feeling and interest, our people must use their historical memory to see what is behind nationalist rhetoric, behind the attempt to perpetuate nationalist hatred. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In closing for all the above reasons, we also state from the Step that we are firmly on the side of the Polish organisations and associations and we support both the national Parliament and the European Parliament the efforts they are making to identify internationally the genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Mrs Catherine Markou, MP from Thessaloniki, has the floor from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Former Presidents of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Polish unions, ladies and gentlemen, today's anniversary of honor and memory in the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou is not just about Pontian Hellenism. This day symbolises the right to memory, the right to the preservation of identity and historical tradition. It symbolizes how connection to history and origin, through a process of creative transformation, gives strength, courage and hope for the future. Unfortunately, there are many who, in the name of the false forward-looking question, have attempted to hit and degrade one of the most bloody and charged crimes experienced by Hellenism, of course, by not only ignoring the majority of those established historical Greeks and foreigners but also the fact of the recognition by the Greek Parliament, as well as by other parliaments internationally, thanks to the inconveniences of the Pontian organizations. Let me remind you that the European Parliament in its 2006 annual report called on Turkey to reconcile its historic past with its actions against Assyrians, Armenians and Greeks in the period 1908-1923. Fortunately the Pontius, the true Lebanese Greeks, with the rich civilization, with the enormous courage and courage, with the greatest contribution to the advancement of modern Greece, which became the Iphigenia of the barbarians of the time, have no need of prostates. They were sacrificed in the most barbaric way, so that we can be here today, to remember, to honor them. In addition to today's special session, however, the Greek Parliament, through the Committee on Hellenism of the Diaspora, can have a more active presence and participation in the rescue and promotion of the recognition of the Greek genocide of the Pontou internationally through the interparliamentary institutions in which the Greek MPs participate and their communication with the Greek MEPs. The struggles of the Pontian Hellenism for the international recognition of genocide, for the moral justice of the witnesses of this hideous crime, are struggles to maintain memory. At a time when everything is on the news that others call the day and others the next, and good memory is considered a flaw, let us try to remember, keep our story alive, "know, not hide", as Dimitris Psathas wrote. Let us take strength from the fact that the Greeks of Pontou, despite the trials they have passed, were able to promote and revive all of northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace and ultimately offer global cultural and economic issues. Pontian Hellenism gives an example today of the resilience of Hellenism to all of us modern Greek and Greek women, in order to cope with today's difficulties and to go dynamically and creatively towards the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u23	We proceed with the speaker on behalf of the Independent Greeks, Georgios Lazarides, MP II Thessaloniki. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the former Presidents of Parliament, representatives of unions and dear compatriots, in what words can one describe what has been suffered by the Greeks of the Pontou? How should the pain, pain, sorrow and crack of what the Greeks experienced from 1914 to 1923 be described? The genocide of the Greeks of Pontou refers to massacres, displacements against the Greek populations in the region of Pontou, which were carried out by the New Turks movement during the period 1914-1923. It is estimated that it cost life to more than Greeks. The fewer survivors originally fled to Ano Pontto, a former Soviet Socialist Republic Union, Russia and Ukraine and after the 1922 Asia Minor Devastation in Greece. These events are officially recognised as genocide by Greece, Cyprus, Armenia, Sweden, certain federal republics of Russia, Serbia, many states of the USA and Australia. They are still legally recognised by international organisations such as the International Association of Genocide Studyers. Before the term 'genocide', there was the term 'crimes against humanity'. Genocide as a legal term was formed mainly in the Nuremberg trial in 1945, where the leadership of Nazi war criminals was tried. Specifically, the term means the methodical extermination, in whole or in part, of a national, racial or religious group. This is a primary crime, which has nothing to do with warfare. The one who provokes genocide doesn't exterminate a team for something he did but for something he is. In the case of the Greeks of the Pontus, they were exterminated because they were Greeks and Christians. The genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus is considered part of the unified genocide of the Hellenism of the East, which was one of the first modern genocides. It was a premeditated crime, which the New Turks government carried out systematically. The methods used were uprooting, exhausting in hardships, torture, hunger and thirst and death camps in the desert. The international literature and state archives of many countries bear witness to the heinous crime committed against the Greek people. The genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou was carried out in parallel with genocide against other Christian populations of the Ottoman Empire, that is, Armenians and Assyrians. The Greek Parliament recognised the genocide in 1994 and voted to declare 19 May as a day of remembrance for the genocide of the Greeks of the Asia Minor Sea. In 1998, the parliament voted unanimously to declare 14 September as the day for a national memory of the genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. Those who talk about ethnic cleansing are confusing with their dangerous views on issues that the international community has resolved. They cannot slightly disorientate the heart for crimes and atrocities against our ancestors when there are proven documentaries and testimonies. That's how they give off sins to criminals. The process of extermination of the Greek populations of the Sea is historically distinguished in three consecutive phases. The first phase starts from the beginning of World War I to the occupation of Banking from the Russian army 1914-1916. The second continues since 1916 and ends with the end of World War I 1916-1918. The last phase is completed with the implementation of the pact and the exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey, 1918-1923. The wave of mass persecution began in Pontos in the form of deportations in 1915. The deportations continued uninterruptedly and at the time the Russian troops entered the Bank in early 1916. Especially on the pretext that the Pontius supported the moves of the Russians, a large number of inhabitants from the regions of Sinopi and Kerasados were displaced in the inland of Asia Minor. There have also been compelling equalisation of women's populations. In 1915 it was a landmark for the Pontian Hellenism of Asia Minor. In that year and while all European nations were involved in World War I, the Turks drew up and implemented the plan to eliminate the Christian populations of Asia Minor. In June, the Armenians were exile and then the Armenians were slaughtered, and the first violence against the Pontian element began. According to Bishop Bankingus’ estimates, the number of victims of these policies reached about 100 thousand, for that time. The protests by Austrian and American diplomats against the Ottoman government were not stopped. The Austrian Foreign Minister's letter to Berlin states: "Turkish policy is through a general pursuit of the Greek element to exterminate Greeks as enemies of the state, as the Armenians before. Turks have been applying a regular displacement of the population, without discrimination and the possibility of survival, from the inside of the country, so that the displaced persons are exposed to misery and starvation. The abandoned houses of the outdated are looted by the Turkish barracks of punishment or burned and destroyed. All the measures that were on a daily order in the Armenian persecutions are now repeated against the Greeks." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, please, Mr President. Thank you. Nearly at the same time, the Austrian consul of Axe states: "As I have repeatedly pointed out, I consider the displacement of the Greeks of the Pontian beach..." - the coastal towns mean - "in the context of the implementation of the New Turks programme, which seeks to weaken the Christian element, as a catastrophe of the greatest resonance, which in Europe will have a stronger impact on the wilderness of the Armenians". In December 1916, the Turkish generals of Emmer and Talaat were prepared a plan for extermination and the civilian Greek population, the immediate extermination of only the men of the cities from sixteen to sixteen years and the general exile of all men and women of the villages in the intestines of the East with a programme of slaughter and extermination. Excuse me for interrupting. It's, you see, the excitement, because I'm a mouse origin. You will forgive me, because no one really can stand unharmed, describing all these tragic events. The project was launched and implemented mainly in the areas of Samsonda and Pafras. The region of Bankounta had escaped the fury of the Turks because it was occupied in April 1916 by the Russian army. This is where I'm going to give a parentheses. Only the area of Bankonda left intact for that particular time the New Turks, because that was where the Russian army, who protected the Greek population of Bankonta, was there. But when the Turks left in 1918, about half the population of the region left their homes and followed the Russian army during retreat. Most of the refugees settled in the Caucasus and Georgian coast region. The Pontius believed that the end of World War I would bring a definitive end to their suffering, but unfortunately they were disproved. Their calls for them to be included in the Greek state were not heard by Eleftherios Venizelos, who considered that Pontus was far away from the other Greek regions, thus being impossible to defend him from the Turkish raids. In return, Venizelos suggested that the Pontius should proceed with the creation of a federation with the Armenians. Indeed, Archbishop Banka Chrysanthos Philippidis and Armenian President Alexander Hatistian signed an agreement in January 1920 on the creation of a polarized state. However, in November 1920 the Armenian army was defeated in Erzerum by Kemal's forces, resulting in the Armenians recognizing and staying the Pontius alone. After both Russia and the withdrawal of the Russian army from the region, persecution was intensified. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. With the arrival of Kemal Ataturk in May 1919 and the elevation of his movement, the action of the naughty groups, Chetta, against Christian populations reached a peak. I'll speed up my speech. I'd like to mention the number of victims. From the outbreak of World War I 1914 to the Asia Minor Destroyment in 1922, the New Turks with the hard measures taken against the Greeks of the Pontus - with the method of exiles, rapes, massacres, depletions and hangings-, during Panaretos Topalidis, destroyed: during the period 1914-1918 a hundred seventy-seven thousand six Pontius. During the period 1918-1922, nineteen thousand, twenty-two, eighty-seven thousand, six hundred ninety-eighty Pontians, 41.56% in total, nine hundred ninety-seven thousand Greek inhabitants. According to Balabani, the losses of the Pontius, according to the "Black Bible" of the Central Council of the Pontians in Athens, amount to three hundred and thirty-five victims until 1922 and three hundred and fifty-three thousand by March 1924, which exceeds 50% of the total population of the Greeks of the Potto. This is where I want to do a parentheses. In a private conversation I had with the late Neptune Enecid in Thessaloniki, he told me that, according to new evidence that had been discovered from the records that were constantly opened by the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the number of victims was more than four hundred thousand. Of course, it was a private conversation. It's not written anywhere by the late Polychrone Enepicidis. In any case, I must mention this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u25	But finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. To close, I'd like to lighten my report. It was a selective part of Hellenism that lived in the north of Asia Minor, in the region of Pontou, after the collapse of the Byzantine Empire. They may have been a Greek minority, 40% of the population, but they quickly dominated the economic life of the region, mainly living in urban centres. Their economic recovery was combined with their demographic and spiritual rise. In 1865 the Greeks of Pontou amounted to two hundred and sixty - five thousand souls. In 1880, in three hundred and thirty thousand. And at the beginning of the 20th century, they were more than seven hundred thousand. In 1860 there were a hundred schools in Pontto, while in 1919 they were counted in a thousand four hundred ones. Make the percentage of the population with schools to see how much the Greeks of Pontou were paying attention to the issue of children's education. Among them, among these schools, is the famous "Bank's Treasury". I would like to say, by closing that the blood of innocent victims is still asking for justice. The relentless great Pontius politician, Leonidas Jasonides, said: "Let us dry up, if we deceive you as the oldest Pontius earth." I close here with the phrase of my grandfather, Grandpa Savva Lazarides, who in his descriptions of what had happened to Pontto then closed down, saying: 'Cammyan and I'm teasing'. So I too close my position: 'Cammyan and we will overthrow the innocent victims'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u27	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Marios Georgiadis speaks for himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the Union of Centres, it is a particular honour to welcome the day of the memory of the Polish Hellenism. I've got a mouse root myself. My grandfather, Ioannis Mendesidis, came a refugee from the Bank. From the Bank of the Empire of the Great Communies, the last independent Greek state of Asia Minor, the last proponent of Hellenism, the great urban and spiritual centre of Pontius for two thousand six hundred seventy-eight years, the Metropolitan Chrysanthos who, during his two-year presidency, managed to unite Turks, Greeks and Armenians, giving a true example of democracy, isocracy, harmonious cohabitation of Christians and Muslims. So today, regardless of our special place of origin, first of all as humans and then as Greeks, we are in solidarity with the descendants of the Greeks of Pontou, those who, after the genocide, stood up to the Greek fountains of the main Greek area, incapacitating with their merits and their Greekity the areas in which they settled after the uprooting. One man four centuries before Christ lit a light at noon and went back to the streets looking. And when someone asked him "What are you looking for?" he replied "man I am asking". Once again, they ironed him into unclean spaces. He answered them "And the sun enters unclean places, but it is not polluted by them". He, ladies and gentlemen, was Diogenes the Cynic, or "Diogens from Sinopi", one of the most important representatives of philosophy. Today it is studied in all the universities and schools of the world as a model of sincerity, simplicity and revolutionary mood. Diogene was Pontius. Sinopi was the first Greek colony of Pontou. Banking and Kerashunta were the colonies of Sinopi. The Greeks of Pontou are mentioned by several ancient writers. The ancient Greek astronomer Heraklion, historian and geographer Stravon, and several others, came from Pontos. Therefore, Pontus has been the heart of Hellenism and not only Hellenism but also of Ancient Athens, the Republic of Pericles. Pontian Hellenism suffered a great deal. The abundance of the Bank in 1461 by the Ottomans did not alter their mind and Greek conscience, even though they lived detached from the national body. Although they were minority, they quickly dominated the economic life of the region, mainly living in urban centres. In 1908 it was a landmark for the Ottoman peoples. That year it manifested itself and prevailed the New Turks movement that pushed the sultan. The hopes for reforms within the dying empire of many, but soon disproved. Already from the New Turks movement and new Turkish nationalism were the extinction of indigenous peoples through the preparation of a plan of persecution of the Christian populations, Islamism and extortion of the region. I'll apologize, too. Although prepared, excitement is great and I can't be perfect enough in what I'm saying. No one disputes the systematic and targeted aggressive practice of the Turks of the time against the Pontians. The noise that has recently emerged in Greek society from deep unintentional sources that this is ethnic cleansing rather than genocide, deeply offended the Pontians. Eight hundred fifteen prosperous communities were completely destroyed. All the Greek villages with the thousands one hundred and seventy - four churches and the ninety - sixty schools were looted and burned. Mass executions, massacres, numerous hangings in Amusea are the greatest evidence of this systematic extinction. The Greeks of Pontou, men, women, children, together on the basis of an organized plan, had to be exterminated as the last by mass massacres, rapes, plundering, destruction, the notorious "Buru Study" - working battalions - exiles and expulsions which were no other than marches of death in order to be devastated by the brutal ancient Greek regions of the northern coasts of Asia Minor. This plan of extermination, literally executed, was deliberate and premeditated. These monstrous acts and various atrocities value several historians for overcoming the horror of even the Armenian massacre of 1915. What the sultan failed in five centuries was made by Kemal in five years. The uprooting and the climate of terrorism force those who survive to take the refugee route to Russia, while around four hundred thousand came to Greece. With their knowledge and work, honesty, honesty and labour they made a major contribution to the restoration of a seated Greek state at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, while Turkey is trying to cover this issue, there will never be a reconciliation. If the memory of the victims is not restored, people will not be able to heal their wounds and continue. Turkey must formally apologise and recognize the genocide of the Pontians and all the Christians of Asia Minor for a peaceful future in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is a tribulation and it is a national crime that there are among us political persons who deny the term of the genocide of Hellenism. There was no clearance, ladies and gentlemen, there was systematic extermination, systematic extinction. There was a Greek genocide of the Pontou. Precise historical knowledge does not lead us to intolerance. Ignorance is the one hiding the real dangers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, I'm gonna need it. These uprooted countries of Hellenism have many things to teach us today. This constantly betrayed people have learned to bloom in the wilderness. He has learned to build palaces and create worlds in the most unfavorable conditions. We're grateful to have the Pontius among us. We are proud of our fellow citizens who bring with them their long traditions. Let history be a lesson. Don't let people out of their homelands ever again. Let us not count on political segregation from human suffering, from individual, true dignity. Our brothers Pontius, thank you for being with us. I will close, like Mr Lazaridis, we have a common destiny: "Get out, if we devour you, O Patrios Pontian land." "Don't forget the gum if I'm going back home with Ponton." We're all Greeks of Pontou. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I was informed by the New Democracy MEP, Mr Antoniadis, that, in addition to many other events, there are three events that are going on these days: until Sunday at the Convention Hall of Syntagma Square, there is a documentary and photography exhibition, I suppose. Today, in the Constitution at 19.00 on the same subject there is an open event. And Saturday at 20:00 in Callimarmaro, likewise. Also, there has been a resolution from the Pambodian Federation of Greece [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, presents for the Minutes the above resolution, which is in the archives of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like here to keep a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the Pontius genocide. [[At this point there is one minute silence in memory of the victims of the Pontus genocide]] Their memory is eternal! [[Upright Members applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, the special session for the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Pontou has been completed. We will be adjourning the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the private school of Pavlopoulou. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first question under number 868/16-5-2016 of the First Circuit of Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of National Defence, on measures to maintain and restore the Heidari Concentration Camp and the promotion of the space as a Monument of National Resistance. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor for two minutes to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u32	I would like more time in my prototype. Secondary will be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u33	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u34	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, good morning. Greece is the only country at European level that, historically spaces have not emerged in museums, I would say, accessible and visited to all citizens. I'll speak more specifically. The Chaidario camp, as we all know, operated as a concentration camp from September 1943 to September 1944. In this camp has left a building, "Block 15", in which Greek patriots, fighters, Jews, were tortured, and then transferred to the car parks in Germany. This area, namely this building, "Block 15", is currently in a situation not very good, not accessible and visited to everyone. It is logical that, since it is a camp, there should always be permission from the Army General Staff to visit this site. On the other hand, it is an area that has been declared, I mean "Block 15", by the Ministry of Culture in 1987 as a historically preserved monument. In fact, in the past, there has been a response to the request to convert it into a museum from the Employees of Modern Monuments of Attica, the Directorate-General for Restoration of Museums and Technical Works. Minister, knowing both the government's interest and your confidence, personally about this area, because you have made some moves, I would like to mention the following: Members of SYRIZA three times we have tabled - and since SYRIZA was opposition in 2013 - a relevant question to the Ministry of National Defence and, of course, to the Ministry of Culture, about what is going to happen to this area, 'Block 15'. These three questions were recognised by everyone by the need to do some work in the space and to become a monument of national resistance. On the other hand, however, the building is in a bad state right now. I'm figuring out some photos here about the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Harula (Hara) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There's no question of stagnation of the building itself. It's just that some work has to be done outside, so that there can be, I can say it like that. I would also like to tell you the last question we had asked in November 2015. You replied to us, Minister, that although there had been an attempt to get into the previous NSRP, but it was not the Ministry of National Defence in this process and an attempt would have been made to integrate the restoration work, to become eligible in the new NSRP, after a specific study, with a study desk and with the necessary assistance of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Where is this story? Has this project become eligible in the new ESRB? There is, according to your answer, a techno-economic report of solid life interventions in the building, etc. by the PRS - so that I do not think much - the cost of rehabilitation has been mentioned around EUR 64,000 now. This report is being reconstructed by the GES, after its autopsy of engineering, in order to include the measures necessary to limit the initial cost to a minimum. In fact, you mentioned in the question that on the basis of the above-mentioned technology report, you are planning to carry out projects, with care and costs of the GES, in the first quarter of 2016. I would like you to tell us, therefore, that this time has passed - on what basis is the whole story. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. The reason is the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. I'm going to start with the questions, not the history, which is already known. The last time I was in Karaiskaki A, what is called part of the camp of Haidario, was about a month ago, at the occasion of the celebration for the seventy years of the Transit Arm. There, in my speech, I was with the Chief of GES Mr. Telidis and the Secretary-General, Mr. Tafyllis, who also pointed out the importance of the building as a historic monument and committed myself to taking initiatives to preserve, rebuild and transform it into a museum, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Sport. I had mentioned a cost of about 60,000 - the exact amount - with funding from the Ministry of Finance and expressed my optimism, to include this project in the programming of the GSP, namely the proposed projects and the new NSRP 2014-2020. This area must be visited and open to the general public. I pointed out, as you mentioned, the necessary assistance from the Ministry of Culture. Of course, the techno-economic report confirms that the building is not in danger. This techno-economic report has been drafted by the ANS and speaks of maintenance costs, etc. What did we do? Taking into account, of course, his finances today, we re-drafted the report from the military service. The cost this time and with the same powers is EUR 35,600, including VAT. We forwarded it to the Ministry of Culture for approval. The Ministry of Culture approved immediate lifelong work and individual rehabilitation and made some additional additions. Therefore, this is the issue on which the GES has already allocated EUR 35,000. It has become a selection of the project contractor. The relevant contract has been signed. All preparatory work has been carried out on the start of work, which will be done under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture, and we expect this phase to end in mid-July. From that point on, we are in permanent cooperation with the Municipality of Haidario, who has had many years, I would say, calling for the exploitation, etc. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] What are we looking at? First of all, there is an earlier study of the Ministry of Culture, by previous governments, which, for the promotion of space, all the work, etc., requires a sum of about EUR 1 million. What did we do? In a meeting with the Region, Mrs Dourou, we consider that we have found a way to get this amount - if not all, at least the biggest part - to pass through the Region of Urban, to make it available to the Region of Attica to the Ministry of Culture, so that it really starts precisely for what you said, that we have not shown historical monuments, historical sites with multiple possibilities at the moment. A second problem, which we are currently facing, is the issue of accessibility to space. For too long there have been various studies to become streets, alleys, etc. In cooperation with the Chief of GES, we do not consider the possibility of special solutions, but to make a total concession of the small area, which is already on the edge of the camp, so that, in agreement with the Municipality of Haidari, the Municipality of Peristeri, the development link of the municipalities of Western Athens, this whole piece will always start to work with the supervision of the Ministry of Culture and with the cooperation of the interstate business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u37	Good. The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u38	I'll be brief, as I said before. All the good things we have heard from the Minister. I said it in my protology. It is also the responsibility of the Ministry and of course the government in these matters. The nature of the question was to speed up some things to the extent possible. Last Saturday I was in the area. There was an event from the periphery. The previous event took place from the municipality. There are various kinds of events taking place in the space. Schools go to school, young people take part. Historical memory is the one that disciplines the new generation. It will also play this interdisciplinary nature, I would say, the promotion of space, the free access to all citizens. I'll say again that schools may go on special leave. It could be a monument of national resistance. It has also been mentioned by the competent district of Attica that if it is not possible to move forward, and it is a matter of economic importance, it is also prepared for the region to allocate this funds so that restoration can proceed. I'm just filing it. As I said before, there may be no problem statically, but the building has a major problem and it is captured. Whoever goes to see it will know. You also referred to your cooperation with the region. I wish we all wish the world in West Athens, which is also the region of interest, that this project will soon be implemented, which will be very important. In our home country there is no space of historical memory, as there is throughout Europe, which is displayed in such a way, with access to everyone and with a strong symbolism that we need especially today. In Europe, unfortunately, we see a setback in some extreme right-wing perceptions. So these spaces also play a different role when they manifest themselves symbolically for us and for the next generations, but also for the fighters who gave their blood in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u40	Only for a few seconds would I like the floor. As I mentioned in my prototype, we cannot say that we are at the end of a struggle that has been taking place for many decades - to which I have personally participated - but we are at least at the beginning of the end. I hope, therefore, that, once lifelong learning is completed in the middle of July, we will need all these procedures that we have agreed with Mrs Durou, Mr Choka and the Ministry of Culture. I'm sure it'll be two years. Until then, the General Staff of the Army has taken care, as he used to do from the past, to ensure that the area is both visitable and good for the visit. By the way, I would just like to say a word. We need to take care of a lot of these buildings. Together with the Mayor of Sidiki and the Ministry of Culture, we take care to make use of the fortress line that starts at Kilkis and ends in Komotini, I think, starting with the process of the Ropel Fort and from the Sastibey Fort and from a series of others. Of course, all twenty-one will not be exploited. However, it is certain that they may give a huge boost to the development of tourism in the region and to its naturality as well as to other economic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u41	We move to the sixth under number 837/6-5-2016 topical question from the Deputy Laconia of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence on the "Greek Defence Systems". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsats. Mr Davakis has the floor to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, all the questions I have put to you in the timely question and you know them fully reflect the situation in which the Greek Defence Systems are currently in place. And the question raised by these questions - the big question - is, finally, this government, which you are now representing, what it intends to do with the Greek Defence Systems. And I say this because, in addition to some statements, some specific interventions or meetings and dismissals - because we also have redundancies for which we have spoken and you know - there is nothing on the horizon that I would say creates a favourable perspective for the Greek Defence Systems, with what this means for the staff, the company's perspective, for the other companies, which are and compose the concept of NSAs. And I would like to ask this question, which has been discussed several times in this Chamber by other colleagues, to clarify, at last, what is going to happen immediately. In other words, there are a number of questions that go on, clearly, and you too, because you are the Ministry's political leadership. In June will you have to pay employees' wages and insurance contributions? I watched you months ago on a morning show about the construction of military clothing. What about Electrical Engineering in Kymi? They are still ringing in the ears of the workers there, the statements made by Mr. Quisy, your former colleague, who said 'Everything will be solved, everything will be done' and so on. The resolution programme, which the previous government, Mr. Samaras, signed, and we received 35 million from which was a tonic injection for the NSA, is progressing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This programme was signed on 13 December 2013. What about this program? Is there anything that you could bring into this Chamber and officially, now, the National Representation should be recorded? It's a big deal about the Hellenic Defence Systems, our Greek defence industry, you know, you've been informed. From there on, what's going to happen? We've reached the point where we can say today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u43	In your dentistry, if you please, the rest, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u44	Please, I would like some clarifications and some immediate but also simple ones - because in this Chamber we are suffering from simplicity - answers which I would particularly like to hear from those who work in these systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u46	First of all, I would like to apologise to Mr Davakis for having forced him, as did Mr Saridis, to put the question back. But you understand that a massive workload has led me to it. I promised you I'd come and answer, so I came. You know that the Hellenic Defence Systems, for which we are all interested, are a company that has been producing deficits since 2004. I do not in any way want to see any attempts that have been made in the past at this level, but what I have to assess is the result and not the effort to do things from now on. Because it's not about talking about the past, it's about there having an experience to move on. As you mentioned, in recent months of 2013, an agreement was made with the institutions - with the troika - and with the approval of the Eurogroup...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u47	Before it was called a troika.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u48	Yeah, I say it again so we don't get involved. ...as an attempt to restructure it. The result of this agreement, which began in 2014, i.e. after a whole period of time, did not, in my opinion, address the company's major problem. I'm going to tell you a few things that I told both the board of directors of the company and the directors of the company at an extraordinary meeting that was only held on Monday, apart from the fact that I'm very close to the company. In fact, one of my advisers only has as a job to see and help S.H.I.E.L.D. and S.E.L.D. That's the job I've given him. So I have a pretty great knowledge. The problem with NCAs is not a liquidity problem. And in answer to one of the questions as to whether they will be paid in June, they will be paid in July and August, and that is what we are going to do in that direction. The company's problem is structural. It's the way this company is set up. And so any interventions that were going in this way and did not solve the problems. For example, the intervention for the resolution programme that you put carried 93% of the debts to the existing company and defined the liquidation of the political systems of NSAs that are in operation and concerned with simply NSAs that have assets and the electromechanical Kem and MBI. That's where we've gone well. I have also discussed with the workers, because there were a number of things which, from wrong information, by mistake knowledge, said that the EBU would be turned into a military plant and don't worry at all. But if it is to be transformed into a military plant themselves, they cannot work on it, they must be civil servants and I have explained it to them. So we are looking for other solutions within the process, but in compliance with the previous government's agreement, that this procedure should be put into liquidation. There are a number of efforts that have been made. I want to tell you this. I on whose boards I have supervision, or whose client I am, as a Ministry of National Defence, always mean and I will say so, I say this. I trust you, I will supervise you and I will help you, I will not tell you exactly what to do. You go ahead and we'll take all the responsibility together. From there on whatever changes are to be made, they will be made. I'm talking about the redundancies process. Four out of six were managers, the other two were not managers. I asked for one case to be checked. So we have to solve the structural problem, because at the moment on the basis of the agreement we should have five hundred workers. It is not a matter of redundancies, but based on the Annex to the Agreement if for one or two years they do not have to go to 384 or 348. So we must avoid this, but also make the factories work. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u49	Answer soon. And the rest after that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u50	Allow me, Mr President. Of the contracts you are asking if they have been cancelled and what, as the Management Board has informed us, one, the one with Morocco, not to read now the exact value of the contract - the value was 12.7 and the assessment of the NSAs themselves is that if it is executed we will not have a profit, we will have at least 4.5 million cassoura. Of course, I must say that there is - not for this contract - a way of management which must be seen again because sometimes many companies are forced to work on equal boats, equal waters for the cigarette. This is a matter that I gave them. At the same time, we took a number of decisions at this Monday's meeting, which are beginning and running, namely the relationship between the NSAs and the orders of the Armed Forces, the activation of a number of new production lines, young people that are old, but had been deactivated and the way in which the NSAs will be able to work and benefit the Armed Forces on one side with the terms of the European Union, but also with an export interest. Already, we're waiting to get a very big contract from India, that is, we've already qualified, we're first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u51	Good, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u52	I'd just like to say, maybe I don't have to come back. It is important, because there is also part of the structural problem, the way in which there is information in the political forces or in people, in MPs for the NSAs. I think that the timeliest and most valid is the one we are doing now and we are not talking about it at all. For example, questions and topical questions have been asked which said that the MELARA programme has been rejected by the Court of Auditors. I would like to inform you that the programme has been approved, which means that the NSAs have undertaken a programme worth approximately EUR 23 million - which we are starting to do - and it is also beneficial to both NSAs and our Navy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u53	Before giving the floor to Mr Davakis, I will make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-three students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Elementary School of Katerini. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speech has been made by MP Laconia of the New Democracy, Mr Davakis, for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u54	You have closed down, Minister, with a delight. The convention - which was part of the New Democracy - is being activated for the OTO MELARA, which is an ammunition that uses the Navy most. It's very important. Of course, the contract before going to the Court of Auditors was 95% ahead. In any case - as you have rightly said - we are all judged by the result. And the result is that the MELARA will begin to be produced in NSAs. The unpleasant thing is that I did not understand exactly that regarding redundancies. It's not the big deal. But it is a huge issue for the fired. They left six experienced officials from the Hellenic Defence Systems. They were expelled without any reason. You know that and we know that personally. I'd say the legal service was decapitated. Three experienced lawyers, lawyers from the NSA legal service, including the chief. And the administration does not give a concrete answer. Imagine that the employer will fire you, with a veil of mystery, which is often hand-to-hand, with regard to suspicions, shadows and so forth. These people are waiting to be restored. They have consumed their lives in the case called Greek Defense Systems. I would like a clear answer for those who are fired. You quite rightly said that what is being discussed in this Chamber is the clearest and most clearest in relation to discussions, suspicions and legends that we hear outside. I know about the meeting you had on Monday. Two information notes were issued by trade unions. Of these newsletters - they are like meeting press releases - some questions arise. The first question is: Is it true that the Competition Committee will ask the NSAs to recover around 60 million due to production subsidies - I think you mentioned it before - non-confidential activities? This action won't lead to the liquidation of the company? Secondly, you are committed to taking concrete action. You quite rightly said it was a structural problem. There are, of course, different approaches. Since the leadership says that the issue of NSAs is a structural issue, not an economic one, or anything else, then we say that we are accelerating in this regard. You said that you would take concrete steps to ensure that employees are paid to the DAS, as well as not to lose the company's tax, IKA and so on. What exactly are these actions? Thirdly, I repeat that the redundancies of executives and lawyers were done without explanation. We need to explain. You are a politician, you are an ideology defender of popular demands - as we all have to do in this Chamber - and the people are those who work in whatever capacity there. I would ask you very warmly to give me answers to the other two questions. The problem of NSAs is indeed a structural one. And I think that at the moment the political leadership must give a solution. We, New Democracy as a government have tried. And he tried, which you mentioned, and I think you mentioned them in a positive way, in a positive manner. What are you doing from now on? And I think that this question should finally be an opportunity to have a complete debate and to be cleared in every direction and to the workers and the proposed buyers as regards the future of the NSAs. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] As far as the contract with India is concerned, I would like more clarification if you were sceptical. Do we agree, advocating anything that will cause blood donation to the NSAs, but what is happening with this contract? Do you have anything to tell us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u55	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u56	In particular, Mr Davakis, first of all, on the issue with the Competition Committee, I must say that this is an issue that the worker's representative and no one else mentioned at the meeting as a possibility. At the moment, a decision by the Competition Committee does not exist. And, of course, it must not concern, as I say, a line of defence - the military part of the NSAs, but the political part of the NSAs that is being wound up. However, we are following this with the JRC and it is the one topic. The second issue of the construction has to do with the clientele. I want to tell you quite clearly. A company like NSAs cannot have 60% of the administrative staff, even with the reduction, and 40% in production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u57	Woman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u58	Not only in Kymi, but much more. These are issues which we need to see. Or it can't be that in the past time, production lines relating to small ammunition calibres have been stopped, which are the most demanded and we've been setting them up since the beginning. So we took Elefsina and took her to Lavrio and went by saying. These are the efforts we are making. I do not want to mention what I told them at a meeting of one by one, but I said very specific things, which we have been doing and are watching since Monday not only day after day, but time after hour. And I have to say that your question has made it easier for me to examine other elements in particular, and I think that is the procedure. Thirdly, for the procedure that concerns - let me say this - the relations of workers, I would like to say to you: I have said at the outset that I have confidence in the administration. I cannot intervene by saying 'Why are you doing this?' And that's not because I can't, but it won't be right. I would remind you, in a previous question by Mr Loverdos, that on the subject of the work of the legal department of NSAs - which also gives jobs outside of legal offices - to have ten lawyers - I had, at that time, told 11 lawyers and corrected me that it was ten - I consider this to be part of the structural problem. The evaluation of who, how and how are others of the administration. With regard to the six workers, of whom four had been or were officials, one case - I think we will both agree if we discuss it - could not remain because of the behaviour of the NSAs. But we are not judges in the sense that these things can be resolved in the courts too. And I know that one case was more misunderstanding and it should be solved. Finally, you all know - and it was announced in the press - that we were doing a process with the Minister and the co-legislative ministries concerned with the ODA. After a journey, which I have a duty on the part of the Government to go, it will happen again - and I promised this - that this same procedure with the NSAs, where the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction will take part. Because there are problems getting into business like that of India - and not to mention what it is about, but it's a very big project - and not having any workers to take them out and get into a modern-day slave trade process - which will stop - that is to say take a hire company for workers, which you need to train. That is not how it goes forward - and we agree on it - neither the company nor the economy. So, and tomorrow I imagine the day after tomorrow, we will have the opportunity to debate very much about the economy and how we will go from the recession to growth not only by measures, but also by other actions - that is what we will be concerned with - and we will have that possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u59	Next is the eighth under number 836/4/5-2016 topical question by MP MEP I of the Thessaloniki Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of National Defence on the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry ELVO. I ask everyone to show respect for time, because at 13.00 the committee begins on the bill and most of the ministers must be there. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on February 1, 2016 you visited the premises of the Greek Vehicle Industry in Thessaloniki and according to the official announcement of the Ministry you had a meeting with the worker union. You stressed in this meeting that ELVO is a privilege to the Greek state, which, however, has constantly enjoyed it in the past few years, with the ultimate aim and aim of leading to a total closure of the Greek Defence Industry. The current government, you stressed, is trying to reverse this situation. In particular, the Ministry of National Defence expresses its interest in taking over the supervision of ELVO, which currently has the Ministry of Finance and through it to assist in the reconstruction of the company. This, as you said, can be done in the first phase with various small programs of the Mississippi Army and at the same time with openings to armies from other countries. The ELVO case, you added, must have been closed by the end of February. However, given the government's decision to keep ELVO open and you have assured that you will do what is human, but also politically possible, so that this 'diamond', as you said, of the Greek industry is stabilised and developed. You ask, Mr Minister, what action have you taken in the time you have set yourself, and later in the proper functioning of ELVO, particularly in the area of the taking of domestic and international armaments programmes? What is the government planning for the future of the company, especially in the prospect of a complete or partial privatisation of the company? How do you plan to solve the financial suffocation problem of the company and in particular the outstanding state debt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Saridis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Saridis, for the question. First of all, I should like to justify the term'diamond' in a way that I think we can understand everyone and those who are not here, but those who see us. If you go out and notice buses, not only of the Army, but also of STSY and other heavy vehicles, etc., you will see the ELVO inscription and we must be proud of it, that we have in Greece an industry which can make heavy vehicles. The fact that we have managed to deceive it ourselves, rather than expand it, is for our own sake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u63	World originality!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u64	Yes, it is terrible for a company which can also have export and other interests. That is one issue, and I must tell you that I have made quite a effort and I find communication, particularly with the Ministry of Transport and Networks, so that there are programme agreements in this direction. This is the one, but I say - this is individual - as a member of the government. Let me say it this way, because the Department of National Defence in relation to ELVO is a client. This is the second issue. At the same time, we must stress, in order for everyone to know, that ELVO is in operation. The accident that ‘operating’ has certain characteristics. So, is the operation really working? My opinion is that it does not exceed 20% of its potential for what they are doing now. But what did I do next? There is first and foremost the debt of the Ministry of National Defence, which has recently been guaranteed by judicial decisions. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] The Legal Council should objectively go and appeal. And he appealed, otherwise they'd be responsible if they didn't. But what we have reached out to us, and for what we have the necessary permits from the Ministry of Finance, that is to say the necessary approval, is to make an out-of-court compromise - and I will tell you who we are proposing, without prejudging - until the legal procedure is finally done. The extrajudicial compromise that we have proposed and agreed with the clearer is the basic chapter which is due to start from now on and the debate to go only to the level of increases and interest. We are talking about 7 million out of the nine that have been dealt with and that is what we are going on with. The second thing I want to say is that the clearance procedure must be completed. I think it's been in the air for several years. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Only that the liquidation procedure must have two elements. Firstly, ELVO is unitary and we have also reached agreement with the clearer. So, it can't be. Secondly, the assets of the Armed Forces within ELVO, which is not valued in cash for a compensatory benefit, but at the value of the company's operation, must be guaranteed in one way or another. Right now it's acting as a loan to the company. Thirdly, we need to look at the possibilities in the new equity structure of a single company in public participation, so that we feel that we are using this part. I do not agree - and I want to tell you - that ELVO should only deal with military matters, it should be extended. The fourth point is that it is a bad experience. Well, let's talk about the good stuff, say the bad stuff. When we returned from Thessaloniki, we asked ELVO, based on a state of needs of the general staff, to give us honors. We need to change the way in which service prices are fixed and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u66	Just one second, Madam President, I don't know if I'm gonna need it. We should change him that way, because it is not competitiveness, so that prices come that were 20% and 30% above the usual prices we already purchase. As you can see, that's not how the companies go forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have spoken of an out-of-court settlement, but this out-of-court settlement to the debt - which you have actually made, has brought the state to the CF for the debt of 7 million - takes some time, and for this time that it takes, I would like to tell you, that at the moment, workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry are now three months unpaid. They have taken 500 euros for the sale of some parts of the total value of 190,000 euros. From this money they are also living from the answers we have received, we do not see how otherwise other revenue will come until this extrajudicial compromise is reached. I do not see how your answer, Minister, could reassure the employees of ELVO. You know, too, that the future of ELVO is essential to the future of its employees. The workers have back families. If what we are saying here today does not make sense in the ears of people listening to us, then how can we talk about possible growth in Greece? In any case, Minister, we want an answer here today from you, an official answer which reaches the ears of the workers and a clear, substantial answer, to be a satisfactory answer to the future of these people and the future of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u70	I will not say that the question of the payroll of the operation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, because it is an issue that I know and can answer. In relation to the first, all procedures have been completed. In relation to the extrajudicial compromise, the meeting of the Legal Council of State, which will conclude this procedure on 31 May, is expected at this time immediately after and in the manner in which it will be agreed, since the non-formal agreements have been concluded, this procedure will be initiated. Of course, this does not solve the problem of the company's operation. You know that in such companies the future of workers with the future of the company is a little - very common. Isn't that right? So, when I'm talking about one, I mean, I'm interested in the other. That is the main issue. What can we do and what have we done as a Ministry of National Defence? I would like to tell you that in my recent visit to Cyprus and after consultation with the clearer and administration of ELVO, we solved a time-consuming problem, finding a price for accessories that were made from cars - with Cyprus - and lakeing. This problem has been solved with the seven hundred thousand. At the same time, we have two contracts, which we are currently promoting, Convention 039D/2011 for seventy-six towing vehicles, it makes no sense for the type, which is the value of the 9.5 million and the second, the contract for the procurement of seven hundred ninety-sixty-sixty-three parts MS 240-290, which the contract is another 5.70,000. That's about the army of ours. And to prove even more what I am saying, it is already well known that there is a contract with the Egyptian army for some two hundred transport vehicles - BMP3 - so that there will be that. But I want to be completely clean. These are injections and these injections are not'short to the Lord'. The winding-up procedure of the company itself should be completed. I said this openly to the workers, because you know there are requests to return, to reverse the liquidation. In my opinion, that is not the point. To complete this process and to have a programme. ELVO has now stayed with a few workers on its own merits. It's not there the burden. It needs an integrated programme so that this company can be run and efficient and be profitable. I said some things that the Greek public can do, such as program contracts. We won't get the job of Mr. Costas Engineer from the neighborhood, but we can make a programme contract for the renewal of our fleet to buses, to OSH, to trains. In other words, there are such things, too much, that a wider debate would help me to share our thoughts. What have we secured? With these 7 million, one would say that about the payroll of the people working there, if I am not mistaken, at least by the end of 2016. With these orders we give some opportunity to have a financial flow in this direction, but with the completion of the process we must see the possibility that ELVO has to stand and, in our view, has to stand as a company, as a source of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 23 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 874/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, Minister for Culture and Sport, concerning the harmonisation of Greek legislation by the regulation of the "International Cycling Federation". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 858/12-5-2016 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance about the collapse of the economy of the Dodecanese. 3. The Question No 883/17-5-2016 by Mr. Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the criminalisation and repression of agricultural movements. B. Current Questions to the Second Cycle (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 875/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the planning of the Ministry for the new anti-nuclear period. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 851/10-5-2016, a topical question by MP II, New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Finance, concerning the change of attitude of the Greek Government to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 3. The Question No 852/10-5-2016 by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vayonas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "flying fallen of the land of the 40s and the current immoral demand of the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs". 4. The Question No 855/10-5-2016 by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance about the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELBO S.A.’). The topical and urgent question issue of Friday 20 May 2016 was incorporated into the topical and urgent question issue on Monday 23 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 872/16-5-2016 by MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Styriou to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the Government's intentions for the development of the Centre for the Training of the Neosclear Artas. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 881/17-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the payment of compensation to tree farmers in Larissa for their production destroyed by a recent glacier. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 873/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussias Prussias to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the timely spraying of mosquitoes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 882/17-5-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, and of the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the payment of compensation to farmers from the Municipality of Soufli of the Regional Unit of Evros, due to the disasters in natural and animal capital caused by the floods of 2015. 3. The question by number 871/16-5-2016 of the Independent MP from Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance regarding the suspension of extended hours of customs V and F Piraeus. 4. The Question No 843/9-5-2016 by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the payment of the funding of the school committees for the payment of the school cleaners. 5. The Question No 846/9-5-2016 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, concerning the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida. 6. The Question under number 825/254-2016 by MP II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question dated 829/25/2016 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the old EUR 90 million debt on urban buses due to previous administrations. 8. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health about the needs of the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki. 9. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. I inform you that the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Skourletis, will now answer two questions and we will then bypass Mr Bolaris - I say this for those Members who want to make their economy - and Mr Alexiadis will answer a question so that he can go to the Commission which is being discussed in the bill. We begin with Thursday under number 866/16-5-2016 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the impermeable introduction of electricity. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. It's an important issue. I would like today in the context of parliamentary control to inform Members of Parliament, but also citizens of electricity imports and electricity production in Greece. Imports now show that they account for 20% of domestic electricity demand and renewable energy sources another 10%. In March imports accounted for 25% of production and domestic RES accounted for 12%. At the moment, the electricity generation potential in March 2016 was 18,1 GWh and renewable energy sources had reached 4.6 GWh. Renewable energy, of course, is an area of development. We'll call the numbers. They are currently being subsidized with EUR 1.3 billion from the state budget, while at the same time they have received 8 to 8.5 billion loans if my memory is not cheating on my previous life in loans. It seems that Greece is going to the full dependence or a large part of its energy adequacy of imports. I won't read the rest of the suggestion, because it's in the Minutes. So you ask yourself, Minister: How do you intend to face the growing risk of our country's energy marginalisation? How will the energy future be redefined in Greece to survive in an environment of intense international competition? Why, while factories can outweigh domestic demand, are they, to a large extent, underemployed, thus seeing a steep introduction of electricity? How will it be achieved to produce cheaper energy, which could prevent the closure of factories or the redundancies of qualified personnel? What is the total demand for electricity in our country per year in the last ten years? If you have the evidence, testify to us. What percentage is covered by domestic production and what percentage of this need from renewable energy sources? And finally, in your opinion, are renewable energy sources helping to energy security and adequacy in our country, or does it have to change the production mix, so that it can become energy independent? Can you also add to us the list of companies that import electricity from which country and to what percentage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your question, Mr Kammene, you are essentially raising key issues relating to the whole energy policy in our country. That's not a question, that's a lot of question. In any case, I will try to answer your questions at some point in time. First of all, let us see some facts. From 2006 until now, we have had a reduction in total demand. In 2006, for example, it was fifty-three thousand nine hundred ninety GWh, while in 2015 it fell to fifty-one thousand fifty-five GWh. I am referring to years and not months and quarters, because that is how we can draw more safe conclusions. Is there a key question: Is there an issue of energy marginalisation in the country? I'm answering you no, from the start. None at all. There are infrastructures at the moment, so that in any case they can meet the demand and much more. From there on, however, we have to realise that the domestic electricity market is part of the wider European market. If we do not understand this, we will not be able to make the necessary adjustments and if we do not do them ourselves, then I fear that they may be imposed on us in a violent way. I would also say that in the context of the negotiation, over the last one and a half years, we have attempted to do this and have responded strongly to the current bill, which will be discussed at 13 o'clock in committee, in response to the plans for small PPC and privatization of IPTO. It is important to say once again that in this draft law, which is currently being tabled, these previous legislations are abolished. From there on, imports are the result of how the liberalised European market works. One imports because it finds more competitive prices, so that it shapes the overall level of prices within the country. So what's the challenge? How can we reduce domestic energy production costs? That is why, and not, of course, delusionally, we can raise borders at a time when the interconnections between countries are increasing and, in fact, show us that we will be talking very soon about a single energy market - and that is already the case - will be the case. In relation to photovoltaics, at this time the way they are imported into the energy market is well known. There are guaranteed prices. This was characterised by distortions. It was excessive prices, which enjoyed those who had invested, not on their own responsibility, that their state had reached such prices, and that reductions were made. It is a permanent issue of the deficit of the special account of the RES. But we need to know that because it's a closed circuit, the market, when you promise, and you give as guaranteed income to someone, someone else will pay for that. What do we care at the end of the day? We are interested in having reliable and cheap services in the world. This is another side. You have raised too many issues in connection with natural gas too. The way in which gas is exploited and penetrated in Greece was not the best, because instead of heading for combustion, it has been used for many years and through special conditions for the production of electricity. Of course, we are now at the happy juncture, which has fallen the price of gas and, indeed, is more competitive than that of natural gas based on other traditional forms of energy. All this creates a grid of situations, which we must see as a whole and be able to make those necessary changes so that - I repeat - we can adapt in such a way that the Public Power Corporation remains strong, but, above all, the state can also have tools for its own design. I'm telling you some figures and I'm stopping here because time has passed: in 2015, total demand was covered by 27% RES and hydroelectric. It's 17% plus 10%, actually. It is 18.7% from imports and domestic production from lignite, natural gas and oil was 54.3%. Natural gas and oil are, of course, imported. So, based on import and oil and gas, we still have money out. I repeat, however, that our design is at the moment and with the IPTO, which is in progress, to ensure the stability of the system in safety and finally to move towards a degression in current electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much for the answer. Your positive suggestion and the answer to my timely question about energy security is encouraging. It is something that must concern us all nationally, geopolitically and geostrategically. Unfortunately, PPC has a non-competitive price in the current or at the limit value of the system you are in the pool that trainers do or in any other way this power value is made. I was worried when I saw some time that we were importing electricity at night. At night, lignite, coal usually enters, because it's cheap. We know when it stops, you don't press a button to start the lignite factory. It takes eight or ten hours to get ahead and in some cases sixteen. So you need to cover the gap. Also, some times we've exported electricity to the surrounding markets. As far as I remember, we were giving Albania, Skopje, Bulgaria, Turkey and Italy power. Now we give it occasionally to rare. I would like to see, since we can set up a costing for the strategy for the next five years, and the viability of PPC's own investment and maintenance of existing plants or new investments in new forms of energy, whether in combination or whatever happens and decides by the Ministry or by strategically. I will close my suggestion here, to save time, saying that we should also pay attention to the company's finances, its reserves and the requirements, which exist for low, medium or high consumption, of people who do not pay the bills. We also need to see the context in which a PPC client leaves PPC, goes to the private body and leaves his debt to PPC and goes "clean" to the private body and makes his agreement to supply electricity. We need to see all this because PPC is a strategic company for Greece and we have a very important role to play. And when the oil market is built and investment in the extraction of natural gas and oil in our country, which we have too many reserves, PPC will have to play a very important role. However, this means that with an increased electricity price either at the limit price or at any other price, traders who have a higher margin of profit in importing and selling the electricity in Greece are favoured. It is also a mere commercial practice, which we should have in mind. That is, not to give an incentive to gain from import, by not competing with a national product, which is electricity and PPC. Our government is here to exalt this whole situation and "save" PPC, that is to say, to have a strategic step in the Balkans and in the area that our country operates and we all live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u78	Mr Kammene, first of all you asked a question about which companies imported. I would like to inform you that this is a confidential information which we do not have. So I can't answer you. However, I know that you have been informed of the quantities available from each country at the level of net imports. That is, on imports minus Albania there was a million five hundred eighty thousand three hundred eight MWh, through Macedonia two ninety-sixty thousand fourteen MWh, through Bulgaria, which is the largest, four hundred seventy-sevenths five MWh, through Turkey seventy-seventy-three thousand thirty-eight and via Italy one million ninety-three-three-three-three thousand nine-six MWh. You'd notice I told you about clean imports. So there were times when we were exporting. The system limit value is something that is formed every day. I would like to say, therefore, that it is a dynamic game for imports and exports. I repeat, therefore, that a strategy that reduces PPC's variable costs will enable us to exploit our own national resources as well. Of course, all this is always done within the framework of a strategy, which is the rehab of fossil fuels. This is a general direction, it is a national direction. This can obviously be done not by putting a switch and closing lignite plants, but by making these necessary modernisations through the creation of new plants, less polluting, which will therefore have fewer releases of pollutants, which, as you know, are also a burden, whenever we pollute the environment. This is a general direction, not only European but globally. That is what we need to take into account when forming our national energy strategy. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the Ministry of Energy, the crucial moment for the Public Power Corporation is through a dynamic policy of partnerships to be able to encourage and harmonise with the changes made to the European energy market as a whole, in the context of its liberalisation, but at the same time to remain strong, even with participation, where it will have a minority role and character in new shapes. This - I repeat - is our plan, and it is just on the reverse of this violent effort, which has been to cut off a piece of PPC over the years and to be sold as much as in the given conditions of the economic crisis. At least in this field, I think we have a great success. From there on, in relation to the RES - and I would like to finish - our direction in 2020 is domestic energy produced by 20% of renewable energy sources. Is this form of energy more accurate? It is more accurate, but it is a choice to exist within the domestic energy mix. So we need to see how we remove the distortions that have existed so far. We're already doing it. There is a consultation of a new institutional framework and, now, I think, extreme situations are normalised, while at the same time, of course, we continue to motivate those who want to invest in these forms of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u79	I have a question about the importers' confidentiality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u80	Tell them to the Competition Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u81	There can't be any. It's a business business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u82	Athanasios Papadopoulos will now be discussed with the ninth number 840/9-5-2016 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition, Athanasios Papadopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, regarding the non-preferential submission of a professional farmer's status for rural photovoltaics. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, it is well known that PV power producers, who are professional farmers to declare this in the first quarter of each year through the information system, are obliged by Law 4254/2014. We see that a large number of them for the year 2016 - unfortunately for various reasons, of course, the negligence - did not make the submission of these declarations in the short term. It is well known, however, that the statements are made in many other ways, at OPEKEPE, TAXIS and so on. I therefore think it would be appropriate to give them the opportunity to encourage the production of electricity by producers, who are activated as farmers by profession and to have the regulation that has been made for 2015 as well. Then there was an arrangement with No.4342/9-11-2015. We propose that there be a corresponding arrangement this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u84	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u85	I think we'll have time to win, so we'll be short. First of all, let us remember once again that in 2014 there was a reduction in guaranteed prices. This obviously gives the state side an insolvency against individuals who had invested in other conditions. On the other hand, however, it was - one would say - a necessary step, a necessary act, given that at a time when total investment, income and values are being regressed, we cannot have guaranteed yields of 11%, 12%, 17% and it goes on to say. I repeat that the cost of these investments is all there is, and ultimately consumers, households or industrialists. You raised a question. First of all, I remind you that we have already done this in 2015 for the previous year. Indeed, because your objections are reasonable, the question you raise is that we are currently working - and we have worked out - on legislation which will enter into the next bills, so that this possibility can be reopened and that we can now have confirmation of the status of a farmer. What I would like to say, however, and I think it is equally important for the rural world, is this: the Ministry is currently working - and at the end of the month we will be able to make it a reality - the possibility of adopting, introducing and operating vitual metering, i.e. virtual self-production. This is very crucial for farmers. With a clock, that is, which is in a specific space, with an RES unit you will be able to connect not only the watch that is next, but also watches located in other regions, because as we know the rural lot is not single. At the same time, we will give the possibility of subsidising viral metering - and there have already been the corresponding programmes that have been launched - through the new NRP. You realise that this is a very great opportunity for the rural world to enter into this function of self-production and for the next few decades to eliminate almost the cost of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u87	I too am grateful, because, on the occasion of this timely question, the Minister has been given some guidance on how we can really give more stimulus to the objective undertaken by the Government, by the Ministry, to have 20% of renewable energy in 2020, to be encouraged by these interventions. Thank you very much for the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u88	Does the Minister want to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u89	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. We will make a derogation to the programme, so that Alexiadis will answer his first question under number 860/13-5-2016 of the second cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, concerning the imposition of a stay fee in rooms and hotels. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I must say that Mr Alexiades once again shows proper attention and respect for the parliamentary procedure. In fact, it is one of those colleagues who are almost always responding to the questions put to the House. Some of his other colleagues should also follow his example, because once again, Madam President, the current questions will be dealt with almost as a whole, since the ministers or government officials are not here today. So, Mr Alexiadis, the opportunity is once again to discuss a very important issue, as I raised with my question, in relation to the imposition of a night's charge, which, moreover, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government seems to have announced since 2015, when the debate on the abolition of reduced VAT rates on the islands also started. I begin and believe that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is now targeting tourism. And that seemed because the Prime Minister at the annual meeting of SETE at the Congregation of Music, Madam President, has now announced, without any hesitation, unlike cynicism, the imposition of the night's fee, making us "grace", transferring in 2018 instead of direct enforcement. In fact, he said, "Okay, in the other measures that we have imposed in the past, we do not get you the focus factor at 24%." We had to say "thank you"! But here, Minister, you too, in previous debates and in public speech - you have tabled the view that there are also 'good' taxes that should have been imposed. Who do you mean, Minister? What are the 'good' taxes? Are the ‘good’ taxes imposed on the tourist product as a whole, which are no longer competitive? I fear, Minister, that the economy will collapse with the tax raid you have imposed in the previous period. So, in going to my question, I would like to ask three specific questions: Have you calculated what financial benefit you will have at the end or during the imposition of the tax? What is the financial objective? The second question is: Do you understand, Minister, the total burden on tourist enterprises, on tourism in general, and how much will we have from public revenues as a loss, since you know it, the Greek tourism product will no longer be competitive with neighbouring countries? Third question. This seems, Minister, to be a capital tax, a horizontal tax. How do you intend to impose this tax? In a hotel, for example, three or four stars respectively, the prices the customer pays are not the same. So what the hotel will collect will not be the same. Where are you going to collect this capital tax from? From the client? From the hotelier? From the rooms? It also raises the question of whom it will be paid. From the hotelier or from the client to the state? I look forward to your answers, and I hope that the issue will be clarified, following the incorporation of this measure into the draft law tabled today, a bill of seven and a half thousand pages, which I do not know which of the current Members have been able to study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u92	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Mr von Habsburg (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Already in Article 53 of the bill, there is the relevant provision that answers your question. Of course, I had to come and reply from respect for the role of the honourable Member and Parliament. What does Article 53 refer to? It is specific as regards the introduction of this measure. It is a concrete report from the General Accounting Office on the financial implications, so I will not waste time on it. But as far as the general issue you raise is concerned, the government does not target tourism. The government is forced by means of an agreement which was passed by a large majority in the Greek Parliament - I would remind you that two hundred and twenty-one Members voted for Law No.4336 - and the measures we now bring to Parliament are the measures provided for by Law No.4336. Of course, two days will be allowed for the Committee on Economic Affairs and two days for the plenary, all of this being discussed in detail. But in the field of tourism we do everything possible in this context, so that we do not create problems. We understand what these arrangements create, but, as the Prime Minister clearly said last week, it is a measure that we were obliged to adopt. It is a measure that will apply from 1/1/2018 and we will see until then how the course of these measures goes. There are a number of other measures in the tourism sector that we are taking in the direction of strengthening tourism. For example, we do not create any additional problem in the islands on our eastern borders and accept the great flow of refugees, with an increase in VAT at this time, as we were obliged by the resolution adopted by Law No.4336. Another characteristic example is that we brought the traffic charge provision with the month or quarter, which helps many tourist businesses only get traffic charges for the tourist season. Therefore, the answer to your question has been given by the specific law that his debate begins in a few minutes' time in the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which I must go and thank you, Madam President, for facilitating. As far as the general political issue is concerned, I think we have responded in our own view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Consola, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, Mr Alexiadis comes to the National Representation to say that the New Democracy also adopted the agreement last July. I would therefore remind the Minister that, while respecting the conditions imposed in the country and because of the failure of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the New Democracy really supported the government, so as not to collapse since it did not have the majority it needed. It had a hundred and forty-six votes and the New Democracy had to give a full answer. Minister, in your reply, despite my respect and appreciation for you, you have not convinced me. You don't need to convince me, you need to convince the Greek and especially the people in the tens of small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece that are active in the tourism sector. Do you know why? It seems, Minister, that what is moving is taxed. Once again you want to be understood by saying that you have not imposed any higher tax rate on the islands in this period of migration. Of course, the history of immigration is another story. I must say, however, that if we wanted to get any more revenue, because that is what you have allowed it to be suggested, Minister, by 2018, that some compensatory amounts should be found. Let me remind you that the SETE had given you an answer, presenting a proposal for tax evasion in the illegal accommodation, in the units that operate illegally. It is about 270m euros that goes beyond tax evasion. What did you do, Minister, for that? Have you done a check in 2015? Can you give us information on how many checks have been carried out by the Ministry of Finance in these accommodations, which could really give a solution to the crisis so that this tax is not reimbursed? Tax which is unfair and horizontal, a capital tax. How many checks have been carried out in the last 15 months? You know, Minister, the imposition of this particular night's charge, except that it is unfair, does not give any answers to the competitive advantage that the country has had up to now. I will give you a few examples. The VAT in the accommodation went to 13%. In Turkey it is 8%, in Cyprus 9%, in Spain and France 10%. In addition, Mr. Tsipras did not say too much or too much that we should have been at 24%, as you had heard at the SETE. Yeah, but the VAT on the cafeteria reminds you that he went to 24%. We had made sure it was at 13%. And listen to what's happening in other countries: In Italy, France, Spain is in 10% and in our neighborhood, twenty minutes from Chios, Samos, Mytilini and Rhodes, that is, Turkey, it's 8%. So Greece cannot compete with these. And unfortunately, at the time we're talking, the tour operator and the foreign visitor will choose cheaper destinations. You will soon see the results, Minister. You have the sensations and you are an experienced auditor, a man who has devoted years to it. You can find revenues from elsewhere. Please let tourism itself face the crisis, because it is the biggest pillar of economic development at this time in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u96	Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I have no further argument to argue. I think that the political arguments have been put forward. I would just like to make one briefing. In relation to the issue of shadow hospitality and controls, we have done too many checks and we are preparing new provisions. Also, in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism, we are on a very good way to control the new tourist season. But it's not a simple problem. It is a very difficult problem, which we face on the basis of international practices and what we can do on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u98	Is there any control over the illegal accommodation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u99	I'm talking about the so-called shadow hospitality, which under this concept is all these illegal accommodations, home hospitality via the Internet and so on. However, in relation to what we are going to do with revenue in general, income - and from the fight we are doing about smuggling and tax evasion in 2015 and 2016 - they show that, despite the difficulties that businesses and citizens have, precisely because there are actions to avoid tax evasion and smuggling, they are increasing. And they grow much longer than 2014, when the economy was different. Generally, however, on tourism issues, the Prime Minister analysed the government's positions with the greatest adequacy and it would be unnecessary for me to repeat them from here. I will not agree with your political assessment of what you have said. We, as a government, do our best to deal with the problems. At some point, however, the different political alternative must be tabled in this Chamber. If we weren't supposed to do this, what were we supposed to do? Because here we are listening to criticism and complaint even for measures that we are implementing, while the Civic Opposition has voted for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. We're going to the next questions. The sixth question, under number 865/16-5-2016, will not be answered for the first time by the Member of Parliament for the Flashing of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kolkalis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compliance with the rules for the prevention, control and eradication of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in ovine and caprine animals, due to the exceptional obligation of the Member. As I can tell you, as many questions as are not debated as a result of a failure by the competent ministers, they will be redefined for discussion. Thus, it is not debated because of the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Christos Spirtzi, because of the workload, the second with number 859/13-5-2016 timely question of the first cycle of MP of the Greek Republic, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the lack of political will of the Government to improve road safety in line with the objectives of the European Strategy and the National Plan for 2020. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr.Aristides Baltas, because of the commitments which have been made, the fourth is not discussed under number 861/13-5-2016. The first question of the Athens Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall of Concert Hall of Music. We are now passing on to the fourth with number 870/16-5-2016 topical question of the second parliamentary party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the reduction of the definitive basic payment entitlements for thousands of young farmers from a lack of information, arbitrary actions and mistakes of public administration. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Thousands of farmers saw their rights cut off on basic support. Most of them were young farmers from all over Greece, from the Peloponnese, Macedonia, Thrace, Epirus, Crete and elsewhere. They have lost rights, i.e. aid, i.e. income, from lack of early information, errors of public administration. The majority of them are two groups. There was no information, when they completed the E6 form for the transfer in 2014, that they would have to apply again in 2015, since the basis for allocation of rights and aid was in 2013. After all, they couldn't imagine, because these people said they actually took it in 2014 and in that sense, they thought they didn't have to apply again. So rights have been lost, that is, aid even for those left over were under 250 euros. As we know, under 250 euros are not given, they even lose the status of a farmer and, of course, those who had something more fooled. The main - and that is why we ask the question - is that they have no right to correct, to find their point. Another category is the thousands of farmers called and have joined the small farmers. They are those who take less than EUR 1,250 and, of course, do not enter the control process. However, due to a change in terms of terms and new conditions, they have exceeded this amount and some are entitled to also EUR 3 000 and EUR 4 000. However, despite the fact that they said so, the public service did not pay them off from the small-hearted regime and they continue to get the 1,250 euros, while much more is due. After all, they need them. What are we asking you for? Because the problems of small and medium-sized farmers are many, because these problems, the issues, the reductions concern poor farmers, but also young farmers who need them to replace older farmers, we call for the possibility of objections to definitive rights and for injustices to be corrected immediately and quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u102	Here, Minister, Mr Bolaris, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, my colleague. Your question is well founded and well documented. I will make the historical regression to focus on the point where it was wrong, so that we have problems and then I will refer to your second question. It is clear and well known that 2015 was the year of the first implementation of the new CAP for the period 2015-2020 and the year of allocation of the basic payment entitlements. This means that on 31-12-2014 the date of granting single payment entitlements, in accordance with the new criteria of European and national legislation, expired. You are well aware that the granting of these new rights in the basic year of reference was set in 2013. This is where we come into the matter. Reference year for the calculation of the unit value of the new entitlements of the main payment for the year 2015 shall be the year 2014. In order to calculate the initial unit value of the basic payment entitlements, account was taken of the value of the entitlements held by the farmer in 2014 and the necessary condition was the submission of a single aid application in the year 2014. The crucial thing in this process is that it does not include those rented by another farmer, but only the proprietary rights. The farmers, the farmers, who have not received - and that is where the problem is referred to - are the ones who did not make the statement as private. Therefore, for all farmlands there have been requests from tenants, these are out of the process. It is not provided for in the new CAP procedure. That is why you put the subject of information in your question. As you can see, this should have been in 2014. We are talking about another period in terms of government and management issues. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In this period, then, the Agency's claim - we have the continuity of the administration and we have to point out the claims - is that it has been made aware. From the intensity of the problem, for the thousands of producers who did not make the statements, it is clear that this information was poor. He didn't come down. That is why there were too many owners who did not apply for and there were respectively too many hirers who applied for, but these fields are no longer entitled to a subsidy. We have lost our support because we did not have the procedures as planned by the new CAP. On the second point, you are asking whether there is a possibility of objections to definitive rights. The new CFP procedure does not provide for objections to the definitive rights. Is that a matter of conversation? The Ministry thinks it's a matter of discussion. We, in fact, believe that since we have a number of thousands of issues from which it appears that there is right for the producer, the farmer, the issue must be raised. Already in cooperation with other countries - we will see you sooner - this issue is raised by the Ministry. As for the injustices to which you are rightly referring, for young people, small producers, I would like to point out by informing you of those farmers who have spent EUR 1.250, that they are now able to make a request for an award, so that they can go to the other category and be entitled to the aid they did not receive, because they are part of the small producers' system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u104	I would just like to ask you to keep a little time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 12th and 18th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] This procedure in which you see permission from Parliament is called 'parliamentary control', in which Members ask the ministers about various issues of their competence and the ministers answer the specific times laid down in the Rules of Procedure. That's why there's not much presence. After all, a weekend bill is already being prepared and discussed by other committees. Mrs Manolakou, here, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u105	The issue, Madam President, also concerns many of the farmers from Chania. In Crete at least five thousand are the wrongs. Minister, with the new CAP, the process has become more complex, more bureaucratic and trains farmers. It is no coincidence that many of the Agriculture Ministers in the Agriculture Council, but also MEPs, are calling for simplification of procedures. This demand must also be from here, because their victims are farmers and are poor farmers and young farmers. According to what we are describing, it is characteristic at the moment that they are victims of complexity. So they're wrong and they don't have the right to object so they can find their point of view? From now on! Finally, does such a procedure make it easier for small, poor farmers to give up? Would you give them a kick in these procedures to facilitate the concentration of land and production on the larges, which will monopolize the primary sector? Because you have this goal in every process. I say this because wronged farmers throughout Greece are currently estimated at about twenty-eight thousand, five thousand of whom are from Crete. Right now, feeling injustice, because the consequences are scary. It is not that they are being cut off this year, they are being cut for five years. So for five years these people can't stand. You're saying public services have been informed. First of all, we don't blame the employees. We take responsibility for the administration, which had to have informed since 2014. The information was given in retrospectively, with the result that there are so many thousands of unjust persons who have lost rights and aids - and also do not have the right to object. That is unacceptable. We say that they should be given this opportunity, because it is absurd that such a policy which does not solve problems and expels farmers from the primary sector. It is unacceptable policy, and even when the rural population is old and we need to replace young farmers. In other words, the sufferings of the 'forgettable', which have reached 24% in the agricultural supplies, are not enough to bring about the increase in the ENPIA, while you said that you will abolish it - not only do you abolish it, but at the moment you are increasing it, at home, in the warehouse, in the staging room - they do not reach the ravines that come behind the other - only last month, in March, the revenues are reduced to the farmers, on the basis of statistics, by 6.5% - but now we also have to add the lack of information and errors. And they don't even have the right to right. As far as small farmers are concerned, you say that injustices will be rectified, as long as they object. I hope they do not lose this year's subsidy and have enough time in front of them for their objections. Finally, such a situation facilitates precisely the objective of the European Union's common agricultural policy. He wants farmers capitalists with large businesses and small farmers in Kaidas. Let farmers bear in mind this in mind so that they can also fight the CAP' s policy, but also your policy, which you are therefore implementing, by destroying thousands of small and medium-sized farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u106	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Colleague, I will stand on four points: The first is that small farmers have been able - and in 2015, they have at the moment - to make a declaration of indebtedness, to leave the small farmers' regime and once more, to go to the single market. The second is that the information we referred to - where we see a deficit, there was no information coming down - should have started from 2013, because these statements, which we consider to have been submitted and had a lack of information, were submitted by the declarants, the applicants, by 15 May. So there was an issue of planning and information, so that we had good statements in May 2014. The third issue, as I have said to you, is that the Ministry, the government, has the political will - in cooperation with other governments that identify the issue of the lack of ability for producers to object to the definitive rights - to put this at the level of the European Union, because in fact, when there are mistakes and we exclude producers, there is a question in relation to the legal culture and the legal European framework. There is a question when you are depriving a citizen of the right to appeal and claim his rights. On this basis, the question is now being raised. The fourth issue - and I close - is that in 2017 we have the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy. The Ministry has the will, but also the will to intervene, so that we have a plan on issues relating to the restructuring of the allocation of rights from the new aid. In this process, we are sure that we will also be able to resolve many issues with regard to this, but also with other issues that have been raised in this House. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u108	For three years, however, they will have been deprived of their rights, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u109	At this point we are going to ask other questions as a result of the Council's impediments. In view of the obstruction, therefore, of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi, who is outside Athens, the fifth is not discussed under number 869/16-5-2016. The first question of the Achaias MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, on the problems in the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca. Also, there is no discussion of the fourth under number 2808/1/93/10/2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. Furthermore, due to the workload of Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis, the third is not discussed under number 867/16-5-2016. An up-to-date question for the second cycle of MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingeroglou, on dealing with the problem of not carrying out tests for the acquisition of a driving licence. Also, it is not discussed because of the workload of Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, the entrant under number 813/21-04-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Athens, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, on the "intervention of the Ministry in the selection of a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses". Nor is twelfth discussed under number 794/18-4-2016 a topical question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister for Health, on the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos. So now we come to the topical questions to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Friends. We will discuss the seventh under number 835/28-4-2016 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis on the integration of the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus in the 2nd Scientific Field - Scientific Field of Positive and Technological Sciences. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what I would like to convey to you is a unanimous request from both the teachers and students of the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus. More specifically, this section during the pan-Hellenic examinations is part of the 5th Scientific Field, in the field of Economics and Informatics Sciences. So my request is that this section should be included in the pan-Hellenic examinations and in the 2nd Scientific Field, that is, the Scientific Field of Positive and Technological Sciences. This is a process which already exists for the bonds and similar university departments and the National Kapodistrian University, as well as for the University of Peloponnese. To strengthen the documentation of the request, I would like to tell you that this section has two directions in the undergraduate. One direction is Communications and Networks Systems and the second direction is Electronic Services. In fact, in the two postgraduate courses that this department also offers, the first is Digital Communications and Networks, and the second postgraduate program is Technology Management of Telecommunications Systems. With this in mind, Minister, I believe that it is sufficient for the documentation to apply to the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus, as I said before, to the sections of the Kapodistrian and the University of Peloponnese, that is to say, the candidates - obviously are talking about the next year - of the pan-Hellenic examinations to declare it in both the 5th and the 2nd Field of Applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Maniotis, thank you for the time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Colleague, the decision to integrate schools, departments and introductorys into the Scientific Fields is made by a ministerial decision, which is issued by the end of the school year of the previous year. So we're not talking about what's going to happen this year. This year, normally, the Ministerial Decision adopted on 29 May 2015 applies. What was the logic of this decision? We want to treat the previous system, which allowed candidates who competed at different courses with different degrees of difficulty to enter the same school. It is obvious that there is an experience, we will make use of it. I know that there have been serious objections from the Greek Association of Informatics to the separation of Departments of Informatics into two different Scientific Fields, which belong to different guidance groups. I know the view that you mentioned of the various university departments involved in IT. I repeat, this is a wider matter, not just in IT, it is about equality that children have to be able to enter schools. The Institute for Educational Policy, which is the competent scientific advisory body, is aware of the matter. We'll work together to reach the best solution for students. I would therefore like to assure you that, on the basis of scientific, pedagogical recommendations, we will soon come to a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u114	Minister, I was hoping to have a more positive answer and I would try to get you to my dentistry. I want to make something very clear. This section is half a department of informatics, so it rightly falls within the field of economic sciences and informatics sciences. In the other half, however, it is an entirely technological section, a section dealing mainly with networks and telecommunications, with 50% of the subject of its undergraduate and postgraduate programmes for direct implementation, a direct link with the sciences in the country's polytechnics. This has therefore become completely acceptable to two other similar universities, the Kapodistrian University and the University of Peloponnese. In fact, I had the opportunity some time ago with the President of the department to visit the Deputy Minister, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, and she agreed that this request is reasonable and obvious. In fact, I expected your assent today on a subject that, in my personal scientific opinion, is absolutely clear, clear and sufficiently substantiated. I would very much like you to accept this, which is obviously the case with the undergraduate study programme with both postgraduate programmes and to accept this request, which has been submitted with such documentation, which has indeed been fully integrated into the evaluation of this section when the relevant procedure was carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, with all due respect to tell you that decisions on issues of educational importance are not taken in the House by confrontation. These are issues which the Institute for Education Policy must first discuss and come up with, which is why, as you can see, I take into account the arguments you make, but that is not a matter for an instant answer. We will talk about it and we will shortly have a position on this issue, but we are not in a hurry for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now we will discuss the third question by Mr Athanasios Davakis with number 3999/16-3-2016, by Mr Athanasios Davakis, the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the restoration of the old Court of First Instance, Sparta, for housing the General Archives of the State of Laconia. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Subject of this question, which has come from an existing situation in Sparta, is the old Court of First Instance of the city, which is part of a wonderful trilogy, which was made at the beginning of the last century by the Bavarians, which was the Court of First Instance, which had also been used as a...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u119	The past century.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u120	1836-1937. The previous century, yes, at the beginning of the 19th century, Minister. We know the story well. I believe that this together with the city hall and the museum of 1875 were sites for the city. For about a decade now, over the decade, this emblematic building for Sparta has begun to house, since the new Judiciary has now become a member of the old Court of First Instance, which we are talking about, the General Archives of the State, which is a department which comes under the Ministry of Education, of which we are leading. The subject of my question is what is going on so far. Why hasn't he moved on? If you visit Sparta and visit this building, it is worth seeing. It is a case that we now see instantly building repair projections - from time to time they have been ragged - and at the same time they are'slagged' and anyone who, I would say, bears the title of politician in this city. From us to anyone else. In this connection, I would like to ask whether there is any prospect, some design on the part of your Ministry, in order to initiate the procedures for a building which is yours on the subject and which will house the very interesting and important and historic service, which is the General Archives of the State, otherwise so-called GIS. I'll be anxious to wait for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, this is a well-known subject. I visit Sparta often. I'm a short-patient, too. It is obvious that Sparta's long history led Otto to the decision to establish the new city. It is not exactly known what the ruins of the old city, the ancient Lakeymony, are, but what we know is that Otto, under the influence of romance and neoclassicalism of the time gave the command to a Bavarian geometer, Stoufert, to organize the city with a rhymotomy plan, which goes back to the ancient Kupodamos, the ancient hippodam system. And not only that, to fit public buildings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u123	The New Greeks have made it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u124	Yeah. Among public buildings, if you want the trilogy, it is indeed an excellent old Court of First Instance in Sparta. It's a very important building, one of the oldest public buildings in the country. Now, with regard to the restoration of the building, I have to tell you that this process has already begun in 2010, with a decision by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs departments and with the approval of the Service of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Western Greece. Then there is the request to Sparta Town for permission to restore the building that is maintained. Another issue emerged here: in the town's authorized orgasm project, it was recorded as a special use of this court building. Therefore, there needs to be an amendment to use, in order, as you have rightly said, to take advantage of the General Archives of the State. In order not to bore you on the bureaucratic route, I tell you that in October 2015 the Sparta Plan forwarded the request file to the Peloponnese Towns, in order to proceed with the adoption of the decision to amend the Sparta Radiation Plan. We are therefore close to the decision by the decentralised administration of the Peloponnese in order to issue the building permit from Sparta Town. Our service will then proceed to the tendering and implementation of the project. I believe that we are close to the moment when the old Sparta Court of First Instance will again be an ornament for the city. And you can be certain that any action that is needed from the Ministry is going to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, as you say, I would say that they sound hopeful and prosperous. My last speech is simply in the direction of pushing a little - it concerns you, it is your building now - the decentralised regional director of Patras and you say to him: 'Stop with the approval of this nomadic project'. Indeed, the procedures are demonstrable. The delay does not really lie with the Ministry of Education. You're here to answer. It belongs to the Ministry of Interior. I would like to believe that at a hard pace you will move forward so that what you have said will become a reality. We have made many parliamentary interventions. That's where they all get there. Anyway, let it be the last. It doesn't belong to anyone. It belongs to the history of the city, it belongs to the people and also to researchers who want to see the General Archives of the State, the Sparta Annex, which have been divided into three areas, to be integrated, so that for both the researcher and the researcher, it is a philosopher, in any case, to be able to revive them. I want to believe that immediately, from what I can see, and with the sense of the proximity that it distinguishes us, because of the neighbourhood that we have from your origin, you will be interested as if it were yours. This is a very important building, as you said, of modern Greece, which the Bavarians had for the worship of ancient Spartans, ancient Sparta and ancient majesty, looked with great interest. Let us New Greeks also look at this story, which is not that much of a government. It's all your fault. So let's look at her as much as we should have had to do. Let it finally become your reality over time and let it begin. My time is not over, and that is why I am taking the opportunity to mention that one issue of funding is now important. I see that Mrs Theanoo Fotio with a very expressive look is consensual.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u127	I'm an architect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u128	That's right. Funding is, I believe, guaranteed. That's all, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, I would like to speak very briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u130	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Comrade, I told you we'd do whatever it takes. And I think we will soon be able to see the scaffolding to restore this building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u132	Colleagues, the seventh question under number 862/13-5-2016, first question by MP IV of the Athens Union of Centres, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the undue delay in the recognition of professional qualifications of engineers TEI due to the omission of the regulatory presidential decrees, will not be discussed as a result of the failure of the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Ithanasias Anagnastopoulou, due to a scheduled date with the German Ambassador. Also, it is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Ministers abroad, firstly, Mr. Nikolaos Kotzias, the third with number 857/11-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotaou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "the unsuccessful action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", as well as the second question with number 864/135-2016 on the second cycle of the MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Lagos, on the "provocations of Turkish-speaking, falsified and Consul in Xanthi". Also, it is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant ministers abroad, such as Mr Musala in Brussels, the tenth under number 838/6-2016 topical question for the second cycle of the MP in Athens, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, on the living conditions of refugees - migrants in Greek and, finally, the tenth question with number 545/15-2-2016 topical question for the second cycle of the MP from the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKA. Now, the Minister, Mrs Theano Fotio, is here to answer the questions to her. This is the 3297/232-18-2-2016 question and application for the filing of documents by the MP for the Democratic Assent PASOK. - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the pilot programme 'guaranteed social income' (SEK) and the question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKEN KEGEROVELKE Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the minimum guaranteed income referred to in the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in terms of their speaking time, by applying the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Consequently, today's sitting is closed with these two questions. We give the floor to Mr. Koutsouko for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is well known that our political area, the PASOK, and in particular my adjoining member, Mr Kegeroglu, was one of the first to the pilot project for the minimum guaranteed income. We have criticised you, as you are well aware, because, instead of implementing the programme across Greece and expanding it, you have taken the evaluation and said that you will continue to pilot the programme in thirty municipalities, without it yet moving forward. Mr. Kegeroglu will be referring to this. We have a mood, because we have a historical relationship with social policy, to contribute. We have asked you a specific question and a request for documents to which, unfortunately, you have not answered us. And what were we asking for, Minister? We were asking you to tell us very specific things: if you will make the evaluation report public, if you are prepared to extend it to the remaining thirty municipalities and if you have made a new supplementary contract with the World Bank. I am referring to what - I repeat - we have come positively to contribute. I am not talking about what we have been criticising from time to time, because you have taken a programme that you had in your hands as a tool and had to go ahead with and take us to philosophical benefits. That is our question, if you are able today to answer these questions. If you do not respond to us, it is clear that in my dentistry I will say the issues that we have criticised you and we will insist until this policy becomes flesh and bone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u134	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, as Mr Koutsoukos said, we had launched and launched the pilot run. The first question and application for the submission of documents was started there, which was not completed. Mostly the second and third pillars were not completed. In other words, while you have completed the payment of the financial aid planned, with a slight delay, there has been no activation of the second and third pillars. The second pillar concerns the provision of services and goods to beneficiaries of guaranteed income and the third pillar concerns the reintegration process. In fact, we pointed out to the question that there were twenty additional million million from the EMCDDA that were committed for this purpose. In any case, the pilot run of thirteen has been completed. You announced that the programme would start on April 1st. It didn't start on April 1st. The second question is therefore before us. Today we want to know how many and what municipalities it will be. Why not apply to everyone? Is this just a financial issue, or are there other reasons? When will you start applying to the municipalities that you choose, at thirty, seventy, 100, or whatever municipalities you choose, anyway? That is the spirit of our question. Apart from that, I would like to raise the following point. The plenary is required to discuss a proposal for a law every month. We are not discussing in plenary the proposal for a law that we have tabled on guaranteed social income and other provisions relating to social protection, because, as we are told by the services, the relevant ministry has not yet answered you, in other words, about a proposal for a law which I think will only have a positive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much for the statement you both make that you want to contribute - and I know - to social policy matters, and particularly to the issue of minimum guaranteed income. I have answered many times, Mr Kutsuko, on these issues. You are right that I did not have time to give you all the information you requested in the application for documents. But I have them here today. I've brought them to cds. It is the report of the World Bank, the evaluation of the EMCDDA, just as we have commissioned and done both to the EMCDDA and to the World Bank. As you know, World Bank had only five of the thirteen municipalities to assess. So, in the end, you'll get what you asked for. I am sorry, but I too, Mr Kutsuko, have been amazed at the way parliamentary control is carried out regarding the Ministry. From coming a document, going to the services to answer, coming back, etc., he spends a hell of a lot of time. I'll be taken personally from here and then. We've already made a great effort. Last week, we finished all the loose ends that our ministry had, forty questions, so that what happened, at least, would not happen again. We have no intention of responding as you can imagine. I'm still on the record, so I don't have to eat my time. The minimum guaranteed income was a proposal - if you previously remember - of the Coalition in 2007. Mr. Drasakis submitted it. So we have just as much sensitivity in this whole story. What happened from 2007 or 2009 to today? The rapid poverty of large parts of the population has terribly increased the number of potential beneficiaries. How are the beneficiaries defined? The beneficiaries, and so how great this tank can be, are defined by what you say and how you set the criteria for extreme poverty. I followed the criteria set by the previous government for extreme poverty on financial terms to the minimum guaranteed income - minimum social income I think you said so at the time - which all three of us here in the Chamber have to conclude that, they really cannot afford to live a four-member family with 400 euros a month, and much more when the last country before us, which is Cyprus, has this plaque for the four people at 900 euros a month. Therefore, you understand that, if we were to reach a justified level, if, as the pilot showed, national implementation was to take place with the 400 euros - which unfortunately will happen, I mean that cap - we expect seven hundred thousand people to register and have rights to what you say'social minimum income' or what we call'social solidarity income'. That means, as you know very well, the obligation that was passed by the July Act by the House. Because, as you know - Mr Koutsouko, I am referring to you - the House voted in the summer with Mr Koutsouko. 4336, which the New Democracy had voted on if I remember correctly, that there will be a gradual implementation and then the overall implementation will take place from 1-1-17. So there's a law. That is why I would reject any proposal that would say that universal application - the one you brought, that is - must now be done throughout Greece. And why should it not be done now throughout Greece, and what do we want with what we have said and committed ourselves to doing, the first phase of the one to be done throughout Greece from 1-17, as the law says, in April in thirty municipalities? You will tell me, Mr Koutsukouko - and rightly so - 'Mrs. April has gone away and therefore, as you say to me in the question, 'they are getting away with lies'. Unfortunately, Mr. Kutsuko, I have submitted... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] May I stop, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u138	Yeah, 'cause you're gonna have more time after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u139	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and four educational sessions from the 1st Elementary School of Zakynthos Karabineio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Well, children, this is the last question they ask MPs to Minister, it is the parliamentary control procedure, and that is why there is no presence of many Members, except that we have a very serious bill that is being discussed in the committee of Parliament with the presence of many Members. So whatever you've got to do, you're gonna listen. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u141	Madam President, I too, in the committee where half of my colleagues are, I have come down to be consistent with parliamentary scrutiny, and I have two comments, Minister, in your reply. It's good that you even give us the cd today, but I've been late reading the cds of these seven and a half thousand pages, and I still haven't done it. Well, we'll study it to see what you're answering. I think we did not need to get to this process to send it to us. From there on, your explanation of the problems of parliamentary control is acceptable. After all, we have lived here in this House because too many of your colleagues find a lot of excuses for not coming. My second comment, Minister, is as follows: The draft law we tabled for the complete implementation of the guaranteed social income has a report from the General Accounting Office of the State and, therefore, if you had speeded up his discussion, you had agreed, we would have had it here. I think it would be a good debate, because we would see how this comprehensive proposal with the cost of the General Accounting may contribute to the obligation that our country has undertaken, following the agreement you referred to and included in the memorandum, and for which you were programmed by Genarris, who became government and you who were at the Ministry, had not made any mention. You've brought arrangements here to give us some help. We voted on them, but we told you that the minimum social income, as we anticipated, provided for access to a number of services and on the other hand had the possibility of reintegrating the unemployed. In other words, it was not just an aid in euro - drachma, as we would call it old - it also had an integrated policy to support these families with access to social tariffs, to the services of the municipalities. At the same time, the big issue is reintegration into the labour market, because none of us want to make these people, who are within the limits of poverty, as a benefit to the lowest possible level, so that they are not integrated into a society that works, produces and creates them. I think that's what we need to talk about. So let me be critical to you, because you could take advantage of both our work and our proposals, so that we could have taken a step further. We, as Mr Kegeroglu will then say, have criticised you because, while you said that the new pilot is going to launch April, you have not started. But our ambition is not the new pilot. Our ambition is to evaluate, on the basis of the documents we have requested you - which you said you have put on the cd - how the previous one went and to contribute to an integrated policy. We believe that the democratic inclusion in these issues of the poverty of our society should be addressed on the one hand by development processes and on the other hand by social policies, which enable the part of society that is marginalised to be active in the process of production, the social life of the country. Otherwise, we'll take them to the margin. And a society, which a large part of it leads to the margin, has no prospect of growth in the future. That is our goal, and that is where all our criticisms are focused. As a result, what we have written in our question is critical. We will see your answers and, Madam President, we will come back, provided that you do not prevent us from bringing the draft law here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. In order to be able to come to an agreement and to cooperate in order to have fruit that will benefit the country and society, we should all be telling the whole truth. The first proposal for a law tabled for the minimum guaranteed income in the Greek Parliament was in 1996. Of course, in 2007, as you mentioned quite rightly - and that was the reason that began on these days - the needs were clearly differentiated, increased and related to not the high standard of living we were talking about before the crisis, but to a decent level of living. This differentiation exists, and that is why we should speed up our work. So we are currently exercising parliamentary control in order to enable the government to act and control itself towards the quickest and correctest possible implementation of an institution that we believe is the integrated proposal, so that a solution can be found. The foundation of the minimum guaranteed income, which is currently considering the economic situation of a person or a family, and which, in addition to financial support, gives him the opportunity and access to goods and services, but above all to work reintegration - clearly cannot be done from one day to the next, but within a timeframe from joining the programme - is the answer to many objections about what the institution is, whether there is a trap of poverty, whether it is a simple allowance and all that. That is why I think you should move in that direction. But I'm coming to see why you were late. I will submit to the House your position on the programme statements, even though there is one. So I refer to your programme statements. It's the Minutes of the House, it's nothing special. You know very well that it wasn't yours the guaranteed income.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u144	Which one of the programming statements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u145	The programme statements of the January elections held on 9 February. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I think that at the time we could have used time and paid fruit as a parliament. Of course, there has been the legislative initiative to provide the feeding card, etc., which has taken place at the same time. The deal's here. It was put on the side of the partners or of you - I do not know, I did not share in the negotiation, you participated - and in the October programming statements you referred to and adopted the concept. Because I have too many of your statements, in addition to the programme statements, which you are legitimate to say: 'Our philosophy is not that'. You had that position. So we come today to see that you agree with this institution and you choose to do a pilot again. Let us say that this is something that is being done for economic reasons. If only for economic reasons, I think that resources could be found to be made, not in thirty - because you didn't tell us how much is going to be done, but from the publications - but in a hundred municipalities, if not throughout the country. There's our proposal for a law to discuss it. Let us see whether or not we are enough of what has been done, if the criticism and problems in the pilot were exploited. We in the proposal for a law include what you have put into the humanitarian crisis programme, the rental subsidy, as a given case, in the event that it is not resident. Because it was something that emerged, it was a positive thought, and we incorporate it. So we are coming today to ask you to act immediately. No legislative initiative has been tabled so far. I don't know. If you're ready, tell us. You didn't tell us at the front. Because we need a legislative initiative. Bring the legislative initiative to discuss and activate this institution. Why is there a delay? Is this a matter of negotiation? If it's a matter of negotiation, is the bill today we're talking about? I haven't read it all. Is there anything like that in there? And another thing because I read a statement of yours somewhere, that we don't pay for the co-operation now, while we paid for World Bank before. I am well aware that a letter has been sent from the Ministry of Labour to the European Commission. Because the system in the new Community framework is to pay the Commission directly to international organizations working with the Greek Government. If you don't know, I'm telling you. The letter has gone to the European Commission and is now working with the World Bank. They are therefore removed from the NSRP. That's not the point. But I read somewhere that you stressed that it is now free. Goodness is not the World Bank, the OECD and the others who have come here. All of them normally get what they are entitled to or what they cost or what they are agreed to. But charities don't. I think it is a number of issues which should be attributed exactly as they are. So when will the new program begin?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u146	Madam Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u147	No, Madam President. Previously, they consumed nine minutes. For exchange rate reasons, I ask for the same time. I'll be a little sad, Mr. Kegeroglu. Why didn't I apply, did I not continue the extended implementation of this pilot that you did? Because, as I have repeatedly answered the current questions, the evaluation is not good. You did this while it was your Memorandum obligation. You see, I'm not hiding behind my finger. It is a Memorandum of Understanding - with the law I have mentioned - at the moment. Also yours was a memorandum obligation in 2012. And since 2012 you have implemented it in 2014. When? In November 2014, a few days before the elections and while you were watching the elections coming. And instead of being in two parts of Greece, as planned, you did it in thirteen regions. That's why you made huge mistakes. The municipalities weren't ready. Five hundred mistakes. They're talking about it in the reports. Mr. Koutsoukos will now read it all and let you know. The platform's wrong. He's been five hundred times. People couldn't and they paid accountants to do it. The municipalities were not ready because they had neither personal nor preparation. You've prepared the municipalities for two days, all of them. So there has been a mistaken application of this whole story. I understand why you were delaying the implementation of this. Because - as you have just accepted - the minimum guaranteed income can, if wrong, become a poverty trap. We've seen it when the subsidized piece is so compressed. And it requires large services throughout the country that are developed in health, both in education, both in the direct help of these people and in the rent-support policy or in the search for social housing. You know all this. I don't blame you for ignorance. I blame you for not saying this directly to the world. The fact that we are delaying the beginning - the phase one, that is, the integrated one - of the pilot, unfortunately does not depend on us. Because, as you know well, when a check enters the memorandum - as it has entered you - the partners must agree. I submitted from February a comprehensive plan and the program and the NSA and the law. And I did not have until first, until fifteen or twenty days, a re-activation of these discussions, which have actually come to an end. And you will have the application of phase one in the next few days, Mr. Koutsuko. It'll be complete, Mr. Kegeroglu. The 20 million you have not mentioned today or mentioned the re-enlargement of work. The most serious thing is to give employment opportunities. In any case, these people should be activated in various manifestations, which will be activated, to be informed of possible programmes, so that they can get into possible programmes. All twenty million - which was the previous programme - certainly exist. They have not been lost on the road and will be exploited in phase one. But why didn't I use them? But why, Mr Kegeroglu, I have been planning these infamous twenty million since April and then so that I can apply them. I'm ready to do the design. Perhaps you do not remember that you started this programme in November, which ended early April, and I took over in February. No plan was handed over, no plan for how I would use these twenty million. Because, as you also know, the OAED must work together for this, the services must cooperate on this. So I didn't get anything back at all. And come to the ministry and search the files, tell me if I got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u148	The I.C.E.D....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u149	Now listen to me, 'cause I know the U.S.M. And you'll see what the N.C.E.D. says. You'll read them with Mr. Kutsuko. They don't honor what the HR says. He says that it was made certain, that it was done without planning, that he has many problems with what you did. I understand why you did it. However, do not make this a matter for the Greek people, who have suffered everything that has happened to them. And I come back to you, Mr. Kutsuko. The humanitarian crisis programme is a targeted programme, which gives in kind, because there is not much money to be given to people. We don't have one. And you didn't. And they don't exist. That's why you've downloaded so much the subsidised part, which is no longer a problem. So when you don't have, and you're a poor man, and they give you 400 euros to live in the four-member family, you have to be Harvard's graduate at the Financial Department to make it. But if they've paid you the electricity, like we did, if they give you a rental subsidy, if you don't have a home, like we did, and if they give you a feeding card, so that, at least, you can take your food -70 to 220 euros, not much, but everyone depending on how many children have - as we do, that can be a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u150	We agree. It was the second pillar.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u151	The other thing, however, was not the case and that is why you had a great deal of trouble. And here we are trying in every way, with thousands of plans, with too many people behind us, with whom we have been working together for so many months, to avoid the snipers on which you have fallen. That's objective. I'm not looking at you. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u152	That's the pilot concept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u153	This is no time for dialogue. Questions are metaphors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u154	But come on, let's tell the Greek people a truth. You set up the Project Management Team, i.e. the project management team, which would coordinate the project. It met with such a delay, however, which began almost a month after the commencement of submission of applications. Do you understand the cursory? Moreover, the guidelines to the municipalities, which were included in the operating manual, were given a great deal of delay and the programme had been launched.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u155	The instructions are given afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Kegeroglu, I've never talked to this. But if you want to challenge me today, I can read you everything to stay in the Minutes. You did not carry out a trial run in the programme, neither in the pilot municipalities nor anywhere. If people don't have the platform in front, how will they do it? That's why the platform fell a hundred times. And it fell for few people, for thirteen municipalities. We did the humanitarian crisis programme, there were four hundred thousands of families inside, and the platform did not fall, because we had made a test effort ahead of us. You guys didn't put extra staff. You've had a great deal of trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u157	Please, Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u158	When will it finally begin, Minister? Which municipalities, how many and when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Kegeroglu, we don't have a dialogue. We're done. How much are we going to talk about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u160	The evaluation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u161	So you're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u162	No, I don't answer the number, because you know what happens every time you announce the municipalities and you're not prepared for this whole story. I, Mr. Kegeroglu, don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u163	Okay, it's not determined.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u164	No, I've told you before and I've told you again: the thirty municipalities will be on the basis of the four criteria and sit down and check them out. First, they will be dependent on the population. Because, as you know, poor people go with the population. Not all Attica, who has 40% of the population, can have a municipality like you did. We will have a ratio of 30% in all of them. Secondly, central Macedonia will have the percentage that it deserves. Thirdly, all other regions will be at their rates. From there, they are depending on each municipality. In other words, we have a double methodology, which says the number first with the population and so forth. Afterwards, among the large number of municipalities, those with the highest unemployment rates, those with the highest rates we have found in the humanitarian crisis, those with the highest rates we have found in the TEVA. So it's going to be a remarkable choice. It won't happen, Mr. Kegeroglu, the way you did it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u165	But when are you going to do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u166	I told you, over the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u167	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u168	I'm done, Madam President. So you're expecting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, because I too have heard them as President two - three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u170	So wait, Mr. Koutsouko, to be voted on by the House. I testify to the cd I told you in the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u172	Can we get a copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u173	You'll get one. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-19-S1-commons.u174	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 14.10 p.m.
