ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Secretary, Mrs Theophftatou Aphrodite, informs us by letter that during the IZ' Parliamentary Period, 2nd Session, the Members of Parliament are appointed as Parliamentary Representatives for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Mantas Christos, Mr Xydakis Nikolaos and Mr Vakis Fotinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2017’. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, within five consecutive sessions. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the general rapporteurs and a single list of speakers will be drawn up. The sequence of speakers will be defined in the context of the speakers' circles. I propose that, following the speeches by the general and special rapporteurs, there should be a circle of speakers with speakers from each party. In other words, as a priority, we will have nine alternate MPs, one or one of the eight parties and an independent MP. Then, in order to ensure that Parliamentary seats are represented by analogy, I propose that a single list of speakers should be drawn up, including all Members registered with the electronic system. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the The circles of speakers will be as follows: Each circle of speakers will be composed of fourteen MPs, which will be altered. We expect it to be at least fifteen such cycles, perhaps seventeen or eighteen. In particular, each cycle will consist of twelve Members of the first five parliamentary groups, six of the SYRIZA, three of the New Democracy, one of the Golden Dawn, one of the Democratic Compensation, one of the JRC and successively every two cycles will enter a Member from the Potami and one MEP from the Central Association. In each cycle an independent MEP will enter until the sixth cycle. The same is true of the Independent Greeks. Any changes in the order of subscribed speakers should, in exceptional cases, be made with the approval of the Bureau and with the document of the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group, addressed to the Bureau, and subject to the need for mutual change by the end of the second sitting. We will make every effort this year, as we have done in recent years, to speak as many colleagues as possible. This will be possible if we all limit ourselves to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings start at the very time that has been set on the agenda. That is why I stress, ladies and gentlemen, that it is essential that time should be strictly respected and that the meetings should be started at the time that has been planned. The morning meetings will begin at 10 a.m. The last day's debate time on Saturday will depend on the remaining speakers and the remaining speakers and will be known on Friday, December 9th, 2016. On the night of the last day of the debate, that is on Saturday, 10 December, as defined in the Rules of Procedure, the debate will be closed at exactly 12 o'clock and the vote will begin. This does not mean that the vote will be taken earlier - if the speakers, the ministers, the Heads of the Parties, are finished - that is, before twelve. I propose that the speaking time of the general rapporteurs should be twenty-five minutes, of the special rapporteurs for 15 minutes, of Prime Minister 30, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and of the Chairman of the Staff Representatives of thirty-fifths, of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, of the Democratic Confederal of the PASOK - DIMAR, of the JRC, of the River, of the Independent Greeks and of the Central Union of twenty-fifths, of the responsible Minister of Finance, of the Deputy Minister of Finance, of the 15th, of the Minister of Finance, of the other Ministries of the Twelve, of the Deputy Ministers of the other Ministries, possibly Secretary of State of the other Ministries seven, in proportion to the application of Articles 97 and 123 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to speak for twelve minutes, but in accordance with Rule 167(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, they shall have the right to speak for six minutes. Also, the speaking time for all speakers on the list will be seven minutes. There will be no speeches and tripartite speeches, so that the list can be exhausted, which will probably have many colleagues and colleagues. You realised that there has been quite a good preparation. This draft has been passed by the Conference of Presidents, organized. We have seen that it is possible to absorb all those who say that they will speak and that is why the meetings will be in the morning - noon and no interruption at noon and no time until night at 12 or 12 o'clock. In order to avoid any concerns to a number of colleagues, who have not yet understood it, they can see, through the electronic system, a number, which will have nothing to do with the number which they will then have in order to talk about. All that is certain and guaranteed is if you are in a number and another colleague is in a number below - in a larger number - this second colleague will certainly speak more than you. This is guaranteed. Otherwise, you could be in number 23 and talk to number 164, because of the circles that will be placed. I hope you know this and we've all realised it so that there are no reactions. I propose that today's sitting should end at about 12 o'clock. The general rapporteurs and a lot of the experts will be taken up. On substance, in Members' circles, we will enter tomorrow, after the first two hours, roughly if you see the hours. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u3	So the House unanimously agreed. The general rapporteur of SYRIZA is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u5	Do you have any objections, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u6	One question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u7	Please, be quiet. One question Mr. Loverdos wants to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, we agree in order. It is a decision of the Conference of Presidents. I told you last year - and sometimes it is kept, sometimes it is not observed - that we have the order of speech of the ministers first and, if possible, with your own intervention where there is a Minister and a Deputy Minister, the State Secretary may have something useful to say, but often he overturns the flow of the debate. The large-scale involvement of the government creates parliamentary problems. You need to see this and, in any case, we want to see it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u9	We've got it all, Mr. Loverdo. We'll give it to you too. Okay, they're in time and they're set every day who's gonna talk. There'll be a lot of government, not all of them, of course. It's a fraction of the whole number. That's why I said, possibly, about State Secretarys. We're talking about Ministers and Deputy Ministers. There has been a situation on the part of the government for all three days, so that you too are aware of the positions of the speakers and then put on the substance. We always asked for that. You're right. Well, the SYRIZA Special Rapporteur, Christos Beyalas, is called at Step. You're welcome, Mr. Beala.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday to your nominal holiday. Happy birthday to celebrities and celebrities. Colleagues. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of the state budget for the financial year 2017. It is the second budget submitted by our government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The budget that we are debating today is the top issue, both from a budgetary point of view and from an ideological standpoint. The budget is not just a matter of numbers, it gives the mark and orientation of the country's governance. Our government's first budget, for the financial year 2016, broke the vicious cycle of recession and laid the foundations for fiscal stability. The 2017 budget now consolidates budgetary equilibrium and stability. It restores confidence in the markets and gives the message that our country's budgets are no longer surpluses or deficits. The 2017 budget is realistic, developmental and surplus. This trust is now proven by the accounting data from the implementation of the 2015 budget, as well as the 2016 budget, where the targets have been significantly exceeded, contrary to all the unpleasant and disastrous forecasts made by the Opposition, throughout the year. The 2017 budget is a recovery budget, continuing the same path as that of 2016, which was a landmark year for the Greek economy, as it marked a return to growth. The 2016 budget closes with a primary surplus of 0.5% and an excess of EUR 1 billion. For two consecutive quarters the economy has experienced positive GDP growth. In the third quarter of 2016, in relation to the second quarter of 2016, we had an economic growth of 0.8%. Two quarters at a positive rate officially mark the end of the recession. Our economy last had such growth rates in the second quarter of 2008 at a time of economic crisis. The aim of our Government with this budget is to restore confidence in the Greek economy. The measures which we will take to support are the gradual relaxation of capital controls, the settlement of non-performing loans and the reduction of unemployment. An important role for the progress towards the recovery of 2017 is the Eurogroup's decision yesterday to implement immediately the short-term measures to regulate the Greek debt. This decision is an important success and another decisive step towards the exit of the Greek economy from the crisis. In particular, a debt reduction of 22% of GDP is ensured, i.e. at least EUR 45 billion, while interest rates are stabilised at a favourable rate of 1.5%, especially in a period of uncertainty, but also forecasts for an increase in interest rates in the coming period. After all, the government took a stand at the beginning, maintaining its positions in the work, but also in the face of the irrational requirements for maintaining primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 for another ten years. It did not, however, retreat to the extreme demands of the International Monetary Fund for additional measures after the end of the programme. All political forces must today recognise the positive reduction step in debt, but above all take a stand on the two most crucial issues of negotiation: the need to restore European normality in labour relations, and to reject all thoughts for additional measures after the end of the programme. Yesterday's decision is important because the debt regulation is linked to the restoration of investment confidence, long-term creditworthiness and credibility of the economy. Already, the country is recovering. This is reflected in the increase in private consumption. Also, exports have increased and we have a surplus in the current account balance. For five months in a row, private-sector deposits to banks have increased. This shows that our economy has stabilised. The interest rates of the ten-year bonds today are at 6.4%, the same as in spring 2014. But there is a difference: In the spring of 2014 interest rates went down, and today interest rates, following developments with Brexit, as well as elections in the United States, go up, apart from the interest rate in Greece. Greek interest rates are falling slowly and firmly because markets have discounted the entry into the quantitative relaxation programme and the successful completion of the evaluation. Our aim is, once the second assessment has been completed and the introduction to the quantitative relaxation programme, that interest rates fall further, that we go out on the markets permanently and firmly with low interest rates, which will give us cheaper money than the International Monetary Fund. So we put the foundations to get out of surveillance program as soon as possible. We want a Greece with strong economy and international credibility, a Greece that will not be constantly borrowed to meet its needs. You, gentlemen of counterpopulation, borrowed abundantly and sent false evidence, undermining the country's future. The 2017 budget is the first budget setting out the framework for a different economic policy. The economy will have a growth rate of 2.7% in real economic growth and 3.3% in nominal terms. The objectives of the 2017 budget are: Maintaining the fiscal equilibrium in order to complete the recovery of credibility in the country and enabling the exit from the programme, sharing the burden of adjustment in a socially fair manner and a socially fair distribution of the benefit of the already under way recovery, development and reduction of unemployment. The programme provides for a primary surplus of 1.75%. This is significantly lower than what you have seen in the previous programme, so it opens up a financial space for the gradual recovery of the economy. Emphasis is placed on strengthening social objectives for the gradual restoration of social imbalances. We are overhauling the primary surplus target, which will form 2% of GDP, which is clearly lower than that agreed by the previous government, to 4.5% of the surplus. This difference is estimated at 5.4 billion less than the financial adjustment measures. With overcompensation of 2017 targets, there is no case for the activation of a financial cut. This budget also has a social significance. Firstly, it institutionalises and finances the social income of solidarity throughout the country with EUR 760 million for the slaps of fifty thousand households. Secondly, it gives additional support to the social budget for health, education and welfare with EUR 300 million. Thirdly, it protects the first home for vulnerable households with 100 million euros. In 2017, the social budget reaches 1.16 billion euros. In 2016 the social budget was 272 million, while in 2015 we found in other codes, in a budget that you had done, 100 million and you had not budgeted any spending on protecting the weaker. The 2017 budget has the largest redistribution that has taken place within one year in Greece in recent years. With your own governance, the country has experienced the biggest recession since the 20th century, with the exception of periods of war. We are aiming at stopping the vicious cycle of recession and the country finally entering a developmental path. Our budget will have a growth rate of 2.7%. This is real and realistic, because an economy with such a great productive gap, which has existed in recent years, is of course at the moment, with the stability we give it, to have increased growth rates. This is also apparent from the third quarter of 2016. The growth was 1.8% and has exceeded every expectation of the Ministry of Finance, as well as of all the players who see the Greek economy and examine it thoroughly. The new ESDP, the newly adopted development law and the rural development programme will make a significant contribution to the development path. Private consumption will increase by 1.8% due to growth, employment growth and the benefit of the 760 billion of social income. This money, which will be given to the weaker, goes directly to the private economy and has a large multiplier budgetary effect. The Gross Fixed Capital formation will increase by 9.1%, supported by the increase in credit growth in the economy, the development of European investment resources and the impact of the low base level of 2016. With the growth of the economy, we will have a decline in unemployment. Here I would remind you that unemployment in 2014 was 26.5%, in 2015 it was 24.9%, in 2016 the year will close with 23.5% and the forecast for 2017 is unemployment to fall to 22.4%. It is also important to stress that the tax burden is undoubtedly great. We are, however, obliged to achieve the budgetary objectives, for which we are committed, in order to restore credibility and get out of the programme. We are well aware that the great tax burden is difficult for everyone and in order to reverse high taxation, we have taken the following measures: the repayment of the outstanding debts of 2% of Gross Domestic Product in 2016 and 2% of GDP in June 2017, the strengthening of the social budget and the expansion of the tax base by means of electronic transactions. These are bills, which will come within the next period, to broaden the tax base, because without it the tax rates cannot be reduced. The public investment programme for 2017 is expected to reach EUR 6,750,000, at the same level as in 2016. This expenditure represents 3.7% of the country's forecast GDP. They are allocated to EUR 575 000 000 for projects co-financed by the European Union and EUR 1 billion for projects to be financed exclusively from national resources. As regards the part of the public investment programme, financed exclusively from national resources, the total amount for 2017, compared with 2016, is increased by EUR 250 million. The public investment programme, as a basic instrument for development policy, accompanies budgetary effort through development actions, contributes to strengthening the Greek economy and, at the same time, to supporting social cohesion. The net revenue of the regular budget on a cash basis is projected to be EUR 50,374,000,000, increased by EUR 2,271,000, compared with 2016. Direct taxes are expected to be at EUR 20,415,000, reduced by EUR 296,000, compared with 2016. The indirect taxes are set at EUR 26,443,000, an increase of EUR 1,335 000, compared with 2016. I would like to stress something here in relation to what our colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left are saying, that we are giving a great deal of overtaxation. I do not think that so much eminent economists, who are on this side of the line, do not understand how much taxes the growth and growth of the economy will give us by 2.7% - which gives us a growth of the Gross Domestic Product at about 6 billion - in the ordinary budget, but isolates indirect taxes with a purely numerical logic. The total expenditure of the regular budget is estimated to be EUR 49,536,000, reduced by EUR 1,481,000, compared to the estimate for 2016, mainly due to the reduction of the costs of guarantee payments on a gross basis, to bodies within the general government, the planned reduction of expenditure on armament programmes, as well as the lack of provision of expenditure on debt commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues from the Officerial Reconciliation are constantly building new accounts, but they are based on false figures and wrong predictions. The last record is that what we do with the 2017 budget is to come back to the same situation as 2014, that after two years in the end, we have reached the same point. But let's look at the numbers carefully, because they sometimes tell the truth: In 2014, when you were government, you predicted in the budget a primary surplus of 1.6%. But you failed to catch the targets. And the 2014 report records a government budget deficit of EUR 633,62 million, which is 0.38% of GDP. You also predicted an increase of 0.6%. Today we know that this figure was 0.35%. However, there is a difference: your predictions were not the reality. Today, however, in 2017, in the respective figures, we anticipate an increase, an increase of 2.7% and a primary surplus of 2%. If 2.7% is the same as the 0.35% that you achieved and 2% of the primary surplus as the 0.38% deficit, this is your arithmetic, the numerical, the New Democracy. You tell us that the interest rates currently at 6.4% are the same as in spring 2014. It was the time you wanted to do the success story. However, in August, October and December 2014 interest rates ranged to 7.3%, 8.1%, to close to 8.5%. We now have at 6.5% the 10-year bond interest rates with a further decline. If these are the same numbers, then I guess your arithmetic has a subject. Ladies and gentlemen, let us say one more thing: the budgets that this government carried out, 2015 and 2016, are marked by one element, that they are reliable. Everything we've budgeted has been fully covered. And not only that, but we have now had positive results. As far as your budgets are concerned, I will mention a few figures: in 2012 you predicted a 1.1% growth, while the year ended with a 6.6% recession. In 2013, you predicted a 2.1% growth, and we finally had a 3.3% recession. As far as the best year for you, in 2014, I mentioned the numbers previously. Gentlemen, these are unreliable budgets and unreliable policy. For you, who 2014 was the best year, it has failed miserably. My dear colleagues, your facts are not a record of success, but a story of failure. In the 2015 budget - which was your budget, but we executed it - we managed and were exceeded in the targets, as in the 2016 budget. The budget for 2017 will also have the same overrun. That is, for the Greek people to know who the unreliable one is and who the trustworthy one is. Another account of you is that, with our own government, private deposits to Greek banks have fallen. Let's go a little bit to the numbers, which are from the same table as the rapporteur for Officerial Response: September 2009: Private statements, 246 billion. February 2015, 152 billion. The elections were held on 20 January, colleagues. That's to put things in place. October 2016, 135 billion. Look at your differences. Look for the paintings you read yourself. The loss of the two-year government SYRIZA is 17 billion euros, with private deposits, but in the last five months, growing steadily. In your period, of counter-population, and of previous coexistence, we have EUR 94 billion loss of private deposits. So leave those accounts. They're not interested in you. With your policy, the deposits from the Greek banks were depleted, and that is why there was a need for new refinancing. Ladies and gentlemen, the distortion of reality and the narratives, which you devise, outweigh any imagination. One story comes after another. When one goes down, the next one comes in. You have told us that we have damaged the country by EUR 86 billion. Let's see the reality. Since when, ladies and gentlemen, the 54 billion used to feed the old debt is a new debt? You obviously do not know that the loan is increasing by 54 billion, but that the loan is falling by 54 billion. Aren't we going to the same lazy thing? Ladies and gentlemen, that's the way it is. Your arithmetic only has the addition. And the addition is the addition of your mistakes and not the removal of the sufferings of our people, which is our policy. Of the remaining 32 billion, 25 billion are intended for bank recapitalisation. Eventually, only 5 billion were used. The rest wasn't taken as a loan. What kind of increase in lending is this when you don't get a loan? The remaining EUR 7 billion was used to repay outstanding debts. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the reality proves the poverty of your arguments. The 2017 budget is a recovery budget, after many years of continuous recession. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the New Democracy is afraid of. She fears the success of the programme, the government's success, the country's exit from the committee, so she has invested in riskology and an effort to tell the citizens that her own governance was a perfect governance. It was the success store, which accounts for the fact that it was suspended because we went to elections. Now, of course, since when does opposition lead to elections to the government, let them explain it to us. And since he can lead her, lead us and you if you can, and if you want, go to elections. We know, however, that the government has announced the elections. The elections, however, under the Constitution and the election for the President of the Republic had to be held in March. The programme and the fifth evaluation should, ladies and gentlemen, be closed on 31 December 2014. Why did you ask for an extension to go on February 12th? And since it was such a successful year, why didn't you close the evaluation on December 31, 2014, achieve the goals, both until March, in the elections, to demonstrate these positive results to the people, to applaud you with his vote? You have, however, received an extension until 12 February, and you have announced the elections to January, to go, to escape, to set up the left-hand side plan. But this left-hand plan didn't come to you. There was a right-wing project. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and not what you are trying to tell us with the success story, a success story with empty funds. It is known that the Flevaris who went to pay the Treasury, had a deficit of EUR 500 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we had an economy with a great productive gap, and you wanted to get out of the market and get out of the recession. But what we had was 0.35 rate of growth. You can't go out on the market with 0.35%. Therefore, in the real economy, the 2014 data do not refer to the success story. On the contrary, they show a failed financial management, especially if we take into account the failure to achieve the objectives of the primary surplus. Your programme, according to a common confession, has failed. This, of course, was understood by the people, and they sent you to the headquarters of Anti-Population. But you have created a suffocating budgetary gap to make the left-hand parentheses. The government, however, with the support of the people. He has endured both the referendum and the September elections, and he can withstand today. So since the story of the success story didn't come out of you, you said to create exactly a new account. This account was presented to us by the Chief of Officerial Response in Thessaloniki, announcing major tax cuts, but reductions costing 4 billion, which you said you would cover from operating expenses. With the retraction of expenditure, however, we have found that these are 6 billion. And you want to cut down the four billion. This can't be done. And because it cannot be done, all you are doing is resorting to the social state's cutback, because we know that the bulk of public spending is directed at wages, pensions and social protection. So you'll do what you've been told by executives days ago, that you'll be able to cut 1,5 billion out of a few thousand redundancies. Your own executives say it and your own executives are the ones that publish this policy. Your program... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Beyla, up to two minutes longer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u12	...will derail public finances and lead the country to a fourth memorandum, because it is your policy to lead to memorials. After all, a second element that has been given us by the Chief of Staff Response is that it praises businesses that are leaving for tax reasons, as you say, and go to Bulgaria, thereby giving a reward for extroversion and entrepreneurship. Would Mr. Mitsotakis really be a prepared Prime Minister for Bulgaria? Think about it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the next five days it is certain that we will hear a lot. We will listen to the dangers and disasters of Vice-Presidents. But your predictions and disasters are always falling out. The government's on its way to get the country out of the gutter you've put. You stay back screaming, risking and destroying. In 2019 we will be judged for our work, you will be judged for your voices and the deprivation syndrome of power. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being detoxified so that you can make a positive contribution, doing your part as a Civic Opposition, as our democratic civilisation demands. In 2017, be sure of one thing: And surplus will have and growth we will have debt regulation and exit the country to the markets and we will take the country out of the crisis and the elections will take place in September 2019 and you will be back in the chairs of counter-population. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, support this effort and this budget, which gives a new path to the country, a new path forward. This message we can give on Saturday at 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u13	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Constantine Hatzidakis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to continue from where the majority rapporteur ended, who said what achievements will be achieved in 2017, I will add: "And you and the people will live better." That's what this is about. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Prime Minister in Thessaloniki last September said he had the comfort of looking at Greek women and Greeks in the eyes, for fulfilling all his election promises. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, after that, that HISPIA has been abolished! It is unscrupulous that the minimum wage has been raised to 751 euros! It is clear that the 15th pension for pensioners has already been paid back! In the same sense, the logic of baptizing fish meat is undeniable, as the majority rapporteur said, that with this budget the country is making a development leap, it is leading to a socially sound policy and of course faces the debt issue. All this is obvious, but we and we have not understood the whole of Greek citizens. But, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you think. We won't ruin our hearts. However, since we are actually addressing all Greek women and all Greeks today, I will refer to facts and avoid making designations. And you know, the facts, as Miteran once said, are stubborn. And I would like the SYRIZA speakers who will take the floor today, tomorrow, in the next few days, to tell me which elements, from what I am presenting, are inaccurate. I start with a statement: "Many reforms went back. Greece has returned to the recession and we have reached the third programme. Now we're in a stall again. If the country had continued reforms in 2015, we would have saved a lot of time and money." This is what Klaus Regling, the head of the ESM on November 26, a few days ago, in the Austrian newspaper "Der Standard". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You may not be convinced by the first statement. So I continue with a second one: "In fact Greece is now applying stricter austerity measures than it would be necessary if the reforms of the previous government had continued." This is what European Commission Vice-President Valdice Dombrovskis told Reuters in September 2016. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And if you are not convinced of this, ladies and gentlemen, look around you, look at all the polls. See last poll that says 77% of citizens believe that their lives became worse in 2016 than they were in 2015. See all the information published even on "AGE" - they have now ceased to be published - and they say that things in the country are going in the wrong direction to 85% to 90%. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about almost any Greek citizen, except SYRIZA and ANEL fanatical officials, that things have become quite worse in our lives, in everyone's lives than the end of 2014. And if you don't say that I'm theoretical or that I speak dogmatically and oppositionly, I want you to tell me what you disagree with what I'm about to tell you right now. In 2014 - from what I understood, we dropped the government, because we did not swear Mr. Dimas President of the Republic with a hundred and seventy-three votes, and it was not that you went out to elections - with the previous three-street government, the country did not have a perfect banking system, but in any case had a functioning banking system. Today has a capital control regime - or is it not? - which was imposed after the 2015 heroic negotiation and the relevant referendum and is expected to remain in 2017. In 2014 the deposits to Greek banks - not in February that had begun to leave, Mr. Beyala, but at the end of 2014 - were EUR 173 billion. Today it is only EUR 133 billion, EUR 40 billion below! And Uya writes "Tsipras - Kammenos", you like it, you don't like it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u15	The Generator who...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u17	In 2014, the country had a growth of 0.8% and the Commission's forecasts, which you are now invoking, mentioned growth of 2.9% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016. Instead, we had a recession of 0.2% in 2015 and a recession of 0.3% in 2016. Today, what are you looking for? To turn the country back at growth rate, that is, where it was in 2014 and to come out with the "papers" of quantitative relaxation - and I hope you will, of course, be able to do so - testing on the markets, that is, where it was in 2014. Do you know what I'm conclusioning? That you, in the end, are the most fanatical fans of Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Only you can't even get us back where we were in 2014 with this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u18	Please, be careful to listen without speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have - since yesterday - new government celebrations in relation to short-term debt measures. I don't ignore them, of course. However, we must not fool Greek citizens. These measures do not in any case lead to a nominal reduction in debt. In pure Greek: What we owed, we will continue to owe. This is simply an intervention that leads to an amendment to the improvement of the International Monetary Fund's debt-sharing scenario by 2060. And in return for this, the government committed itself yesterday to the Eurogroup to maintaining the primary surplus target not at 2%, as it said, but at 3.5% on GDP and even in the medium term. I make this statement from the Eurogroup. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean? It means almost EUR 3 billion more every year than if the surplus was 2% of GDP, measures which were of course not on the horizon two years ago, measures that the government has already committed itself to being a permanent cut-off. It is in the decision, in the Eurogroup statement, the permanent cutter. In short, small debt interventions, heavy measures for every household and even worse, government celebrations, while prolonging Memorandums, Commission and international financial control. You sought debt relief without a memorandum and received a memorandum without any substantial debt relief. That's what this is about. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, I cannot bear any attention to your reactions to the real relief of the debt that had been made through the infamous PSI of March 2012, as well as the rescheduling of the debt of December 2012. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't get ahead of yourself, they'll follow unpleasant surprises. I'm warning you. Mr Tsipras not only at the time, but also last November he had spoken, as you are now doing - as I understand it, if you were to say, that is what you would say - criminal PSI, criminal regulations that were in debt in 2012. However, ladies and gentlemen, just last summer your government, not ours, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government went to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and gave a judicial backing to the PSI. Your government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Surprises continue, because reality is sometimes hard on those who make demagogy. In your current budget, in the budget we are now discussing, on page 131 of the report, it states: "Central Government debt expenditure after 2012 is formed at the levels of 5,5-6 billion euros, reduced by almost 50% since 2013 compared to 2012. This reduction is due to the decrease in the amount of government debt after the exchange of bonds (PSI) in March 2012 and the repo of December 2012.’ And perhaps because one will remain in doubt, I, ladies and gentlemen, put this page in the Minutes too, to see that we have always said the same thing, but you are firmly insisting on demagogating. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're expensive in pie and cheap in flour. You celebrate some small-scale regulation at Eurogroup yesterday and at the same time consider the debt reduction of EUR 120-130 billion in 2012 to be criminal. That's what this is about. You celebrate the time with your signature even more, you perpetuate the presence of the troika in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever regulation you may have about the debt, it will obviously not erase - as we appreciate it - the enormous damage you have caused in the meantime to the economy for each Greek household. It was not us, but the Governor of the Bank of Greece who spoke of a cost of EUR 86 billion from the Tsipra - Kammenos - Varoufakis. And it is not about lending the country, but it is about certain amounts, which I shall refer to next. It was not us, but the head of the ESM, who spoke of a cost of 100 billion euros, going beyond the estimates of the Bank of Greece. And because I see that Mr Beyalas has his own approach to things, I would like to remind him of a few figures, which I think are neither right-wing nor left-wing: EUR 25 billion relates to the loss suffered by the Greek State since the erosion of the previous recapitalisation of the banks - the money of Greek taxpayers, EUR 5.4 billion from the Greek State's contribution to the new recapitalisation. At least 6 billion lost from the return of the profits of Greek bonds, known as SMPs and ANFAs, which were not returned due to governmental manipulations. Your former MEP, Mr Hountis, revealed this. Measures amounting to EUR 9 billion for the period 2015-2018, with more than 6 billion being implemented in 2015-2016. At the same time as the International Monetary Fund itself in June 2014, it asked our government for measures of EUR 3 billion. I'm not talking about Mr. Hardouvelis or his e-mail. I am talking about the tough case, which is the International Monetary Fund. I am presenting the report. It speaks clearly of measures of 3 billion and of the 3 billion you went 6 billion in two years, 9 billion in three years. This is the philosophical government of SYRIZA - ANEL. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All I've mentioned so far, only this, if you do the calculations, means costing 10,200 euros to each Greek household. Then we have the cost of the recession, at which the country was submerged. I mentioned earlier the European Commission's forecasts and where this went. This year, GDP is projected to be less than EUR 20-25 billion compared to forecasts at the beginning of 2015. That still means 5 thousand euros lost for every Greek household. In other words, the cost of the two-year period is EUR 15 000 for each Greek household and I am not counting at all 40 billion of lost deposits. Of course, you will tell us: 'But you are telling us that you are opposition'. No, ladies and gentlemen. You're talking about it, too. And you're talking about it. You say it on page 19 of the report - and you will vote on it on Saturday - in which you say that "the liquidity in Greek banks was significantly reduced in the first half of 2015, as a rapid outflow of deposits was caused by the increase in economic uncertainty and the recurring discussion of a possible exit from the Eurozone". Did we restore the debate on Greece's exit from the Eurozone, or did the heroic negotiation of that period? I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, I do not need to say again that it is not only the cost we have paid, but it is also the cost that we will pay, as is shown yesterday by the Eurogroup decision, which simulates the presence of the troika and the memoranda in the country, because it is talking about primary surpluses and budget cuts on a medium-term basis and that is indisputable. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish the budget forecasts would fall in. But forecasts are linked to reforms. And as you know - I think you'd accept it to some extent too - you have some allergy in relation to reforming. Connect your forecast for growth of 2.7% with an increase in private consumption and an increase in investment. You say that private consumption will increase, that people will buy more at the time you increase taxes more and therefore, you are reducing the available income. You say that we will have an increase of 9.1% in investment, obviously inspired by what you did with the DESCA, which only three - four days ago a ready privatisation that would mean new capital in the country canceled. Am I wrong and we canceled it or did the invisible hand cancel it? Do I know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u20	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u21	We canceled it! I note that, my dear fellow Member. I will say this from now on that, when I spoke and said about the cancellation of the DESFA, which took place four days ago, a SYRIZA colleague claimed that the New Democracy canceled it. It's SYRIZA logic! Political surrealism! How else can I call it? Ladies and gentlemen, you will answer that, when you talk about growth, you are relying on the European Commission's forecasts. Yes, sir. I do not want to overlook them at all, but we also have OECD forecasts, which were talking about 1,9% to two months ago, and a dozen days ago, he revived his forecasts on the hand and went down to 1.3%. We also have the announcement of the mission of the International Monetary Fund at the end of September in Greece that the prospects for growth remain weak and are subject to high downside risks. I'll put it in the Minutes if you want to check it out. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have the State Budget Office in Parliament, which stresses that forecasts can be called over-optimistic. We have the Greek Financial Council, set up on your day, which uses the same term. But even you again - because this is with this government, it speaks with one language and with the other - in the draft budget report, on page 28, you write about important risk factors that can affect forecasts, such as the lack of treatment of red loans, poor treatment of reforms, limited absorption of European funds, etc. That is what you know that they are not just dangers, but the way you go about it, they are in danger of becoming certain. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the budget structure. Surprise! What do we see in relation to this budget? New taxes, your favorite taxes! New taxes of EUR 2.6 billion. What's that supposed to mean to mere Greek? Just a new HICPIA. HICPI, which was an unfair tax, would not be corrected, but would therefore be abolished now, in this way, substantially doubled. It should be noted that taxes are increasing when one in two Greeks owes the tax office tax and the dues have gone from EUR 75 billion in 2014 to EUR 92 billion now. We now have the following. We lived on the board last week. Mr Tsakalots himself is so pleased about the emphasis you give on taxes, which he has tabled to the committee a diagram, which shows the reversal of the adjustment trend. On the basis of the table which Mr Tsakalotos has proudly submitted to the committee, in previous years the financial adjustment was based mainly on expenditure. Now it's changed and it's based on taxes, to squeeze the taxpayers out, and that's what you're advertising. At least you're honest. I have to admit. You're taxing and enjoying it. Even more, we have another contradiction that I want to raise. SYRIZA argues that the taxes imposed contribute to social justice. The majority rapporteur has said so too. He said there's been the biggest social redistribution that took place in the last decade. Well, let's see. Are the industrialists and shipowners going to pay 437 million due to the increase in VAT? Are the industrialists and shipowners going to pay EUR 422 million due to an increase in taxation on energy products? Are the industrialists and shipowners going to pay EUR 89 million for pay-TV and mobile telephony? Are the industrialists and shipowners going to pay 62 million euros due to an increase in the tax on beer? Is it the industrialists and shipowners who will pay EUR 62 million due to an increase in the coffee tax? Is it the industrialists and shipowners who will pay EUR 142 million because of the increase in cigarette tax? For years, ladies and gentlemen, since I have still been a student, I remember - your resignation claimed that the indirect taxes, taxes to which I have referred, are the most unfair, as they affect the weaker. But be careful. Based on the draft budget report, page 62, the share of indirect taxes from 1.15% in 2014 will go to 1.30% in 2017 compared to the direct ones, i.e. the indirect occupy a much larger share than the direct ones. Is that a policy that expresses you? Is it a policy that supports the weaker strata? Go out and say it because you claim you have a social policy. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm still on the social sign. I'll report some more evidence. Tax evasion, smuggling: Mr Mardas, held up, told us that you would catch 1 billion euros of oil smuggling. Mr Nikoloudis said you would get EUR 2.5 billion and in a semester. Mr Alexiadis was wandering here in the House and presented us with ideas and drawings each time so that we could deal with tax-guns, lists, smuggling, etc. Yes, sir. Very well, only Mr Alexiadis himself submitted to Parliament in October in relation to the audits. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Hatzidakis, you'll have up to two minutes longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, give me more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u24	Do you want four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u25	Don't ruin it today, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u26	You're haunted, that's why. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, in 2014 twenty-seven thousand checks were carried out on oil smuggling, eight and a half thousand checks and the first nine months of 2016 two and a half thousand controls. In fines we had 18 million, 14 million in 2015 and 2.5 million in 2016, now that the controls have been intensified. This is the result of the ruthless hunt against the tax evasion you do. Of course, after all this I cannot say that neither Mr Mardas nor Mr Nikoloudis nor Mr Alexiadis are in their position, but tax evasion is. I'm going on with social. Should we talk about the NSA? You remove it and try somehow to give some bakery crumbs on the other hand into the logic of "to burn you, to grind you honey". Should I tell you about the insurance? Mr. Tsipras said recently in Thessaloniki that only 5% of the retired will see his pensions reduced. However, all pensioners, that is two million and a half thousand of our fellow citizens, have seen a reduction in their income from the rise in duty and from an increase in the health contribution for the EEA. Approximately half of the pensioners receiving supplementary pensions saw a reduction of up to 40% and all the new pensioners, due to the Katrugalos law, are subject to 25% reductions by 30%. Since I do not have time, I just want to submit the list of the single network of pensioners with ten twists that will be made from 1-1-2017 to the detriment of the Greek pensioners. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are also dealing with the humanitarian crisis. You say you gave 104 million euros for the humanitarian crisis in 2015. Is that accurate? Yes, it is! Only equally accurate is that we the analgesics had only given EUR 450 million from the social dividend last year, four times more. So, of the wise a few. I do not think you need to continue talking about the humanitarian crisis. The same goes for social expenditure. You've talked to us again about the social sign. And if you have taken, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, no papers from your party, you will surely say - and take note of it - that the budget is social, etc. Do not be exposed because I have here the table presented to us by Mr Tsakalots to contradict our arguments on the contrary. From the table of Mr Tsakalotos it appears that social expenditure for 2017 is around the same level as in 2016 and as a percentage of Gross National Product. Since the 22.1% that was in 2016 they go to 21.5% of GDP in 2017. It's Mr. Tsakalotou's painting. Coordinate with the Treasury Department. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And of course we all know that in order to address the problem of the country, investment should be made. Well, anyway, it is not good for the government and, unfortunately, it is not good for the country as well. I referred to the cancellation of the privatisation of the CRS. I do not need to go any further. All Greeks have understood it. Foreign direct investment! From EUR 1,26 billion in 2014 - low - they became negative in 2015, i.e. EUR 261 million, and remain negative in the first quarter of 2016. As far as the NRP is concerned, the uptakes you sometimes make - and take care of - are about 5%. Your goal is to get it 7% at the end of the year. I have here a reply to a question from Mr Manolis Kefaloyannis, Commissioner for Agriculture, which says in the tables of the European Commission - and I will put it in the Minutes - that Greece is twenty-seventh in the twenty-eight countries of the European Union in absorptions for farmers. That's why I told you the facts are stubborn. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Activating the development law? Zero! And to be activated, with EUR 500 million in direct payments, is a drop in the ocean in the face of the EUR 100 billion investment that the country needs at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Hatzidakis, do we have to finish in any more minute, because I am in favour of Officer Opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u29	I can tell you once again many years and give me a few minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u30	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u31	Deferred government debts? Well, they have increased compared to 2014 by 63%. The banks are failing with the capital controls to be there and the red loans to increase. Even in tourism we had a reduction in receipts in the first nine months of 5.5%. Lucetta in business: It was a record year in 2016 based on GIM's data. I don't have time. However, if you wish, Mr Colleague, and the President gives me time, I will be happy to speak on all the points.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u32	Five days before us, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u33	We have lived through your structural changes this week. We had a law to simplify the authorisation of horizontal operations, covering all fields, and after you kept them two years in the fridge, you brought one of your own law limiting licensing to three fields. Land usage? You abolished our order of 1914 and returned us to the arrangement for the uses of land in 1987 and waited for investments after that. Country classification in competitiveness? From the 81st place last year you went to the 86th place this year. The same is true of the global bank that we had posted tens of positions in previous years. And of course - and this is a really worthy question - while you have agreed from the summer of '15 that by March of '16' - I have the law here, the memorandum is - you would make a development strategy and submit it to the European Commission, as long as the Greek citizens who are watching us have seen it, so much more you and me and the European Commission have seen it, no doubt. You're busy with others. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're right, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u34	Let's close, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u35	You're right! But I don't think I blamed you. I have presented some facts, which I will be glad to hear you object. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So the government seems to have put its eggs in the debt regulation basket. Welcoming any adjustment to the debt, only that will have little effect on the economy, much more on the way you do it and on the high primary surpluses. But in the way the government is dealing with the economy, I am very afraid that something Mr Papadimoulis said about a few days ago, that all the debt to give us, the country will not be able to retreat, because the problem is much wider than the debt and it has to do with confidence. As long as we have a government that puts taxes and celebrates taxes, weeps about reforms and has turned our economy into a 'blue economy', it is not really going to be a new way. Do we have magic recipes on our part? Not at all. We are not committed and this is not the school that belongs, especially Mr.Mitsotakis, to giving chocolates and caramel to the world. But we certainly believe that there is another way out of the SYRIZA road, the path of seriousness and responsibility, the path of common sense, the path that followed countries such as Ireland and Cyprus that entered and got out of the memoranda. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] You, ladies and gentlemen, despite your declarations, will be the government which condemns Greece to remain in the memorials, the government that perpetuates its presence as a troika. What is needed is a turn, a political change, which allows Greece not to be a country in health isolation within Europe, a second category country, a country without hope and perspective, but to become a country that will win its future. This country has not only a bright past, it may have a bright future, but certainly with the current government, it cannot win it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Hatzidakis, we gave you ten minutes extra. You were trying, but at the same time you needed more time to say it by removing it from other colleagues. Now Mr Panayotaros has the floor on behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, and then he is Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos from the PASOK - DIMAR. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President, for many years. Happy birthday to the Chief of Golden Dawn, to the Members of the Golden Dawn, Couzelo and Mico, to all who celebrate. Above all in our Navy, which despite the difficult circumstances was, is and will always be ready to send to the bottom of the sea all those who supervise the independence and freedom of our country. We have heard too much 'will'. 'They', 'they', 'they'. We have been soaked in the 'will' and in the current ruling buffetings. Alternate "will" with former rulers who hope with new promises that they will rule in the immediate and indirect future or in the ultimate future. It seems that the Greek people are slowly waking up and no longer chewing the spoon that you have been feeding him for decades. We are called upon to discuss once again an economic, virtual budget, as was the case in previous years and especially in 2015-2016, which, on a regular basis, are submitted to the House during the discussions of the committees, but the figures and figures are formed in plenary, and another is the grim reality that we are experiencing outside this House. Faithful in tradition and this budget and its elements have absolutely no contact and relationship to reality. As for the hypocrisy of the SYRIZA rapporteur, if he did not know he was SYRIZA's rapporteur, he could say that he is 'cut-off' to Mr Polakis when he was in power. That budget shall be unenforceable. The figures, the figures, everything tends to show that this budget is not going to be able to reach its level. We are starting with real unemployment, which is falling in the budget for another year. Real unemployment has exceeded 30% according to the statistics of the General Confederation of Workers of Greece. ELSTAT did not deny them, it was simply justified that other methods, by the way, which do not calculate long-term unemployed or other categories of citizens, who are not working but are not counted on the official rate of unemployment, are used in the measurement of unemployment indicators. Unemployment is the A and Oh and the growth index or not of an economy and a society. We're on. A few days ago, Reuters provided information on Greek entrepreneurship, not in Greece, but in another country, in Bulgaria. Only last year the turnover of Greek businesses exceeded EUR 5 billion. Souchet (I-EDN). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Not in Greece, in Bulgaria. Only the Serres Chamber announced that from seventeen thousand companies in 2010, it now has less than ten thousand on a clearly downward path. Where did all these companies go? Some of their homes, some in the neighboring and hospitable - within many or out-of-importation - tax country Bulgaria or some other countries. Twenty-five thousand businesses closed in the first nine months of 2016. Please, for the Minutes, for those of you who are interested in seeing some evidence of development. [[At this point, MP Ilias Panagiotaros submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same applies to the chambers of the rest of the country, especially in northern Greece, where slowly because the free professionals or small and medium-sized enterprises have started strangled without being turned back and cannot breathe, they cannot do anything at all, they move for the outside and not only to Bulgaria, but even to Skopje, in Albania where the investment environment is much better, more stable, much more hospitable for someone who really wants to create a business. England, which was in the European Union and will soon not be, sees that the Greek businesses that are going there are growing because it has a wonderful indeed tax, labour and insurance environment for companies. An amount of EUR 587 billion was made dust, lost during the crisis. Please, for the Minutes to see additional development data. [[At this point, MP Ilias Panagiotaros submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Karamouzis from the 'EUROBANK' also gave some very good figures. From 1997 to 2007, 500 billion euros were granted and he wonders where these 500 billion euros went. They certainly didn't go to the Greek citizen, but they went to various epidemics, mysteries, misadors and to all those who were looking for the Greek economy. And we have other evidence. Business with profits of EUR 2.9 billion paid taxes of EUR 2 billion in 2015 and will clearly pay more taxes in 2016 and 2017, which is coming. I would like to say this in the Minutes, for those who are interested in seeing evidence of the development of our country, from what the SYRIZA rapporteur has heard, but also from the works and the days of the New Democracy we have heard from the rapporteur. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We see companies with profits that once had and now have nothing at all and Greek companies that want and strive to start activity, against everyone and at everything, finding doors closed and leaving. The examples are many and there is no reason to repeat them once again. Of course, at the end of the Greek state, the Greek State loses too much of the profits it budgets and will not see and will be paid in the form of taxes in another country. 76% of Greek citizens cannot pay their daily bills, according to the most reliable debt collection company, "INTRUM JUSTITIA AB". That's to understand what's going on in our homeland. Population is in a free fall, and this is the result of the development of SYRIZA and the previous governments. We have massive immigration by hundreds of thousands of Greeks abroad, legal immigration, the best minds in our country. Those who studied from primary school until they ended the university in the public and free education of our country - which were not so free - are now being received, inexpensively, by other countries to use them as a labour force, a lever in their own economies, but not in our homeland. And all this because of your memorial and ethnic decisions. These are some of the elements that perpetuate your budget. Debt at the end of this year will be at EUR 326 billion, most of all when the crisis started, three months ago, where Greece borrowed hundreds of billions of euros to pay off bank bonds and make the debt from private banks to debt of an entire people, and even mortgage, to the detriment of national sovereignty and society in this country. And really what happened that famous haircut, for which SYRIZA was once in the bars, but which you now went and defended in the European Court of Justice at the expense of the deceased, by you and by the previous micronomists, but also the insurance funds, and the educational institutions and nursing establishments and all those who invested in Greek bonds, and who only got tired of them, not of the various corpses, of the 'big investors' - within many of the quoters - who will collect their bonds in full at the end? And we will also make a little comment - we will come back, of course - on this famous one we heard yesterday - which was, of course, an unprecedented bubble - debt relief, a purely, purely accounting debt relief, which the Greek people will of course never see and nowhere else. On the contrary, it will see extra taxes of some billion euros a year for the next sixty years and at the end - it says - we will see. We are being mocked by small gamblers and you continue to follow faithfully the lines and the theories of all those who are working to break up our homeland. The debt that this year will close to 185% of GDP is projected to exceed 200%. We have also exceeded Japan, a country whose debt is clearly and clearly managed and sustainable, and which is why it can and can be financed by the world market in relation to us who cannot be financed by anyone, mainly because we are governed by few. Two years ago in the corresponding budget debates - for those who remember - we were discussing the Greeks' percentage below the poverty line, which reached 20% with another 20% of the population being on the line, and that falling below the poverty line. All of them are now below the limits of poverty. This figure reaches about 40% of our country's population. We see cases that hurt you, houses with a cut-off current, people burning because they use improvised stoves, die from fumes or burn or anything else, and the vicious, false Greek state not to pay any attention to any of them. And we run from behind to every illegal immigrant. Snow fell - it says - and the scenes of some people filled and something must be done and the entire state mechanism mobilised - the one who never mobilised for any Greek - to help them. For the Greek, however, nothing. Hundreds of thousands of foods a day are thrown into garbage because they don't eat them, they don't like them. But don't even have a shortage of food. At the same time, Greek citizens cannot get those who want, who throw their pride, go to ask, search in the thrown pockets, the closed, the slaughtered ones. It is forbidden for the Greek, because this is why the contract with the company catering, which is paid for by the Greek people, is said. We see that by means of the new measures, according to Mr Tsakalotou's memo, the heating benefits are cut off, the tritecs, luxuries, disabled people, all of them. There's nothing left, everything's gone. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Sadness, misery, misery everywhere. Government and opposition blame each other when memorials come to us and a fourth memorial, which no one can stop from you, of course, because you are all employees of the same outside boss. And unfortunately, we say it, we write it, but in the end, the Greek people, the mothers, our fathers, our children, pay it with the blood of their soul and health. In the preliminary draft budget of 2017, there are a number of elements. Some of these elements are unexplained, but they are worth commenting. It calculates the budget and the relevant Ministry that growth will come, among other things, from the increase in private consumption, which, from 0.6 in 2016, will be launched to 1.8 in 2017. No one explains, of course, how this will be done when taxes are far more and the ability of Greek citizens to spend money will be even smaller than this fierce and tragic. Not the targets, everyone tells you. The President of the Chamber of Economic Affairs of Greece tells you. The figures of past years show that other things actually show. In 2013 you were budgeted from tax revenues of 53.56 billion, but in the end, you collected 52.51 billion. In 2014 you budgeted 55,93 billion, but you received 53,28 billion. In 2015, you were budgeting 55.6 billion, but you received 53.09 billion. And in 2016 you had a budget of 53.65 billion, but you received EUR 52.47 billion. All the evidence shows that the figures with the 51 billion you call for Greek citizens to pay tax this year, when the already stricken Greek people have no opportunity to pay even the previous ones, and we see them from the ever-greater Greek debts to the public, to the private, to the banks, everywhere. Red loans have reached God. You expect this budget to be implemented? So far, the new taxes are 2.5 billion. I'll testify later for the Minutes. The horror of the whole case is that the supposedly fair governance of the Left has indirect taxes more than direct taxes. The injustice of all her majesty. And this is a task of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. A new reduction in the purchasing capacity of the Greeks. Outside the borders, the Greek food industries are investing, because you see, the growth of our homeland is helping anyone who would like to invest. I'm presenting it for the Minutes, for those who want new data for growth. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greek citizens pay taxes comparable to northern Europe, with Germans and residents from Belgium and Luxembourg, where their GDP is much higher and their income is much higher. This thing can't go on. It is at the expense of all Greek citizens, it is at the expense of the Greek economy, it is at the expense of the Greek nation. New shock evidence. A new reduction in the purchasing power of the Greeks. We also see these with various statistics. To avoid boredom, I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are talking about increasing the Gross National Product. But what increase and how will this increase be? When will growth and GDP increase come when non-tax revenues, non-actual revenues fall? From 445 million euros went to 292 million euros. It's the only budget you're budgeting right. The Government estimates in this "development" budget that the excise duty on energy products from -17.6%, which was, will go to 422 million euros in 2017. However, all these elements are questioned by the Parliamentary Budget Office and by the Financial Council everywhere and by the Minister himself, Mr Papademiriou, who knows something after he has nursed the International Monetary Fund, at various institutes in America - who says and admits that all the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund have been completely out. But that doesn't tell you anything at all, so that you can conform and change your data. Less than one hundred and forty-five thousand were small and medium-sized enterprises in 2015 compared to the European Commission figures in 2008. In addition, 35% of their value added was lost over this seven-year period and 22% of employment. We are talking about crushing small and mediumsized, craftsmen, farmers, free tradesmen, who are the real pillars of this nation. It is estimated that from the end of pay-TV you will more than double your revenues from 10.4 million to 25 million euros. What will probably happen is that the world will also give up its subscription television, will find nothing "broken" programs, and we will reach a point where we will only have ERT, which the Greek people will in any case pay for the wine-supporting wine-supplying of the left insulators, the various nowheres and the various nationalists at the expense of our country. Increase the fee for fixed telephony subscribers. No more device left, no one will have a fixed phone call with everything you're doing. The excise duty on beer is increased. We'll see incredible things, we'll see a time of banning, where of course there won't be any illegal whiskey, there'll probably be smuggling beer or smuggling coffee. These things are unbelievably happening in our country since the 'first time left'. The excise duty on cigarettes and tobacco, including electronic cigarettes, is increasing. They estimate to the government that they will receive EUR 142 million. Of course, the evidence has shown that so far 100m euros have been damaged by the smuggling of cigarettes made due to the fact that the Greek citizen, the poor man, the simple, the backbone who wants to smoke a cigarette from buying a package that is full of taxes, will go to take the smuggler, whether it's good or bad. That's very important to him. We see that in the Greek market the first sales of cigarette brands are illegal, smuggling cigarettes. And that is the task of the 'first time left'. Unfortunately, your actions and actions will increase the smuggling, the smuggling cigarette which - as we have said - has been thriving for some years in our country. We also see it happening with the special tax you put in the various wineries. And suddenly, by magic, we see the numbers fall. The production of wine makers isn't falling. Obviously they don't say it all so that they can sell someone on the black market to have some income at the end of the day. There is a EUR 600 million gap, which no one knows how it will be covered. Or rather they know that it will be covered by additional cuts in health and national defenses. And here we stand a little. In these difficult and lazy times when all our neighbours are in charge of our homeland, everyone is shouting, they all want something - until the soups, the uprooted Albanians wake up, the Skopje are waiting in the corner, and the Turks are ready for everything - we are making further cuts. On paper we have three hundred, four hundred aircraft. In fact, they do fly far less. The same goes for all the weapons systems in our country. And the officers of the Armed Forces who constantly see their wages falling are still on the front line, at the border, anywhere, everywhere. And they know they're ready to give it all up, even their lives, and behind they have their households in debt and families with serious problems. However, they remain in the front line. With the budget you have for the Armed Forces, we don't get bolts for the weapons systems. And we hear these hollow words of air for fifth generation planes or anything else. You've done nothing. And if you still take some action - which we do not know where you will find the funds - these will be delayed and Turkey will receive the first fifth generation F-35 aircraft in two years from now. I'm talking about knowing what's going on. How do we ask all those who wear the nation to constantly give, to experience everything that is going on in our homeland and yet to remain in their place? We see that the suicides of the Armed Forces' officers have increased sharply. Really, those who had the short and count suicides, because since they became government did it, did they stop seeing and listening to what's happening around them? In the budget of pain and inhumanity, there is a hidden deficit of 1.4 billion at the Single Social Security Agency, EKKA, which is a black hole in the preliminary draft budget, where it is planned to receive the sum of EUR 2.4 billion and instead it has only received 1.2 billion. So this budget will begin to change at all levels, as we said before. If you want a number, we've told you some numbers. I come to what the Parliamentary Budget Office said, which, unfortunately, has fallen into a large proportion in recent years in all the forecasts it has made. It speaks of the public debt of the country and the report, signed by the officials of the Parliament's Budget Office, says that critical forecasts of the preliminary draft budget, such as growth rates, privatisations, the solution to the problem of red loans and structural changes are questionable, i.e. they are fragile. In other words, you cannot collect from a society that has exhausted its burden capacity. Also, new data from the Parliament's Budget Office refer to when a debt is sustainable: When the borrowing country is expected to continue to serve debts without significant future financial corrections. The exact opposite of what's going on in our homeland. Of course, it is not with extra-real primary surpluses, what SYRIZA was yelling and squeezing the previous ones, and now it is being taken over for the primary surpluses, we also heard the SYRIZA rapporteur for 3% -3,5% 'when you had less' and all that. This means further cuts, because there is no real growth, no further strangulation of the Greek people. Your budget is both centralised and subordinately purely. As we have said before, the importance of reducing the objectives of the surplus is what you have said, that is, there cannot be any development at all. However, you accept what you have just been served at Eurogroup yesterday by the lenders once again knowing that it will be a mistake to the detriment of the Greek people and the Greek citizens. At this point I would like to make a comment on the various transatlantic agreements, TTIP, CETA and others, which our country, our ministers, are supposed to come to the national parliaments at some point to discuss. All this is a plan of about three hundred multinational companies around the world at the expense of national economies. Fortunately, some other people become prime ministers and presidents in their own countries and have it as a pre-election proclamation that they will abolish these contracts for their homelands, imagine how much less for our country, Greece. And thankfully the agenda is changing globally. We see the changes that have started in Britain. The British economy after the referendum, after the Brexit, which leaves the European Union, goes "tree", increased private spending, consumption, increased investments by businesses and all indicators are positive and tend upwards. You should have heard another country that had similar problems with us Iceland. The Prime Minister of Greece made some points about Greece, he said what should be done, but there is one factor, which prevents us from recovering for the benefit of the Greek people, the Greek economy and not the banks, bankers and all international and domestic koruna: the national currency. Iceland has a national currency, while Greece does not have and is dependent on any of Mr Shoeble's applauses about what will happen in this place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will also give me three - four minutes of tolerance. There are proposals for those who want to hear them. First of all, before I go to our proposals, I would like to comment on both the New Democracy and everything he says. She was the one who ruled the country forty years. She is the one who ruled before the SYRIZA government, voted for the unfaithful memorials, did everything, she has shown no sign of remorse, and all she says and retreated is that what the Syrians and ANELs are voting for is what the New Democracy was voting for. And he says, "Let us vote, because we will do much better, because we believe them even better." So if anyone wants to see the third and fourth Memorandums be better applied, let him vote New Democracy. If he doesn't want a memorandum and he wants something else to look a little more right and he'll see the real solution. For a budget for the real development and expansion of the Greek economy we must move in a completely different direction. The Golden Dawn, stable in its positions, has not changed a party from what it has been saying about four years ago in the Greek Parliament in the times of the memoranda. First of all, do you remember that, or did you forget? You've done that, you've done it a garrison! - to see at last what of all this money they're charging us is real, what part of that debt is shameful, illegal and burdensome, and it should be deleted. Because with close to 1 trillion total debts in our country, 326, 200 so many individuals, 200 so many banks, the insurance funds, development in that country cannot come. The debt should therefore be eradicated either for humanitarian reasons or because it is illegal, burdensome and disgraceful. If you do not register a large budget line, which is the mortgage loan, in the 2017 budget, or whatever year it takes, when it ever happens, the Germans will be running to save the prodigal ones. Then at last, we will claim some of the things we owe us and must give us back with evidence. Faithful maintenance and application of the Constitution, in particular, on the issue of thousands of court rulings - we have said and will keep saying it - in favour of borrowers for all kinds of loans to banks, which the Greek state does not apply the law and does not make it the law of the state in favour of them, but it continues to hold back on the miserable banks and bankers. All sacrifices to the defence of Greek workers and Greek products, with what this implies. Protection up to where it does not reach for Greek production and the Greek worker. It is not possible at this time in our country to perpetuate imported products of dubious quality, to perish millions of illegal immigrants, irregular immigrants, or as you would like to tell them at the same time that there are millions of Greeks who cannot find work, anywhere and for nothing. I would like to make a reference here. They ask the Greek citizens to join PPC's regulation for the thirty-six instalments or ask the state to reinstate the hundred doses, even on these unpleasant conditions, in order to see whether they can do anything. At the same time, the vicious Greek state "supplies" the debts of bankrupt municipalities, such as the Municipality of Florida, of EUR 500 million with instalments for the next two thousand two hundred years. Well, do this for both the ordinary Greek citizen and not for the vicious and bankrupt municipalities of Florida, Amarousios and various other regions of Greece, who will pay back to the best of the cases in fifty years. Because that's the only way that the free professional who's slapping, who's hurting, can take a little breath. But you don't, because you hate them and you don't want them. You want so-called investors, those who come and buy for a lentil plate gold and silver in our country. And at the end of the day alone, because you have made agreements and contracts that are in their measure no matter what. These will be the winners at the end of the day. This is a clear racism against Greek citizens for the benefit of few and large multinationals. If there are no tax reliefs, the Greek citizen cannot breathe. So we need a new tax regime much more just, with the elimination of bureaucracy, which even accentuates those heroes who want to make an investment and cannot. Why, you see, in order for a free professional to make a start, you need to get licenses from a lot of organisms. With the new bills, of course, it doesn't change anything at all, you just carry them for a while later. We really need to settle the outstanding debts. If nothing else, as you are asked by the free traders, let there be a set-off with the billions that the state owes to Greek citizens with the outstanding debts of the free traders. To have a facility, after all, so that they can create. Because the Greek knows how to create even in times of crisis. Do not expect Pakistani, Afghan and other irregular immigrants, as you like to say, to save your funds. If you do not help the Greek family - not the bills, to which you are equating the real families with homosexual couples - if they do not have children and not if they do not have to leave abroad the young Greek citizens, but to have families, children, to get into the production process tomorrow, to pay in insurance funds, how do you want to save your funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u38	Please close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. Remove all these laws, which give hundreds of millions of euros to non-governmental organisations, which are mostly managed by non-Greek citizens, who have worked, paid, went to the Army, did everything and now see that others come and have the benefits they should have, while they have nothing at all. No savings in your budget from the overseer public, which continues and pays hundreds of millions of euros in rent, spends from here and there. He can't do anything because you're just a few and incompetent. In order to achieve all this, however, there must be a genuine national government which will put the multinationals and the various institutions aside and deal with the Greek citizen. Unfortunately, we see that for 2017, the Greek people will spend much harder times, which will make them think in 2016 and say what a beautiful year it was, as it will be a landmark year, because all the measures that have been voted on are in full effect. With the three Memorandums, plus one more that comes, in fact, with the enormous economic disaster it has suffered, we do not know who and how many will stand. Clearly, Golden Dawn is voting against this miserable, anti-national, anti-developmental and sub-sponsored budget. God put his hand on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with painful measures, cutbacks, taxes, at the expense of all the social groups, and I should say - we should have changed page for a long time. We should today, seven years after the shock of self-awareness and the sacrifices of our people, be done with the memorials and continuing austerity. We could have gone from the stage of exit to the development debate, the right to prosperity, the fair distribution of burdens and benefits, and unfortunately, I am again saying, instead of that, that we are discussing new long and burdensome commitments for the country and for the next memorandums, as well as no one can call them: a memorandum of plus, Memorandum of Understanding 3,5 Memorandum 4. I want to remind you that when we started this difficult process in 2010 we were alone, since no one agreed to put back on it, when it was then decided that in order to avoid the country's total destruction and unscrupulous bankruptcy, we had to all suffer sacrifices. It was our party that made the difficult decisions. But then, everyone - others from the squares and others from the "Zapopeia" - either invested in the anger of the world or tried to avoid and hide their responsibilities. The cost of the antimonetary struggle still accompanies us, even though, seven years later, the large majority of the House has accepted and agreed that there was no other way. However, joining the national line that we drew up since 2010 was neither unnecessarily nor costly. The political cost, of course, was paid by our resignation, but by the Greek people, who believed lies and easy promises. Those who would tear the memorial, now sign with their eyes closed and have the courage to celebrate over. In the theoretical question whether we could have finished with the first and second programmes, without having entered a third and most horrific, my answer is yes, provided that we would have avoided the double elections in 2012, at a cost of 6 billion, to become Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, and the double elections in 2015 at a cost of 12.5 billion, to become Prime Minister Mr. Tsipras. I will repeat it once again, for the story, where the country was in 2009 and what Mr Tsipras received in 2015. In 2009 the Greek economy was found in the constellation of twin deficits, balance of trade and budget, with the general government deficit at around 36 billion on an annual basis or 15.1% of GDP and the debt being launched at 301 billion, while GDP since 2008 has been downwards. I'll testify in the minutes some paintings. They concern the level and development of the deficit, the level and the evolution of debt, the unreasonable increase in expenditure between 2004 and 2009, which led to high deficits. I say this, so that once again and with Eurostat's official seal the conspiracy developed at the time, behind which too many were hidden and others made careers. This conspiracy, cultivated so far, was closed today by Greek justice. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2014, after a five-year course of labor and sacrifices of the Greek people, the situation was quite different. The twin deficits were completely eliminated and for the first time since 2008 we had surpluses. For the first time, also after 2008, a positive growth rate was reflected. And thanks to the well-known PSI, the unique, i.e. the case of nominal debt cuts, all of its parametric elements were improved and therefore the profile of its viability, which the government now recognizes, namely, the cost of service, the lengthening of the average maturity, its composition, which is an institutional issue and now enables securely to exercise paper for its viability, without the risk of markets. In what adventures SYRIZA - ANEL, the culmination of the pre-election and post-election lies, has now been known to all Greeks who are experiencing the application of the third memorandum. What our people have conquered with their own effort and sacrifices to improve budgetary and macroeconomic levels in a difficult five-year course from 2010 to 2014 has been overturned and together overthrown and the country's prospect of exit from the memoranda. The wounded by this five-year course of labor and sacrifices by Greek citizens, who believed in the balm of the antimony rhetoric and the proud negotiation, see the wounds open and perishing, and now they have lost all hope. What happened yesterday at the Eurogroup shows how an opportunistic and impertinent policy is committing the country in depth to the damage it caused. In other words, the government first aggravated the sustainability conditions of the Greek economy, due to the general downturn in the Greek economy, according to the study of the International Monetary Fund, as shown by the relevant table, which I will now table in the Minutes, from 24-5-2016, and then made the service cost of 15%, which had a perspective of 60%. It agreed after May 2016 to more restrictive and conservative arrangements than the commitments made by our partners in November 2012 and now, commitments of what it agreed to, incorporates this damage with additional measures and commitments, beyond the third memorandum, in the perspective of a theoretically alleged and not nominal - I note it - but a lame on the safety of long-term debt sustainability data in 2060. In other words, the government, having wandered between shameful and burdensome debts and an international debt-cutting conference, now bows to the PSI, but because of inability to negotiate, gives a lot to get a little. He's giving up ahead to get in the future. This is, unfortunately, the situation and the government officials celebrate, regardless of whether Mr Tsipras came today with a tie or without a tie. Because he had pledged that once he solved the debt issue, I remind you, he'll put a tie. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget debate is taking place in a period of general insecurity and uncertainties about the country's progress, civil life, developments in the wider region. All fronts are open and forecasts worrying to pitiful. The economy is bleeding from the combination of recession and tax bleeding. Society is squeezing under the burden of social problems, unemployment, pension cuts and social benefits. The second budget of SYRIZA - ANEL, like the first of 2016, incorporates the costs accumulated in the country by the third most remembrant Memorandum. It is the result of a negotiating tactic, which, after bringing the country to the edge of the cliff, was subjected to unfavourable conditions and then accepted new unfavourable fiscal adjustment measures, which cumulatively amounted to 12.5 billion, and the unprecedented humiliation of the country, which gave creditors the public property for a hundred years. The result of this adventure, in which the Tsipras - Kammenos government complicated the country, is estimated by various analysts and economists from 45 billion to 86 billion, depending on the school they come from. We've been through this room before. We can sum up the loss of deposits, the loss of the value of the shares of the Greek State in the Financial Stability Fund due to the recapitalisation of the banks. We can add the loss of investment and, above all, the cost of the measures in the new SYRIZA - ANEL Memorandum. And all this, to get back to where we were two years ago, that is at the end of 2014. The tax policy and the continuation of austerity have led to the exhaustion of Greek citizens' tax rating, as reflected in the increase in the dues to the State, which were launched at 93 billion from 75 billion at the end of 2014, as well as the increase in the debts to the insurance funds around 20 billion. It is also typical of the reduction of the available income of Greek citizens, announced by ELSTAT, for 2015, of approximately 4.5 billion. In the same period of overtaxation, the government has drunken an artificial containment of costs, as evidenced by the increase in public debts to private individuals, amounting to 6,2 billion from 3,7 billion at the end of 2014. It is clear that the government is going through these artifacts because, above the government's majority, the ghost of the cut, the lawmaker, not the one to be legislated on the basis of yesterday's EUROGROUP agreement. And it deprives resources from the market and from Greek citizens of these tricks by the government. The size of overtaxation in order to achieve the primary result is much greater than apparent overrun of the target by one billion, as direct and indirect taxes increased by 2.1 billion in 2016. Therefore, the achievement of the estimated primary surplus, which the government also celebrates by 1.9 billion or 1.09% of GDP, is mainly due to an increase in indirect and direct taxes by 4.8% in terms of recession, so over-taxation of reduced incomes and reduced consumption expenditure. Therefore, the primary surplus of 2016 has nothing to do with the development and fight against tax evasion, nor with households. On the contrary, yes. It is clearly due to budgetary adjustment measures, which hit all social groups, with additional direct and indirect taxes, increases in contributions, cuts in pensions etc. How left-wing such a policy is judged by the citizens and, above all, by the promises of the 13th pension, the abolition of HPAI, the increase in minimum wages and so on. We must also note that the government lacked liquidity from the Greek State, as in 2016 revenue fell by 2.9 billion from the loss of 1.3 billion from the militarisations and 1.6 billion from the return of the profits of central European banks from the retention of Greek bonds, that is, the so-called ANFAs & SMPs. The continuation of the same policy on taxes and cuts is the 2017 budget, as the planned primary surplus of 3.6 billion or 2% of GDP comes from the cumulative impact of budgetary measures 2015, 2016 and 2017 of 12.5 billion, as I said. According to the draft budget report, budgetary measures for 2017 amount to 4,011 billion, of which 3,051 billion are revenues and 960 million are expenditure. This is illustrated by Table 332 of pages 123 and 124 of the report. So I won't tire you to read them. I would, however, ask the rapporteur of the government majority, who spoke to us earlier about accounting manipulations and terminology, to read this table to see that all old taxes, which are increased from 1-1-2017, are included in the new taxes, which will apply from 1-1-2017 to mobile phones, fixed phones, tobacco, drinks, beer. There's nothing missing. In this table, too, ladies and gentlemen, the cuts in pensions, social benefits and, of course, the deduction of benefits of 871 million are also being analysed. So the net result is 960 million cuts, because the government, after one year's wandering between feeding cards and accumulators, decided to give the Social Solidarity Benefit. In other words, the government, to be informed, takes from the taxpayers and not from the 'holders and occupants', not from the industrialists and shipowners, together with taxes and 4.8 billion cuts to give them less than 900. This trick can you tell us what it is called in answering the question of Mrs. Theanos Fotios, who has also become a slogan: 'Agrees are we?' This is an accounting fraud, which is a multiple of what the government is going to give, and the government is trying to justify the social footprint of the budget, taking from the poor and giving the poorest. These cuts, my dear colleagues and colleagues, concern pensions, are for widows and orphans, for supplementary pensions, for EAEC - 571 million are cuts to the EAEC and other social benefits - and increases in social contributions. A characteristic feature of governmental hypocrisy in relation to the social footprint is what the table itself provides for, that the compensation for the cut-off of the CSR is only 17 million. To prove to you how lame government propaganda is, I will refer you to Table 323 of the draft budget report, with my own deductions, which shows that there is no increase in expenditure in the social budget. Hospitals are the same, EEAY is reduced and so on. So, where is the government's social policy reflected? I'm making this painting, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The 2017 budget, ladies and gentlemen, has an increased income tax on natural persons by 1.161 000. Indirect taxes will increase by 1.3 billion, of which VAT is 769 million and consumption taxes 712 million. This summing up, Mr. Majority's colleague, does 2,496 billion. Is this an accounting term or is it a numerical one of the ones we learn in the first grade and proves where the government will draw the revenues of the primary surplus, for which it is committed in 2017? On the expenditure side, the budget provides for a reduction in primary expenditure by 1.4 billion. It comes from the cuts that I told you earlier regarding security, social care and protection, in line with the fiscal adjustment measures for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, what the report itself sees is that the relationship between direct and indirect taxation by the Left Government has changed and has deteriorated. He was 1,15 and went to 1,3. We are therefore talking about a budget which is a conservative management with a continuation of austerity, tax bleeding and new deadlocks, and this policy, as I said earlier, is neither progressive nor - much more - left, as it affects all social groups. No one escapes: neither employees nor pensioners nor farmers nor small and medium-sized professionals nor free traders. We must now come to the issues of development. The government's high-seasonal scenario for growth of 2.7% in 2017 is not based on the individual elements as set out in the report itself, as private consumption forecasts are much smaller, at 1.8%, for public consumption at 0.3%, while the market climate is well known with the 'luke', the level of unemployment, low competitiveness, non-performing loans, lack of liquidity. All this does not allow this optimism. Even the increase in the Public Investment Programme is completely marginal and with the reduction of co-financed resources it is at the same level as last year. In this context, the underfunding of productive ministries, such as the Ministry of Rural Development or the Local Government agencies and already problematic health and welfare sectors, will co-ordinate with the exacerbation of problems and the reproduction of deadlocks in the miserable climate that will yield and reverse any optimistic prospects for growth and social cohesion. Obviously, the ultra-seasonal government scenario for 2017, apart from economic data and climate, has contrasted the government's ambiguities, the political uncertainty that the government is developing, the government's settlements and the inability of the heterogeneous government's formation to attract investment and even exploit this property of the Greek public. A lot more so since yesterday's Eurogroup decision suggests the Government's complete inability to renegotiate the terms of the memorandum, with which it committed the country and accepts targets for primary surpluses of 3.5% and after 2018, which are objectives that undermine the development path. Unfortunately, the government, first as opposition, undermined the country's course, undermined the well-known deceit, and now it is binding on what Mr Tsipras has agreed and signed. Therefore, in conclusion, the 2017 budget with the new tax burdens and the cuts it contains, as well as the more general developments can make no optimistic, only the government officials - if they believe - about the economic and country course. The fierce black landscape in October with the loss of eighty thousand jobs, the reproduction of the discussions on the under-paid wage, over-elasticisation of labour relations, collective redundancies and lock out, that is to say, what we had taken out of the debate and the government's proud negotiations and agreed yesterday at Eurogroup that it would discuss with the auctions and all that is, unfortunately, the desert on which Mr Tsipras walks and through which the frustrated and afflicted citizens are struggling to survive. And if Mr. Tsipras hears screams, like the ones he told us last year in this day, they're not the dogs that scream, they're the desperate screams of the sad and frustrated civilians looking for a hope. But the government, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, fails to act as a driving force for the healthy productive and social forces of the country to draw up a long-standing country's outward plan from the crisis and a stable political environment. It cultivates and continuously reproduces new uncertainties. This critical factor is missing. It is much more degraded by an accounting approach between the two major parties, which is limited to the classification of expenditure and revenue, i.e. finite and exhausted sizes, because they cannot propose a different course for the country, that is, the country needs, that is to say, development and social cohesion. The shaping of this crucial factor on which the renegotiation of the macroeconomic and budgetary planning depends for the country, as Mr Tsipras agreed - and he finds it constantly before him - requires that we go beyond the logic that is plunging the country, in the name of party strategies of 'go, I come', with a change of political correlations and a change of policy to transform this deadlock into a national consensus policy and a long-term plan of exit from the memoranda and the crisis. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the draft of the Democratic Incorporation and in this direction we are working systematically so that the disappointment of the democratic citizens who have been lured from the lies of the SYRIZA is not transformed into a conservative restoration and a new deadlock. I want to send a message and I from this Step to all those who fight us, because they want us to be one and the other, that on this line we will stick firmly, fight and be justified! We spent our own desert in 2015! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have already tabled our proposals for the productive reconstruction plan, for attracting investment, for tax reform and stability of the tax system, for growth with work and labour rights, for social dialogue and for collective bargaining as a useful tool for understanding, for red housing loans, for the progressive reforms needed by the place. This effort and the proposals of the Democratic Incorporation by society and the citizens are recognised and accepted. We hope that with the change in political relations - which we are sure, as things show, it comes very quickly - we will give the hope to these citizens who lost it, as SYRIZA traded it and disproved them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuko. You've been very high on time. Mr Nikos Karathanasopoulos, the general rapporteur of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate on the State Budget for 2017 is taking place with the completion, let's say, of two years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. So this is a very good opportunity to make an assessment of the government's work and the consequences that this government project had in the widest popular strata. The main feature, as the government itself prouds, is the tough negotiation it has made with creditors, our partners, the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, a tough negotiation that has ended and a result. The conclusion and result was nothing but the continuation of the same policy carried out by the previous governments in the third memorandum. It is for this very reason that it is no coincidence that the remaining parties on the Euromonstrate also voted for the third memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u44	Please, be quiet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u45	So we had a continuation of PASOK's policies at first and then the New Democracy-PASOK co-government, with the aim of serving two interrelated dimensions on the substance: The first issue is to continue to work towards fiscal consolidation, which means reductions in wages and pensions, an increase in the tax burden on people's straddlings and a reduction in social costs. The second objective is to promote, accelerate reforms, the necessary capitalist restructuring to enable the capitalist recovery to come. These reforms focus on the liberalisation of the labour market for an even cheaper labour force, for a labour force without structured labour, insurance and trade rights, a labour force on the substance by reducing its value and, at the same time, a power consumable according to the distributions of business groups. Secondly, the second major element of these reforms is the liberalisation of the remaining sectors of the economy, such as, for example, the 'opening' of the closed professions, so that there can be a violent displacement from the market of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized self-employed people, so that the market can be monopolized by large capitalist groups. It came from accelerating privatisation, slowing down the economic activity of the state sector and divesting state-owned property. The third element of these reforms is new forms of entrepreneurial support, the new entrepreneurial environment which the government is trying to shape through the so-called 'tracking of bureaucracy', which in essence means that any restrictions on the protection of public health and the environment are lifted, so that capitalists are free from any forms of supervision of the urban state, and of course with the new development laws and incentives. In substance, what we can note is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with its policy legitimised the two previous memoranda and all the anti-grassroots measures contained in these two Memorandums, precisely because it maintained these measures and not only maintained them, but on them the third Memorandum came to run on the substance. For this very reason, and we had continued with the policy of reductions in wages and pensions, we had a continuation of the tax race against the people's layers, especially through the increase in VAT. and indirect taxes, which are primarily anti-grassroots, because they affect people's consumption. Above all, besides continuing, he came over to do the dirty work as well. Which one? Whatever the rest of the parties, the previous governments, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK could not complete the crime against the working class and the wide-ranging populaces, the new government came to do so. What led to the insurance - where, in essence, we had a cleansing of the social character of insurance - came to do so by speeding up privatisation. But one question arises. All that we have said so far was the result of a negotiation with a certain association of power. If that was not the case, would the SYRIZA - ANEL government not do anything different? What else would you do? That's the question. Isn't the development of the economy your main objective as a government? Does the New Democracy and the PASOK and the other parties not have this objective? When we talk about growth in the economy, we do not generally speak vaguely. We're talking about developing the capitalist economy. How does the capitalist economy develop? Is she missing the money? Is she missing the means of production? Is she missing the tools? Oh, no. What prevents the capitalist economy from developing is the very low profit rate. That is why capitalists have no incentive to invest, precisely because the profit rate is low. How does the rate of capitalist profit increase? There's one way. One source is the increase of capitalist profit, the depth of the exploitation of the worker. A magical third way has not been found, another way to ensure capitalist profits and at the same time workers have a good time. So it is legality in capitalism - and much more in a rotting capitalism, which has exhausted its limits and is becoming even more inhuman - to break any insurance and labour rights so that growth can take place. So what is being pursued is the development of capitalist profits, which will arise through the shield of competitiveness. The competitiveness of business groups is being shielded in two ways. With the immediate increase in the level of exploitation of the labour force, of course, through the reductions in wages, through the overturns in insurance, through greater flexibility in the labour market, through the abolition of collective divisions of the working class, which means that a worker is consumable. On the other hand, the shielding of competitiveness will result from an increase in labour productivity, which in capitalism, what does it mean on the substance? Even cheaper labour force. The increase in labour productivity is done in such a way as to throw mass workers out of the production process. This is the great contradiction of the capitalist system. While in humanity, at the current level of development, there are all the possibilities to satisfy all the needs - not only of the Greek people but at global level - to eliminate poverty, eliminate illiteracy, eliminate diseases, yet we still see more and more parts of the populace and youth unable to meet basic needs. At the same time, we see productive opportunities being destroyed and there are tools and machines left untapped. All this for what? Because it just doesn't serve the capitalists, it doesn't make them profit. The result of this development that you are evangelizing will therefore lead to nothing but the concentration of social wealth produced in less and less hands and the relative or absolute impoverishment of the working class and the rest of the populace. So, then, the new model that you assemble as SYRIZA, regardless of the course of the negotiations, is a model that hits capitalist profitability, is a model that serves the needs of capital rather than the people's needs. Because exactly in the development law, which you consider your child, what do you say? You're saying that the new model will step on the extrovert. What does "extrovert" mean? Exports. What do you admit? In an indirect way you admit, firstly, that austerity will continue for many more years, and for many decades more austerity will continue, and secondly, that you are adapting the production process not to satisfy the people's needs, but you are adapting the production process and the model to what serves exports. The same thing is about the comparative advantages. Exploitation, you say, by the development law, of comparative advantages. For who? But the extroversion. Where does that lead? In that a number of branches of the economy will be destroyed in your development model, because exactly there will be no incentive for the capitalist to gain, this incision cannot be extroverted, so that we have in your model of destruction of productive powers. Therefore, any growth not only will not lead to the restoration of the huge losses of the populace over the years of the capitalist crisis, where 27% lost average wages, but it will require time-consuming sacrifices and time-consuming sacrifices for the working class and for the rest of the populace layers will be made on the pretext of maintaining competitiveness, maintaining capitalist recovery. Is it a recovery which, of course, is uncertain and will be anemic, because if you want, even at a growth rate of 3.5%, to develop the Greek economy, do you know how long it takes to reach the pre-crisis levels? Ten years. Do any of you here in SYRIZA - ANEL that there can be a 10-year undisturbed growth in the Greek economy of 3.5% on an annual basis? I don't think you're so naive! So to reach the pre-crisis levels you anticipate, it is the future very uncertain and is not even going to come in the next decade, and much more so since the Greek economy is in a test tube, so it is directly affected by the developments of the international capitalist economy, where we are currently in a protracted period of slowdown of the international capitalist economy, which has not yet returned to the levels of the pre-crisis of 2008. The low growth rates are all about imperialist centers, so there is no steam engine from imperialist centres that could pull in front of the international capitalist economy. What are the features that emerge over the entire period of about ten years since the 2007-2008 synchronised capitalist crisis occurred? Firstly, that the anisometry and the change in the correlations of power in the large imperialist centers has deteriorated. So what do we got? In 2015, China saw 76% GDP growth compared to 2008, GDP in the United States only increased by 15%, while the eurozone and Japan remained at the same level as in 2008. What does that mean? It means that China's economy has been made stronger, while, on the contrary, the Eurozone and Japan are in a protracted period of stagnation. It is precisely this anisometry that manifests much more escalating within the Eurozone, where we have: Germany has an 8% increase in industrial output compared with 2008, and its government debt is falling - to 68% now - and to continue on this path of impairment. In France, the euro area's second largest economy, industrial production is reduced, compared with 2008, to not reach 2008 levels, and state debt remains stable at 92%. While in Italy, contrary to the recent referendum, its industrial production has decreased by 13% compared to 2008, and its government debt is rising constantly, reaching 133%. This is the unequal development and the manifestation of the crisis at European Union and Eurozone level. That is why the Eurozone has not benefited all states. In this respect, then, the centrifugal trends within the European Union, within the euro area, have been strengthened in crisis, in economic stagnation and slowdown conditions. Secondly, we are talking about a lack of liquidity. What liquidity is missing? The overcompensated funds that exist are huge. For the first time we have reached this height in mankind. Only the five hundred largest multinational industries have cash, have a cash flow of 1.5 trillion dollars, which have 'parced' dollars, do not invest them. They prefer to keep them 'parced' in tax havens rather than invest. So there's an unscrupulous liquidity. However, there is no incentive to invest, because precisely the profit rate is too low. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Third element. We have a growth in government debt, not only in Greece, but internationally. In fact, the private debt, in order to save the banks, to save the automotive industry, to save other multinationals, has been converted from a private debt to a state debt, and as a result all this dispute over the depreciation of capital - which must be done so that there can be an incentive to the other investment - it cannot be achieved precisely because there are no acceptable solutions. Will Germany take over the depreciation of the state debts of the countries of the European Union? Are the Germans going to pay for the derelict, overcompensated funds that exist? They're never gonna accept that thing. As also no state will accept the financial sector to collapse - Italy, for example - in the name of cutting red loans. As France will never agree to erupt its automotive industries. It will try to save them by maintaining this distortion over the substance of huge funds that do not find a way out, which are overcompensated. Finally, in this respect, the deadlock arises in the management of the capitalist economy, regardless of the mix that is being implemented. Another mixture is implemented by the European Union, other than the United States, but the result is the same, it is common. That is why, because these deadlocks exist, protectionist tendencies have been strengthened both at European Union level and at the United States level, with the election of Trump, in response to the deterioration, for some countries or parts of capital, of the conditions of competitiveness. This in society is turning into an uprooting of nationalism as a urban current, which we will call it this way - the world culture of capital and the internationalisation of the economy, and the following is said in an economic programme. Trump's financial programme, for example, says a reduction in corporate tax burden, state support for business groups, an increase in state costs for the benefit of capital. This is the programme of protectionism, which was presented here, beyond the most genuine expression of this view and perception, by the Golden Dawn, which, in essence, highlights its role as the role of protecting the interests of business groups. So this situation, so the transfer of economic power from the North Atlantic to Southeast Asia, the change in the correlation of power is exacerbating the contradictions. It exacerbates the strong opposition between the United States and China, but also the smaller contradictions, such as the opposition to the future of the eurozone between Germany and France and Italy, for example, which seem to lose the role of the United States in this burden-sharing dispute. This is a conflict which is exacerbated by the control and sharing of markets, which can lead not only to regional conflicts in our neighbourhood, to South-East Asia, but also to a generalised war of very large scale. In this context, therefore, the Greek economy is also trying to develop, and in this context you are negotiating. Where did the negotiation lead to the second assessment? It led to the Eurogroup's decision that the relief of the State debt by 20% by 2060 should be accompanied by primary surpluses of 3.5% for many years. The dilemma would be whether we would have primary surpluses of 3.5% over a decade or whether we would have a fourth memorandum with the participation of the International Monetary Fund. That was the dilemma on which the government negotiated. So who did the government negotiate for? Has it been negotiated to relieve the people or to negotiate what mix will serve the interests of capital today, having as a common denominator that the people will pay the broken not only of the crisis, but also of growth and write-down of the debt service? Mr Chakalotos said so very clearly. So he said that we want to reduce the primary surpluses to 2%. This 1.5% that will be left over will be translated, says, to a reduction in corporate taxation, to shield competitiveness. It will not go to lowering the taxation of the people, but rather to the taxation of businesses in order to reduce even further. This is a scandal and it proves the class character. But, if you like, the logic that you say about the alliance of the South has now been stripped of. What South alliance? Italy, France and the anti-grass and anti-grass measures they take? Where do they want to lead the situation? Just to shield competition. For this very reason, and the logic of the end of austerity, of the policy that Obama put forward for the end of austerity, is not the end of austerity for the people. It simply says that the people will continue to bleed over time and stop austerity for parts of capital, to increase state spending on capital and to support business activity even more. So, with one or the other mixture, the people will pay for it. This is evidenced by the state budget, which is anti-lingual, classic and is a tool for redistributing social wealth produced at the expense of peoples and peoples for the benefit of capital. It is a tool for implementing anti-population policy. The evidence is revealing. We don't say he won't be executed. However, even if it is implemented, we will have an increase in the tax revenues resulting from the income tax on natural persons by 14.5% and an increase in indirect taxes by 5.8%, and unlike for businesses, it is planned to reduce even further this low percentage in total tax revenues. This is a 7% reduction compared with 2015. This means that the tax revenues that will "charge" the business groups - on the basis of introductory terms, because they will never be charged, after they have passed on taxes to the workers and the people - will be much less than 6% of all tax revenues. And the remaining 95% who's gonna pay for it? The usual suspect, the popular total layers. With your budget we have even worse of the ratio of indirect taxes, of indirect taxes, of anti-grass taxes and of anti-grass taxes, but also of speeding up privatisation, of which 2 billion extra revenues are planned. We have new reductions in wages and pensions and in the financing of social security institutions. How does the bloody surplus turn out? Through the measures you say! That is, for 2017, the budgetary measures that will be taken are EUR 4.011,000,000. Of these, 770 relate to one way or another reductions in the social security system and 3 billion relate to an increase in taxation and some - around 80 million - wage reductions. So this is the package that you bring to the people with your new state budget, the anti-grass costume you're trying. What do you think? You celebrate giving 700 million for the needs of the most impoverished layers. I mean, you get four billion dollars and you return 700 million. So who pays this extensive poverty that you have created with your policy? The less poor people pay for it. So what are you doing? You share poverty in more and more popular layers of substance and at the same time not only maintain intact, but you are even wider the privileges, tax and development for large capital. From this point of view - and I conclude, Mr President - is the controversy which we are witnessing here among the parties, which, in essence, are aspiring? To shield capitalist profitability, be it SYRIZA, either the New Democracy or the PASOK or the other parties of the Euromono street. Actually, what do you tell the people? Choose between Scylla and Harybdis and fight about who took most of the anti-popular measures, you are fighting about who will be the best manager for the capital, you are fighting about whose policy will serve the needs of our business groups and the urban order of our country. That's why you're fighting on the substance. So, what do you really want? You either condemn the vote of confidence by the troika, by the European Union, by the International Monetary Fund, by lenders, by the bourgeoisie, because you can serve their politics and interests better than New Democracy, and continue to bleed the people. From this point of view, the credit provisionally is yours, because you are making the most dirty game at the moment. You perform the most dirty contract against the working class and the people. Can you do it? Are you still capable? From this point of view, of course, there is no way out of the New Democracy's proposal, nor much more is the proposal of the Golden Dawn, which has been revealed today. What model does she like? Bulgaria's model, the Skopje model or the Great Britain model, which means total equalisation of any labour rights, is why it was the first to create the slave trade offices with 300 euros. This is what Golden Dawn wants, therefore, very cheap workers, workers without rights and new incentives and advantages for large capital, for business groups, either tax exemptions or incentives. The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn said so very clearly. Bulgaria's model says what good it is, Skopje's model or Great Britain's model. So here is evidence of and is confirmed that it is a systemic party and of course its criminal character at the expense of the labour movement. There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u46	If you're kind enough, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u47	I'm done with this. I'll be done in a minute, Mr. President. Is there a way out? We say that there is no way out of capitalism for the benefit of the people. Whether you're on the left or the right lane leads to the destruction of the people and the working class. However, we say that there is, of course, a way out for the benefit of the people when it is released from these bonds. Why is there a way out and why is it realistic? Because there are all the productive opportunities in our country that can satisfy all the people's needs. It is rich in productive potential Greece. There is technology, there is science and its evolution, there is an increase in labour productivity, which can just satisfy the popular needs. Why can't this be done? Who's blocking it? Aren't there the tools? Isn't there the know-how? There's all this. Capitalist profit prevents it. So if we do not end the capitalist gain, we are not going to see the use of productive potential for the benefit of the people, we are not going to see the satisfaction of the people's needs. It's not going to exist. That is why the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece means what? That we're eliminating capitalist profit. Eradication of capitalist profits means eliminating what is hard for the people, means socialising the means of production, so the tools of the economy become popular property, means central scientific planning to develop all production capabilities and it means releasing from the imperialist centres - that is, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and NATO - and developing economic relations on a parity basis with all states. This is the suggestion of the Communist Party of Greece, in this proposal we call on the people to fight, to organise their struggle. There is no need for any waiting, no illusion of the recovery that will come, because it will be a recovery bleeding at the expense of the people. On the other hand, he must organize his struggle to prevent the new anti-grassroots measures from being implemented, in order to relieve and supplement the losses he has, but above all to overthrow radically the correlations of power at the level of authority. This is necessary, overall, for the people and the working class to pass in the counterattack, to overthrow the association of forces for deeper ruptures and overthrows at the level of economy and society, to really open up the avenues of the future for the whole of humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you to the general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. The rapporteur-general from Potami, George Amyras, has the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I had a strange dream. So I dreamed that I had gone to Cambridge University and suddenly John Mayn Keenes showed up and said: “Don't worry about what you're going to say in the speech on the budget for 2017. He takes out paper and pencil and note what I tell you." It therefore makes me the following letter addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Euclid Tsakalotos. So he says to me: “Dear Minister, I apologise for this intervention, but I have been following your drama for some time. I must tell you that I had some expectations before your national elections when you said you would negotiate with the European Union on how to deal with the crisis in Greece. However, after the elections, I did not see any negotiation, at least as I understand it, from where I am from." Keynes says this: "The issue is that in order to negotiate one must rely on one's own analyses and values, and then he must create links, allied with others that have similar analyses and values. And, unfortunately, in Greece, I don't see it happening. The European Union is faced with a single and with the same recipe as the weak countries. Incidentally, I see that economic orthodoxy remains as rude as it was in my day when I was dealing with similar arguments in the MacMillan Commission to reduce deficits and wages in conditions of recession and unemployment. For you in the European Union, things have had to be easier. In a monetary union, the economies cannot see interactions between them. The European Union cannot function permanently in favour of those who are strong as a single economic area without coordination and solidarity. The only solution proposed for weak countries is a long period of recession and deflation." Kayce continues in his letter, which he dictated to me to address the government's financial staff: 'It is assumed that this way - we should not hide, that is, through unemployment - prices will fall and products will become more competitive. Except this process takes a long time to work if it works. And it is often abandoned on the road, since it is not enough to reduce inflation at European level, but prices need to be reduced further to address the problem of accumulated deficits, all previous years. This recipe cannot be a basis for negotiation. To negotiate, one must have his own image of how economies work. Only in this way will it be able to dismantle the ideas and therefore the arguments of the opponent in the negotiation. Only with a different approach will he be able to find allies for an alternative strategy. Your country is entering a long period of recession. If you don't change the agenda, I predict problems getting worse. I'll come back. Yours sincerely, John Maynard Keynes. Ladies and gentlemen, the dream of Kaines, as you can see, didn't see it. But your Minister had seen it, Mr. Tsakalotos, who, on January 31, 2010, had published in Sunday Eleftherios Eleftherios the letter of Kynes to the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Georgios Papaconstantinou. As you can see, this is where the dream ends and nightmares begin. I am sure that Mr Tsakalotos yesterday, coming out of the Eurogroup, would remember something from this letter that he had written under the name 'Kaynes'. In his honor, his statements were tied together. He was apparently restrained under the influence of what was shared within the board’s closed doors. Unlike, of course, the Great Maximus spoke of a triumph. We just missed watching dances and municipal songs with young people and young people in the Constitution. Unfortunately, yesterday we had political puppies. By announcing the Prime Minister's press office, he called on all political parties to take their positions on key issues of negotiation, such as "the rejection of all thoughts on additional austerity measures after the end of the program". In other words, as the Maximus tells us, the government has rejected the austerity measures, but the opposition will bring them. The nice thing is that the Minister of Finance, with his signature at the Eurogroup, accepted the prolongation of the harsh austerity, commitment to primary surplus targets of 3.5% beyond 2018, but the Prime Minister's office called on us to resist the perpetuation of the memorials that Mr. Tsakalotos had just signed. But what happened yesterday at the Eurogroup? The main conclusion is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has accepted endless austerity with objectives that unfortunately cannot be achieved. The Prime Minister himself, recently speaking at an event here in Athens, argued that everyone knows that we cannot have a primary surplus of 3.5% beyond 2018. Yesterday he committed himself to maintaining the target on a medium-term basis which could be from three to ten years, as Mr Diaselblum said. Second conclusion: The financial cutter is also extended after 2018 and is essentially permanent. Third conclusion: The famous second assessment is still to be closed. On the contrary, Europeans are calling for clear commitments to new structural measures in work and measures in socialisation, and the debate is being referred back to January. Fourthly, the IMF raises serious objections, assuming that the objective of the surplus is impossible and the measures to reduce the debt are insufficient. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen of the government: With this negotiating ostrich that distinguishes you, at the end of the day, we will have over 3.5% by 2022 and the debt will remain intact on a medium-term basis. I come to the section of the short-term debt measures which were also the occasion for the fairs in Maximos. It follows from the reading of the measures that there is no direct reduction in the nominal value of the debt, but that it is settled in time between 2040 and 2060 by changing parameters such as interest rates and repayment time. Should I say it differently? To live to remember us. To live those who are born today that in 2050 and 2060, when they will be in the middle of their lives, they will remember that a generation of forty-fours in 2016 led them to be indebted to the ears and with an endless austerity so that they, the next and the next generation, hope that something will happen after they are now entering the deep old age. Also in the short term, i.e. in the years to come, interest costs are increasing and will be reduced over time. So as in this year's budget you say that interest costs are down to half compared to 2012 and before due to the other PSI, the next budget - well to be next year here - you will write that the cost will be increased because of the Tsakalotus decision. The relief estimated at 20% of GDP over the period up to 2060 is the inappropriate account we paid for loans and the third recapitalisation of banks, as well as the relapse of the recession from 2015. In other words, you have deteriorated the financial sizes to improve them since 2040, and then as far as the debt is concerned. At least, with the debt relief in 2060, you will confirm Keyce, who said: 'We will all be dead in the long term'. Eurogroup's decisions are not for festivals. You bound with your signatures the country not just for a fourth memorandum, beyond 2018, but for a memorandum of duration. Instead of learning from past mistakes - Mr Tsakalotos, the government as a whole - you repeat the same and worst mistakes. Instead of running the reforms that are left in the middle, you abandon them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u50	You tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u51	Who are these? Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u52	I'll tell you later. Instead of suggesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u53	Say one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u54	Is it reformed that you gave for a hundred years - yes, I'm sorry, ninety, not even a hundred years - the public property in the superstition? Is that what you're telling us reform? Instead of running forward, see how you will create new jobs, protect the party state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u55	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u56	Instead of strengthening the economically weaker, you reduce the income available. Haven't you heard anything about increasing taxation and especially indirect? That is therefore the framework of the budget that we are debating today. So if I wanted to give a title to this budget, I would say: 'Measures without measure'. We are talking today about the 2017 budget, but some things are not clear. We already see that there are leaks in the Greek and international press that there are discussions about a supplementary memorandum with additional measures from 2017-2018. We hear leaks from government officials saying that lenders demand additional measures of EUR 4.2 billion for the period 2019-2020. So, as you can see, the Tsipras - Kammenos memorandum does not end in August 2018, but we will go for an extension. Really, all these months, what are you negotiating? What are you negotiating? Where's your credibility? Where is your economic policy for the recovery of this country? How will you stimulate areas such as the real estate market, which always have an important role to play in development? How will you improve the financial environment for small and medium-sized enterprises? They have lost all financial support and unfortunately, they are massively migrating to the countries of the Balkans. There is no strategy, no more tacticalism. Most importantly, the government has lost the most important element that is a foundation for getting the economy forward, confidence. We are not trusted by the lenders who ask for EUR 4 to 5 billion in advance. Unfortunately, not one investor, a Greek or a foreigner, who listens to Greece and flees on investment. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 you were supposed to get us out of the memos. You put us in a third memorandum, and now you are preparing for the fourth. So I'd say your negotiation wasn't the most amazing. Large businesses change their registered office. Depositors keep their money outside the domestic credit system, while investors - as I have said before - do not decide to place their money on the banks because of doubts about your subsequent moves. Citizens constantly see the account of your policy to grow and beat the real economy, to beat family budgets, to beat the design of the small and the professional. In this context, therefore, I would say that the budget text, which we are debating tonight and in the next few days, comes into second degree. This is because, on the agenda, there are already additional tax measures not described in the budget text, for example, the abolition of 1.5% in the retention of wages and pensions. Does this not lead to a corresponding reduction in earnings or a reduction in social benefits? So the debate on the budget is fragmentary. Can anyone from the government confirm that no other measures will be taken in 2017 than those described in the budget? Here, please, come and say it publicly and make a commitment. I hope he'll give us some answers about what else he's waiting for us. As far as the content of the budget is concerned, even with this fragmentary picture for 2017, I begin to believe that the government hopes in miracles. Oh, of course! Because it tells us that the economy will acquire a strong growth orbit of 2.7% but with the public investment programme established, with additional taxes of EUR 2.5 billion for 2017. For every one billion new tax, you tell us, the economy will gain in growth of 1% in GDP. This theory may be the subject of a new letter from Kayce to the Minister of Finance. The miracles, however, on the basis of what you have written in the budget, continue. Unemployment, you tell us, will slightly deviate. I wish, but tell me how you will deviate when the burdens of business are increasing, the contributions for professionals are escalating. The demand, you tell us, will increase. How will demand increase with smaller incomes? Investments, you tell us, they'll run, they'll be abundant. How when the militarisations are incarnated? Will anyone tell us what's going on with the Greek? Will anyone tell us where a new issue has finally arisen as to whether or not certain buildings are or are not arbitrary, whether or not any other in the Greek area is maintained, whether or not some parts and even between the take-off and landing runway and the sea are forest, despite the fact that there are presumptions that we had plantation in the 1950s in these tracks? How? Explain to us. We also have to discuss and place ourselves on the budget without knowing some very important, key elements for the image of the economy. For example, no one knows whether or not the IMF will participate in the country's new financing programme and on what terms. It's good to tell us, so we know how we're going. Will additional tax measures, such as a reduction in the tax rate below EUR 8,600, also be required? I hope and believe that Mr Chakalotos will not have to resign again, as he said, when he said that from EUR 11 000 the tax will not fall with that Minister. Also, will pensions be re-cut through the scoring of personal differences? We hope that Mrs Ahtsioglou will have a better excuse and invoke her in her letter to pensioners than Mr Katrugalos, because, as you know, they have not convinced the pensioners. You're going to release team redundancies to business? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u57	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u58	You rule. Don't you know? No, of course, we're telling you. You guys officially go out and say it. That's all you told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u59	What's your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u60	You were thinking about the memorials and you made us three pluss. And we go with endless austerity of memos until 2060. Are you proud of the result of your cruel and proud negotiation? You are?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u61	Sure, we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u62	Are you proud to mortgage the property in the superstate for ninety-nine years? You're proud! Are you proud then, Mr. Polakis, that the minimum of 751 euros that you would take him down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u63	What lower?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u64	The minimum wage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u65	Please don't interrupt the speaker. Keep going, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u66	We last established the minimum guaranteed income in only a few areas for 2015. 39% of Greeks, dear Mr Polakis, live below the limits of poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u67	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u68	What do you think? You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u69	We brought them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u70	Oh, no. I'm asking you if you're proud of it. What do you do for two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u71	Did we bring them? Forty years...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u72	Can I tell you something? You're right about forty years. I agree. But do you know what's going on? The signer of a third memorandum, do you know what he's saying? That the two of them didn't reach him and he wants a third. The one who signs the fourteenth pension reduction, in fact what he tells us? That the previous thirteen pension cuts did not reach us, we incorporate them and go to the thirteenth. That's the difference. There is, therefore, a gray band of negotiations that differentiate the final equation for the economy. In the budget that we are debating, the government adopts some mistakes of the previous ones, those of the forty years. Can I remind you of the wrong multiplier? It still exists and leads us deeply to the recession. I also remind you that the first memorandum was a tax cocktail, more, 70%, and 30% expenditure reduction. Bad? Kakasto. And the IMF retrospectively said it was a big mistake and led us deeper into the well. In the second memorandum, the ratio has changed. We had 70% cut costs and 30% tax. Now, we're going back to the first memorial. In other words, more taxes, less spending reductions. 97% of interventions are tax increases, and only 3% are expenditure cuts. But can this budget be implemented? Can he achieve his goals? According to the text we have in our hands, it will be a year as I said - it says the budget - of strong growth at a positive rate of 2.7% compared with a recession of 0.3% which the government is considering for this year. This prediction is rather unrealistic and will undermine the policy you want to build. Why? Because private consumption will increase by 1.8%, while the public's available income will be reduced, exports are supposed to be increased by 5.3%, but with increased corporate taxes, investment will break every record at a rate of growth and implementation by 9.1% when we still have capital control. These are incompatible things between them, and I imagine that if you were in the opposition, the same concerns you would have developed. Let's go to the big unemployment thing. Here, then, there is a reduction from 23.7% this year to 22.6% in 2017. However, the latest data from ELSTAT on unemployment and the recruitment and redundancies balance, unfortunately, are negative, have a negative sign. They therefore show that even the marginal downward trend of the last two years has unfortunately been halted - unfortunately, I am telling you - while increases in taxes and contributions restrict the space in which work with new jobs can be developed. Also, the budget we are discussing provides for increased taxes in 2017 by EUR 2.6 billion. However, these additional revenues will not come from the fight against smuggling of tobacco and fuels. The promises of economic ministers, who said that in the year the government would bring EUR 2 billion out of the fight against these two black wells, of smuggling, would still be heard. And I say again what I have said many times since the Step of the House: What will happen now? Are these smugglers? Why, over the last 40 years and you two years now, can't you put your hands on the smugglers? Where's the on-line input-out system in the stations? Why are we taking steps back instead of going forward? It is no coincidence that you have stopped writing a budget line to combat tax evasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u73	The institutions are not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u74	Where are the bills, ladies and gentlemen, for undeclared deposits, unreasonable business accounts, the linking of business cash machines to the TAXIS system, the extension of use of plastic money? Why are these structural changes missing from the budget? These are reforms, ladies and gentlemen, which you reacted before. Unfortunately, the taxes on this budget are socially unfair. They shall not reasonably reduce the adjustment costs. and we can see this in Table 3.6 as regards the linking of tax revenues. Everyone knows, from the first-year financial school student to the late Kanes, that the indirect taxes are unfair. Otherwise, it is faced with increasing the price of fuel by a bio-processor and, otherwise, a large-scale industrialist. Just stuff. Indirect taxes now account for 56.4% of total revenue, while direct taxes are limited to 43.6%. It is the most onerous ratio of direct taxes to indirect taxes since 2011. It has nothing to do with the declaration of social justice. Where's social justice? Great imbalances, too, can be seen if we are looking at the expenditure side. So we see that for 2016, as far as expenditure is concerned, it has escaped. The budget itself for 2017 lets it be assumed that there will be excesses. Can or can the Treasury not put hazelnut on this state's expenditure? Even some funds from the new budget are indicative. In the Ministry of Migration Policy expenditure almost doubles, which shows that the refugee is here to stay. It is a problem that we have to deal with in the medium term. In the Ministry of Education we see a small increase in funding from EUR 4.3 billion to EUR 4.5 billion. Is that enough, ladies and gentlemen, to fill the gap in the underfunding of education? The criteria for evaluation of units and teachers are also lacking in politics. The Public Investment Programme remains the same in 2017. Didn't you say as a opposition that you would put the Public Investment Programme as a focus, as a front of your policy to get out of the vicious circle of austerity? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Even worse is the situation in the insurance system. You are increasing insurance contributions by EUR 1.3 billion in a lame economy and in which professionals are exterminated tax and insurance. Free traders, self-employed workers, broccoli workers, as of 1 January will pay contributions equivalent to 26.95% of their income. If we add tax advances to this, the charges amount to 70% of their income. These are unprecedented situations. But the truth is that Mr. Katrugalos had prepared us directly since last summer. What did he say? 'If we need to increase taxes a little.' Yes, sir! I speed up a number of figures: Family allowances are reduced by 10 million, as lower income criteria are laid down. At the same time - and this is the most worrying - Greece is ageing. In 2014, ladies and gentlemen, only ninety-four thousand children were born. Expenditure does not go to support the family. We are the last country to support the family throughout Europe, with only 0.7%. All these deadlocks are reflected in the debt. You denounced the previous ones, who had been rounded to their chairs for forty years - as you say - that the debt was paid to 120% and went to 160%. What are you doing that for at 186,7% of GDP for 2017? Was the PSI finally destructive for the country? I will not repeat what you are writing in the report. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end, Mr President, the budget you are bringing to the vote has a lack of credibility and reform. You are applying a policy that you probably don't believe in. English is executed, as an older politician has just said. The reason is simple and Mr Chakalotos analysed him in his letter as another modern Case. You have forgotten your ideas, you are implementing a policy that you do not believe, you adopt state-owned practices that have caused the crisis, you sabotage privatisations, you are exacerbating the problem with negotiation instead of solving it. In other words, you believe that you will extinguish the fire of the recession, sifting the taxes. If Caines were alive, I believe he would rebuke the replicator, a student, Mr. Chakaloto, who, though a professor, quickly forgot what he was teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u75	Thank you to the rapporteur-general from the river Mr George Amyras. The general rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to note - I think you are all observing it - who are missing from the House. New Democracy's missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u77	Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u78	Not one in the last three rapporteurs. In other words, at least one should have honoured the coup d'état they had with the PASOK two years in this country. It's a wonder why no one is. Of course, I'm still not ready to talk to cameras and TVs alone, but a audience is always needed. So we are not inspired by the presence of the New Democracy. I can say that the opposite inspires us more. It would be nice if they were here, because I would like to see reactions to faces of people who in recent years - politically, always speaking - have been acrobatic, who do not have a reasonable explanation. Honestly, with their suggestions today and from last night to this day, listening to journalists who are close to the New Democracy or opposing the government of ours, SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, television stations, radio stations, analysts in newspapers printed this morning, were trying to destroy yesterday's Eurogroup agreement, the great success of our government. And, frankly, as an expert in my work, I am ashamed that there is no - I honestly say it - someone, on any channel, who can come out with a documented view of financial study and tell us how and why - to substantiate his opinion - it is not a good agreement, from where and where the agreement is not good. One didn't come out to put the numbers down, see the debt profile, see the curves, see what we had, what we got, what we got, what we got, what we're going to give. Why did Europeans do it? Because they love us? So all of a sudden, Mr. Shoeble loved Alexis and Pano? So we are now saying that Shoeble and Diasleblum came in yesterday and fell in love with them and says: "Children, okay, we tortured you and now you're going better, get something for the debt." Is that the truth? I'll give an example. And, I repeat, they're missing. And it's not from PASOK here. I was going to raise yesterday's deal on the debts of PASOK and the New Democracy. We know very well from the exam that they owe more than 400 million and immediately dueness, on the basis of legal actions that we have seen now - they are not here as well - they are 350 million. Let's say it's a party and it has 350 million directly dueness, denounced in court. And let's say that these debts, which are immediately due, came a good gentleman one day, who was called Diaselblum or was called Junker and said to them: "Masters of PASOK and New Democracy, for the 352 million who are in the court court immediately due, with denounced contracts..." - not with a payroll profile in 2060 today, I want them tomorrow, because I'm going for forced confiscation - "I'm going to give you some money to serve you today." I'll see you later on about the net present value. I'm not technically tired of you. I'll leave it because I can't take it anymore, and I get the technical complaint. So he would say to them: Today take the 352 million, serve the public, where you owe your debts as parties and pay me, with 15 years of grace, at 1% interest rate, for 32.5 years and beyond, and here we are, here we are, see - now how we combine - the surplus of your political power into the future elections that are vague, as are the surpluses and the growth and the interest rate that has changed in fifteen years. Nobody knows the interest rate that goes with mathematical guys. However, if he would say so to these two parties - I will say that you would get more than 15%, so that we have 15 million a year or 10 million, how much is coming out, I don't know the FEK, a public subsidy to the parties - and that would take them all. So today what did we understand in this House, ladies and gentlemen? That with this agreement and other technical techniques that New Democracy and PASOK are not here to vote against. He would say 'I don't want to, thank you very much'. Would he go to us, to the rest of the parties, and he would say, would you come along and vote, so I wouldn't get this deal? I do not like to serve my debt, I do not like to be sustainable, I do not like to have financial air to move politically, to make ten trips, to do three training courses, to print posters in the elections that are coming, I do not want all of this to be honest, I do not understand how they stand up to them. My example is too practical. We'll say a lot about the PSI, even if we're on our own. What does this country need? I also said in my report that this budget is the most important budget in the last decade. The reasons are good and are one of the main reasons why we are voting in favour of it. We do not vote for him because we are confronted with the very good government of SYRIZA, but because this budget needs to be achieved. If it doesn't work, we've all been destroyed. Whoever comes to govern in 2018, 2019, as they call it, with failure in the 2017 budget, with what we wrote with pain and blood - and so, no one is happy with budget and taxes, but we will see them and I will explain them in the time we have to succeed. Because foreigners, lenders hold 80% of our debt. I'll leave you in the Minutes and what exactly have we borrowed. It's bonds, air. Of the 400 million we've taken 280 million, and we've only taken cash 45 million. All the rest are bonds, they're securities. We were also charged with interest on top, that we had coupons. It's a mess. They didn't know how to set up the mechanisms either. Now, be careful. Interest rates are exchanged for them by floating at constant rates. Now imagine what we're talking about. You are coming again, PASOK and New Democracy, and you say that we say yes to the deal we give you the 352 million you owe, I give you a fixed interest rate, you will have no risk if there is a geopolitical problem in the country, if Italy flaps next door and go up to the loan interest rates in the European Central Bank, you, PASOK and New Democracy, you will pay your debts with 1% and say "I don't want". It went yesterday to dismantle Italy with 400 billion red loans in the one trillion that Europe has. 40% are the Italian banks, which attract 65% of all banks in France, Germany and Spain. He's got each other's debts. They're state-owned corporate bonds. It went to chaos and Greece has 1% interest rate for 32.5 years of grace period. We have also taken another restructuring and another debt project - to be easier to serve in time, to leave the margin - and they do not want it! I mean, not to the Greek people, I don't want to! But what did we want until 2014? By 2014 we wanted to deliver to SYRIZA - Independent Greeks 80 billion red loans. He received them 22 billion in 2009 and gave us 80 billion. I don't say that, the Greek Banks Association says so. The painting's here and I'll leave it all. We were given 80 billion loans, nine hundred eighty thousand young people, minus only 8.5 billion in contributions, due to the nine hundred and ninety thousand unemployed, broken banks, for they cut 38 billion in banks and then three recapitalisations and two bankruptcys, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this country has gone through two bankruptcies. Do you understand that? Nobody said it. We've been bankrupt twice, technically and not just. For the restructuring of debt and the PSI - the success of which is 5 billion and I will bring the numbers, to end this story tonight - means a complaint to ISDA, to derivatives, to America that Greece is failing, changes the loan terms, that is, the terms of your bonds, unilateral energy, go ahead, bankruptcy, default! It's over. In December, the second debt repurchase, second default, second change in bond terms, 11.3 million to get 30 million, second bankruptcy. Look, it's two bankruptcies official, not politics, and we had to talk to the channels. We went cashier blacks, bucket. I'm saying it popular. It's bankruptcy, it's over. What does bankruptcy mean in our own business, in my village, which I say many times? No one believes you, if you blow up once, twice in international markets, and you have state bonds, which are considered to be one of the safest in the world, Sovereign Debt. Who? Seniority everywhere. The first time that it went bankrupt, a country that was wound up, like the companies we made at my youth, was Greece. We've been cleaned up for six years, and now we're the ones who're going to save the lot. Those who have ruled - as they have ruled - and, in order to politically save their arguments, they want us to worship and testify crowns at the PSI. There's no way we can file a wreath on the PSI. The PSI has a wreath for a savage, it has a wreath for another job. She destroyed Greece because she came out of the markets, went bankrupt twice, now lost credibility once and for all, finished, so they couldn't get out of the market from 2012 onwards. The simple question is, he says, 140 billion. Well, I'll show them now what they did with the PSI, they didn't have any haircuts, but even Mr. Hatzidakis' argument, who is still not well informed by his financial staff. Is it possible with such a high capital debt service, not interest, not to go out in a year's time on the markets? Shouldn't you have a viable debt? Be careful now, it is like saying that PASOK - New Democracy - apologise again, but it is missing and no one is mistaken, the void is mistaken - from 350, denounced by forced confiscation, they are called 'children, cut you 170' and they say 'ok, we've cut them'. Then they say "children are not viable, because, in order to bore you at 170, 53,5%, at the PSI, we loaned you another 93", which is in the contracts within, and the debt went one. Why didn't the debt drop by name in the 140 billion debt notes? Will a man, a Christian in this Chamber, answer me? I have all the debt notes at the end. Since, he says, he cut 140, the Treasury has to go "children, 360 minus 140 coming out 220", to make a three-year nominal debt. Never! Why? Hasn't anyone wondered? Oh, no. We got 47 billion bonds for the banks. Watch out, Financial Stability Fund. It is not my CFS, it has been set up by the previous government to get money, to borrow Greek citizens bonds, i.e. the debt of EFSF, who is borrowed from the markets, to give it to me his bond, to do it recapitalisation to the banks, which the PSI has successfully haired PSI 38 billion. We got them 38 billion. Question: How many stayed in Hold Outs? What does Hold Outs mean? It means how many didn't work. Does anyone know how many didn't work? I'll tell the numbers at the end. How many didn't participate and why didn't they participate? Was the PSI volunteer? How's the PSI volunteer when you borrow 35 billion and oil them to participate? It's in the contract with what I'm saying, that's not what I'm saying. It's my job. In order for volunteers to participate, we borrowed all Greeks 35 billion to give them - 'cheese' is called in our own language -'sweetener','sweetener'. I mean, we gave them 30 billion to participate. We borrowed 5.5 billion for declared interest until that time and another 35 billion to buy the bonds from the banks. I got the numbers here. I say it orally, so we can get through quickly. So why didn't the debt fall? Because from where it was under Greek law, he turned directly into English law. It's not just English law, it's never been known what English law means at that time. It is that he left the markets and went on to states - but what? - and it was made by a bond loan. Watch a difference! From a market bond, that is to say, that I confess that I am going to pay for it in ten years' time - I confess, it's like giving a post-dated check, good faith, taking the other one and selling you a car today - it tells him that "yes, you know, I haired you, but we didn't all participate, I have 64 million more that they didn't participate." When I was out, Panos took me one day - we'll talk about it tonight - when he was at the meeting of the Heads with Papademos and we were at the foyer in Maximos, and they called us for the phones to be paid unarmed. I can't tell who he got either what amount or whose money it was. There were calls at the time of the Heads of State meeting, which became chaos in Greece and had to be very serious discussion, we decided that we, who were at the foyer, should say, yes, get tired or not get tired of a bond, pay 90% profit, from 60 million market secondary to 453. Let's decide we weren't political leaders, we were consultants. I happened to be there. I was told by Panos 'Come and see what is going on with economics'. We got away with it and got paid elsewhere. We took with banks 38 billion at one, 47 billion from the PSI, the recapitalisation from the disaster, and they gave us a write-down of 25,194 billion shares on 31-12-2014! The people lost 25,200 of the value of their shares, the CFS, which was created to recapitalise the banks, as I said before. We lost from the value of the shares 25,200, over 80%, on 31-12-2014, not in 2015, but in 2014. I put it all in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's easy, it's not hard. Watch out now. We are now lending for thirty and a half years. I'll leave the painting for you. You'll forgive me, because I was writing them quickly, alone, and he's a manuscript. I have all the bonds today since 7 p.m. on what all the countries are lending for 10 years and 30 years of bonds. Let us say, if a country in Europe borrows thirty years, what interest rate does it give? We borrow at thirty and a half years and 1% interest rate. Austria in twenty-five years with 1.229%. Belgium, over 20 years, has no 30 years of age, does not give a 30-year bond from Belgium - with 1.125%. Denmark for thirty years with 1.054%. Finland for 15 years - does not give twenty or thirty years - with 1%. France over thirty years on markets with 1.441 %. Germany for thirty years with 1.036%. Hungary with 3.90%. Ireland has a ten-year bond with 5%, because it has nothing but ten years. Everyone borrows on the markets more than we do. So it's a huge failure of ours! In other words, last year's failure, which took the 54 billion that ended in three years and took them to thirty-and-a-half percent, and the IMF with 3.8% and the other half-weighted 4% to thirty-and-a-half percent, instead of three-and-a-half years, is a bad deal, when you see what happens in other countries! I put it in the Minutes and forgive me for being a manuscript. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We today, if we were on the market, would be with 6.5% and 7% in twenty-five years. If we were to go to the market for twenty-five years, we would be with 7% today and we would now be taking it thirty-and-a-half years with 1%. That's a bad deal, the worst one ever! Can I tell you something? Those who have not achieved politically - and I understand that, because I, too, slowly gain a relative experience - have a way to stand politically. They are far from listening, because they do not need, now what to hear, they have solved all their problems - and they blame others. I didn't blame anyone, I'm just defending myself. I defend myself with my knowledge and the damage that has been done at home. I honestly don't blame anyone. Mr. Venizelos knows how much I respect them for their minds and intelligence, but it was wrong. In other words, take care today of colleagues, Mr PASOK, Mr New Democracy, Mr Potami - I do not know what the ladies and gentlemen will say - 99% will be depositing a wreath on the PSI. I really don't understand that! I leave here the table of the debt mix, which is currently saying something very simple. Right are the EFSF data. He says we've only taken 47 billion cash since 141 and the rest are all bonds. It also says where he went what from the EFSF and where the money went from the ESM, what we're covering. It's the full last night's analysis. Watch out now. That's a classified painting. This painting shows after yesterday's deal how our debt changes. I'll leave him in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It analyses - it seems the image, I imagine - what happened after the agreement and what happened before the agreement, the chaos, what we had to pay for. You see it here for every year until 2060, and here it is how it gets down and goes and grows a lot after 2043 and we see it. What's the important thing? On the blue line down it says about the EFSF, the PSI, the LM Factory. LM Factory is the loan we only received for the PSI, to serve the sweeteners. This is served 2022 to 2043. Look at it, please, ladies, it's a loan we only got for the PSI. There was no volunteering. We left it all to the Greek people. Here is the eye of the PSI agreement, and I have put you in the articles, all the articles that say what we borrowed. Let me read them like this in defence. The agreement is called Liability Management, namely the management of requirements for the PSI and has 30 billion loans for Greece, so that I can translate it - partly - to fund voluntary participation. It's a 30 billion loan! It is 35 billion, so that Greece can finance the bond takeover. These are loans that we received for the PSI 30 and 35 billion from the Central Bank and 5.5 billion euros we received for the declared interest, which we had to pay them to go to another deal, because those who gave the bonds that were changing their bonds at that time had to be paid. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's fine, it's nothing difficult. To finish with this lie of the PSI, here I have all the debt issues. Whoever wants to be involved. I have also made my notes, for how the debt was not reduced and how it returned from public internal use and the requirement of Greek law and a minimum outside - i.e. 85% of the bond in Greece and 15% of the bond abroad, outside Greece, to all of them from 265 million and to have reached 70 bonds and to have taken the loans from 0 to 280. It's all in the internal debt notes on the second top right page. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the loans we received in 2009, the public debt was 298 million and was delivered in December 2014 to 324 million. No relationship with the PSI. Watch out now. In 2009, Greek law bonds were EUR 265 billion. I'll tell you how much participated and how tired they are. From the 265 billion in December 2014, we had 66. They left EUR 199 billion, a nominal value of EUR 200 billion of bonds. But what happened in 2009? Of 54 billion, the loan went to 218 billion. The loan difference is 35 billion, the bond difference is 66 billion, the difference between 35 billion and 66 billion makes us the difference from 298 billion to 324 billion. Be careful: Whatever we've done, we didn't tire and we said, "It's okay, we're changing it with something else, to change the car to get another, two-door," but we destroyed the country, we went bankrupt twice. We made 80 billion red loans, one million unemployed and, at the same time, two bankruptcies, we changed the debt and borrowed, instead of having bonds of Greek law and finding them between us with the banks of 40 billion, so that we do not need to borrow for them all, with the real estate, with the Agricultural Fund, with the red loans that were then only 25 billion, we would have found the end on our own, but we should not have found it on our own. Please keep here for any colleague who wants to see the evolution of bonds in relation to the change in the composition of the debt profile. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To go a little bit to development, this budget will be development for many reasons. The most important thing is that we work for it. They're not here to hear it, they'll see it in a video. We don't work to vote again. I don't do this thing, I don't think it's going through my head. It has to work, it doesn't take us. I can't bring any revenue. Watch out, parallel revenue. We've been talking to Christos here how many times, with Tremson and Katerina, we'll talk to you. The bills are coming. So, with regard to the VAT they lost, why is it not New Democracy here to tell us why, from 2009 to 2014, it lost 32 billion VAT? In a recession the economy, with a few transactions, therefore a few sales, and we lost 32 billion VAT, and we are going to be able, from 6 billion in the time we are losing, to collect with the mechanisms - which I will read very quickly for the Minutes - the VAT that is being lost. We did not have the budget to take it, because it is not allowed and it is right. We will, however, get a big piece of plastic money and the bill that will come and put it in the 2018 budget at this time. We will have taken it and we will say 'Masters, it is and it is a permanent measure'. It was the mechanism, so you will receive 1 billion per year of the 6 billion a year for VAT evasion, 5.4 billion in three-year measures. We also have a change if we had the VAT. No, we mustn't change the state, leave it as it was, beyond, but it's above and above. It's all over what we have to do. This is where businessmen must be protected. It is right that an increase in taxation is not a direct development measure. The indirect tax is not fair either. We have no financial margin. But what yesterday's agreement, which they would not even take for their parties, is that you are seen by markets with another eye. Elections don't take place, they don't exist. Well, we have to tell the channels in the morning that we're having a great time. Political stability. Seriousness, competitiveness, work. With the sustainability of debt, Mr Draghi's report - and he will also produce a report by the IMF at the end of this month - and Mr Draghi will say to the IMF'so things go'. He also wants a document to go suggest that we get the bonds, i.e. either take the Greek bonds or exchange them. Last year's deal we discussed with Euclid. What does that mean? Cheap money on the market. Cheap money and cheaper rate. To reduce the cost of debt servicing the household, which has all the unemployed. Mr GSP had said 'I wish one out of four to work'. It is a wish, that is, instead of all four working. With red debt in the household, reduced as zero available income, as we in the measurement, the service of the red loan must be reduced. Lowering his interest rate is so simple. It's an indirect in the pocket. There'll be money left for consumption, so growth will come. At the same time, we have also moved on to privatization. The Greek and the 'COSCO' and the OLTH, which will slowly come, and everything else that is being done as an infrastructure, is the pillar, the backbone of development. Our position is strict geopolitical. We're a bridge. We don't want to, we have to take advantage of it. Airports will do and build, I imagine, fast, the double-way train, because they do not leave containers without a double-way train from Thessaloniki. All this has to be done. I understand and sympathize with the opposition. He doesn't understand financially. He doesn't understand yesterday's deal. In no way does she understand it, and unfortunately they have not explained it to each other. As Independent Greeks we are voting in favour of tomorrow's budget. I will leave two technical notes - one might want to read, one might get bored - on why and how do we calculate the discount in the calculation of the net present value in the current loan, which is about the cost of borrowing, it is about the growth that you expect, it is about how much years it will take to predict it, what is the goal you want to have for debt to be with GDP. It has to do with all of this, that is, with too many factors, but unfortunately that is the calculation. That's how it happens today. Again, I say 54 billion euros left in thirty-two years of the three-year period. Others left this year with about EUR 1 billion empty financial margins every year for the economy. If we're capable - and I'm questioning - we'll make it. If we're incapable, we won't make it. It is not possible for this agreement not to succeed, that is to say it is forbidden. I'm leaving the notes for this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to end - and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - all the wings of the House to understand that growth does not come on its own. He needs a job. He needs a lot of work. It's not ATM's truth. It's the truth we're talking about. The other one's going to see the housekeeper's clearing house that's coming to him and it's going to be 50 euros less, because he's going to have dropped his interest rate. But Greece - be careful - will be stable. I mean, if he becomes a panic in Italy, we're covered in a risk. So the markets and someone who will invest his money in Greece after the QE and then the exit to the markets with 3% we need to get out, which is not good, because with 1% we borrowed and going with 3%, the mathematics in the table I have here tell the truth. If the interest rate changes in time, relative to GDP growth, it breaks your fraction. Your pure present value doesn't come out so good. However - be careful - this stability is what the investor wants. He says, where would he put his money? Losing them? But he doesn't want a fixed interest rate, a fixed low interest rate? It wants recapitalised banks, stable political scene, restructured the Development Ministries, so that all - and permits - can be quickly done, we can go to cash quickly, we can get the FDI, the Foreig Direct Investments, they can enter as foreign investments within the Bank, as deposits, i.e. entering deposits. To do this, we must not destabilize the country. Here we are to work to make the country stable. But, please, not spit out politically, because the political slag has close legs. It's like lying. We need to work to bring about results. We manage eleven million souls and twenty-five million souls of Greeks outside Greece, who say: 'Hey, children, what is going on at home? I have a house in the village. Should I sell it, give it to a German or keep it, go back on vacation?" Shouldn't we bring him back to Greek? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you to the rapporteur-general for the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos. Recently from the rapporteurs-general, Mr Marios Georgiadis from the Central Association. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to wish for many years to those who celebrate, both within Parliament and outside, and in our Navy, which has its honour today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask us to make a little quiet, because, apart from tear gas outside, I have the impression that we are hearing dugs and junkies. It's a huge success. I read them completely differently. I may not know financially as friend Dimitris mentioned earlier. These developments are clear that they will have such dramatic repercussions for the country, which, I am telling you frankly, if we as the Central Association had an institutional right, we would issue an order to the Greek people to warn him of what follows. Because the war is not the only one that brings the suffering or the tectonic earthquakes to ruin. The destruction is brought by all those who are willing to sign everything in order to stay for a few more 24 hours in power. Please agree, agree and sign delivery terms for our country, our honor and our dignity. Do you all realise how many billions of additional measures are required to maintain the primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP over the medium term? Unfortunately for our destiny, there is this total weapon of destruction, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which hesitates against nothing, does not count either home nor people, nor sacred or loyal. We are now calling on each Greek and every Greek woman, who is watching, to see the entire length of the plenary session of the House until Saturday, to listen, to read, to ask and to learn every detail of yesterday's agreement and everything that they reserve us. Thus, he will know and convince beyond doubt that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is the one that deprives the future of our children and the one that erases any designs and dreams that they have been able to do. Until yesterday, we knew that the government with the superstition mortgaged our public property for ninety years and we were willing to live with it. Yesterday, we learned something much worse: it has now mortgaged wages and pensions, health, education, water, air and the feelings of every citizen who lives in this country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, history sometimes has many injustices. Some lucky ones in front of the cliff have a stream to fall. In Odysseus, in front of the Dog she had Harybden's arms. In Greece today, ladies and gentlemen, we have no alternative. History can't come back on January 25, 2015. It is absolutely certain that this government will take one to the end. Because we agreed to sign the absolute memorandum of indefinite duration, without the right to complaint. On the 2017 budget, I would like to start not with my own words, but with what the State's Budget Office points out in the House, that, that is, the 2017 budget has a real impact in the short term, because expenditure reductions and tax increases inevitably work in fact. It also states that forecasts for private consumption, investment and exports can be considered optimistic. There is a follow-up: "By maintaining the unemployment rate at a high level in the medium term, the target for a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP over the medium term is considered sufficiently ambitious. In addition, the 2017 budget is a centralised one, overtax will continue to operate particularly distortively in the economic environment, which is an obstacle to the achievement of positive growth rates.’ That is not what I am saying, but the budget report, which I tabled to remind you of those who have not read it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, the State's Budget Office tells us that almost all the forecasts for budget figures are rather arbitrary. More specifically, the forecast for GDP growth by 2.7% is unrealistic, since both 2016 and 2017 were years of unprecedented recession and GDP reduction. We are now going to develop, as has been said, investment and privatization. It is possible to increase GDP and growth that privatizations would be an important role. In 2016, however, the government's forecast for the collection of 2 billion against the privatizations fell out by 1.5 billion euros. What elements of this government's capacity can we count on compliance with the timetable for 2017? Therefore, your optimistic forecasts of upcoming growth are completely utopian. Investments now look like a distant dream and reality tells us that important and serious investment operations are cancelled every day. Take, for example, the Greek, for which investment has not taken place on the basis of the forecasts, but, firstly, the date of ratification of the concession contract is continuously postponed, which goes for the end of 2017. It is unknown when the Integrated Development Plan will be adopted, when the Strategic Environmental Impact Study will be submitted and when the cavalry will be defined. It is unknown when a casino legislative framework will be filed. At least in the near future, the delivery of the property to the investor in order to get the first 310m euros, since the government does not dare, as it seems that it has not taken care of any infrastructure to transport immigrants and refugees to another place of hospitality. In fact, as a Union of Centres, we have signed the initiative of Democratic Incorporation in order to set up a committee on the Greek issue. Another tragic example, which proves the inability to deal with serious proposals - has been heard, if I am not mistaken, by Mr Hatzidakis - and is the fiasco of your alleged intention to sell DESCRIPs to the Azeri 'SOCAR'. This means loss of EUR 188 million for 2017 only, according to what is stated on page 140 of the report. I am making a report on this issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For this hole, which is a tranquil proof that the budget is fictitious, we must be told by the relevant Minister or ministers, the government representatives, to what kind of cuts will be made to compensate for this loss. The third example of irresponsible management of an investment proposal is Qatar's investment project in the Zakynthos shipwreck. The methods of the Ministry of Finance have angered the authorities of Qatar, which are threatening by retaliation the eighty Greek companies that operate in Emirato. I mean, not only did the investor leave, threatens us and above that he will cut us off the current cooperation we have with his country. I submit a relevant report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Cancel water. If I don't have time, read it in peace. Cancel wind energy CDF. In the air 250 million euros from this investment. Let's go to some other particularly negative events - I don't know if it's a story - to read what we're losing like Greece. Could not close temporary folder: %s Read them, 'cause you might not know them. Huge deindustrialisation of the country in 2016. According to moderate BSE calculations, in order to balance this huge deindustrialisation additional investment is needed, in addition to what is made annually, at least EUR 100 billion by 2022. A large increase in business-beds and in 2016. To date there have been twenty-five thousand companies, of course, which have created overtax and lack of liquidity. Relevant article with statements by Mr Michalos. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not only do you not do anything to get the investments to come, instead you do everything you can to leave with them and any potential investors. Ladies and gentlemen, the recreational trips in Cuba and the inappropriate similarities of the fifty years of dictatorship - listen to me, listen to me! - our struggle of 1821 will not bring growth or hope to the Greek people. Your populism has no boundaries or borders. The chorus is that the 'NEW YORK TIMES' places your President among the eight local European populists and, in fact, is squeezing next to the top right fringe, that is Farage, Lepense and Hoffer. I personally, if I were a member of your parliamentary group, I would be in trouble with this global recognition. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] On the other hand, I only feel ashamed as a Greek citizen, because your President is not only the President of your party but also the Prime Minister of the country. I make this article just a few hours ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u81	Your president, where do you rank him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u82	Our president is assigned to him where your own cannot reach us. I won't have a dialogue with you. You don't like what you hear, but you'll hear it. Unfortunately, the motto you give for the current bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u83	Mitsotakis will call you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u84	I don't want any Mitsotakis to take me. Don't worry, Mr. Polakis. No Mitsotakis I don't want to be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u85	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u86	Unfortunately, truths hurt! So the motto from this bill is: ‘Expens private entrepreneurship on the altar of maintaining your client state’. Let's go to unemployment. We wonder how irrational it may be that a government, which is taking away unemployment, plays the pain of hundreds of thousands of unemployed, because on the basis of information from the information system 'ERGAN', it appears that for October this year they were fired by the private sector of eighty and eighty-eighteen more employees than those employed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u87	Do you read them backwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u88	Let me talk, finish, and as soon as I'm done, you can say what you want. It is the worst performance in 2001 than that observed in these figures. And those who have found jobs have not solved problems, since 62% of the new recruitments concern parttime - so I respond to your tourist season - or rotate employment with EUR 200 wages. I'm tabling the relevant table that's depressing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're going to the taxation that also involves a paralysing economy. The tax raid is so great that the input targets are reviewed upwards even in the middle of the year. This is not an investment climate, ladies and gentlemen, but a hostile move against the country's productive forces. I would remind you that on the basis of the upward review, as I said this year's target and the figures of the tenth that we have at our disposal, the sum of EUR 8 billion from the planned taxes should be collected by the end of the year and we are only twenty days left to complete it. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thus, we see that the private economy is driven by alpha or beta way to illegality. Greece is estimated at 25% of GDP, which ranks it in one of the worst positions in Europe. This means that about 40 billion a year are being moved out of the system, resulting in a loss of revenue of EUR 15 billion. We can all imagine how many problems we could have solved if the government did not choose this wild tax on Greek citizens. When the citizen feels that he is taxed fairly, when he has compensation from the State, then he will only be in the process of paying. But both you and the previous governments have divided citizens into two camps, those many who pay taxes and those few party customers who eat taxes and even undeclaredly. In the case of the taxation of legal persons, according to the budget, the total revenues of the State from the companies in 2017 will be with the optimistic forecasts of 3.2 billion. In short, all companies operating in Greece give the Greek public as much money as the state spends on wages and pensions within one month. With such a productive model, we are not leading anywhere. We will continue to be maintained by lending and fierce, and those who produce money will be constantly persecuted by the incompetent and ideological governments of the last decades. And let's leave the tax. Tell me what's going on with your banking system. We are closing a year and a half with capital controls and I do not think we should get it over with soon, or at least in the near future. As well as being in a good mood, one can only be angry at what is stated on page 18 of the report, that it is allegedly a strategy for dealing with the high stock of non-performing loans so that the domestic banking system can finance growth in the long term. It is also known to the most immaterial that the rules on capital adequacy do not allow banks to release capital for any funding. We have been experiencing this suffocation for six, seven years, and all the entrepreneurs, both the big and the small, know it very well. As for the most important indication that indicates that something changes in the economy, namely the return of deposits to banks, the October figures from the Bank of Greece are catalysts of you. Not only do they not return euros to the banks, but the SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues to cause fear and terror to all householders, since even today 38 billion who have made wings since December 2014 remain in the layers due to obviously lack of basic trust. Another table at your disposal. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And with regard to the quantitative relaxation programme, I would like you to tell me where we are. Consider that at the same time as we are suffering so much, in the rest of the Eurozone literally rains billions with this programme and only our country is outside because of the unacceptable economic policy of the government in the first half of 2015 with the millions of what Mr Varoufakis has done and has deprived us of this possibility. The burden has now been placed on prayers, so that next Thursday the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi, will keep the program active until at least the end of 2017, will we be able to join and join sometime? I would remind you that, in order to be included in quantitative relaxation, the second assessment must be completed and debt made sustainable. Tell me what's happened to both of them. We're waiting. Of course, you may celebrate, but the European Central Bank itself does not see the decision yesterday on short-term debt relief measures enough to participate in quantitative relaxation, so that we are still in the air. Within this pitiful setting, how do you estimate that we will have growth, investment and GDP growth? With a miracle? Or do you think your debt settlement rhetoric will bring us investments? So someone who wants to open a business in Greece think the first thing he cares about is the country's public debt? Debt as a nominal value does not mean much, at least for investors. There are countries that have disproportionately huge debts in relation to us and are robust and productive, as well as ideals for investments. Our problem is that we cannot serve our debt because of our unreliable position on the world market. No one trusts us, because we have political instability, a complex and inconsistent tax system, huge contributions - insurance, solidarity, TECs and so on - small technological infrastructures, small purchasing power, deflation, huge unemployment and above all ideological allergy to investment. The government of recent decades has made the country crippled and is waiting for it to live only with credit and unscrupulously, in a climate of cancellation of investments, closure of businesses, tax raid, legislative complexity and the continuation of state growth. Let me remind you that almost every bill establishes a new general secretariat or a new agency with new posters' seats. And we're waiting for growth to come. And I'm coming back to the budget. We see that its main feature is that increases are planned only for taxes and contributions, and reductions only for benefits. Increase in direct taxes: EUR 1 billion. Increasing indirect taxes: 1.5 billion euro. Increase in insurance contributions: 1.5 billion euro. Reduction in subsidiary: EUR 150 million. Reduction in CSR: EUR 450 million. And all this so that we can make the government under the budget support the revenue increase for 2017. We have a storm of EUR 2.6 billion - cigarettes, oil, solidarity, VAT on the islands, and so on, not to mention them, we have said them a million times - with indirect taxes making an impression in 2017, as it is estimated that they will bring revenue to the state funds of EUR 1.5 billion. Indeed, at the level of the tax of legal persons, State revenues are estimated to increase by 14.5% compared to 2016. All these estimates are meteorological, especially for indirect taxes, because the purchasing and investment climate is at the worst possible stage. And we are going to the budgetary problems and the position of our country in Europe. As far as the quality characteristics are concerned, I will mention the "Heritage" house that monitors the economic freedom of all countries. It states: It ranks for 2016 Greece of SYRIZA - ANEL in position 138 in the world and in the 41st in Europe and accuses it of being "mostly unfree", that is, in general, basically free, while we are below the world average. I am putting forward articles on this subject. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the social state is concerned, you claim, gentlemen of the Government, that it is your first choice and that is allegedly demonstrated by the introduction of the so-called'social income of solidarity'. You forget, of course, that the EUR 571 million required will be deducted from other benefits, social, family and prosperous. In other words, you have the choice for each poor to fund two poor people. In addition, how do you explain that you have missed the fact that, as of 1 January 2017, the social structures for the direct treatment of poverty in all municipalities across Greece will be found in the air? As you know, it stops funding from the NSRP and there is no way of recruiting officials to continue operating the structures, even with the municipality's own resources. A suitable solution needs to be found immediately for the smooth transition to the new NSRF 2014-2020 in order not to be deprived of the care of a hundred and twenty thousand helpless economic citizens. I am speaking on behalf of the CEDEFOP's letter to the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The outrageous thing is that, while we have so much state spending on GDP, we have an unacceptable social state. Paboles of low pensioners, inadequate care, inefficient public education, increasing homeless and young people, who have ended up in the NGOs and in the church to get a portion of food. At the same time, however, from a favourable and opportunistic perspective at all times, there were retroactively adopted in judiciary and teams amounting to EUR 149 million, which could have solved the issue of homeless people touching forty thousand. And we are not talking about refugees, we are talking about Greek citizens, former taxpayers and now newly-paid people. I submit to the Minutes relevant articles. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continue with Brain Drain. You have no end in all of this, and the deterioration in human resources, talented and educated youth, which is now taking place in other countries, is continuing. You're not doing anything about this bleeding. On the contrary, do everything you can to make our world and our young people go abroad. I am making another relevant article. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As Dimitris Nanopoulou said, the former President of the Academy of Athens could be an international centre of theoretical and humanitarian studies and a large fund from abroad to come to study philosophy, literature, theology, literature and so on. I see time is running out, so I'm gonna pass some things. We are going to the so-called bomb for our heavy industry, tourism. In a year when arrivals record over twenty-five million, the government managed to present reduced revenues, because it matters not only the number of tourists but also the amounts they are willing to spend. They are 9.2 reduced compared to August 2015. Losses for the Greek economy amount to 750m euros. In addition, the per capita daily expenditure is EUR 70, while the total cost is EUR 542. For example, in Spain, the amount is twice as high and reaches 1.072 euros. What's the solution? We have said this too many times, the reforms. It's heard you have allergies to them, and I'll agree. Both the IMF and the Europeans, the first thing they ask you to do is not extra taxation, are reforms. This needs to be learned and heard by the whole world, i.e. cuts in your waste and inefficient state. Reforms are a one-way road. We are always making our proposals. I will not remind you of them, I will testify to you. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above proposals, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the subject of the country's lending, our parliamentary representative will be mentioned. In conclusion, I will say again that what we need is reforms, hard work and, above all, a change of attitude, both politically and economically. Really, what I've told you so far are things you don't know? Things are simple and there's no choice. Once Athenian legislator Solon, one of the seven wise men of ancient Greece, told us that prominently placed in Athenian society and its political life will have those who produce more, those who pay more taxes. This was the beginning of democracy that later led to the Golden Century of Pericles. Look at our dismay today. We regard taxpayers as easy victims and pursue them as social waste. Where have we given priority? Our party friends and those who vote for us. Let them not be qualified, let them not offer any work, provided we are voted on and perpetuated to power. We therefore call for a change of attitude, ladies and gentlemen, that is, reforms and a shift in the country's productive powers. These will cause Greece to follow the pace of the Western world, because it has never been the introvert of totalitarianism in our DNA. With extroversion, productivity and knowledge, with maturity and democratic mood, we can hope for better days. We are voting against this budget and we will place ourselves on the articles in the relevant vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u89	We thank the rapporteur-general of the Centroon Union, Mr Mario Georgiadis. We shall now proceed to the list of special rapporteurs. The first is Mr Dimitrios Mardas from SYRIZA, a special rapporteur, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the section that I will present to you refers to international economic relations and a second part I shall refer to national economic issues, giving some answers. According to the recent forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, the development of international trade will not be as spectacular as it was planned last year. It will be of the order of 2.6% for 2016, while last year, anticipated an increase of 4.1%. Note: The deviation is due to two predictions that were very close to each other. Similar unfavourable forecasts are made by the International Monetary Fund for almost all industrial countries, except the euro area, where the forecasts admittedly coincide. Thus, for the United States of America, GDP growth will be positive, but on a downward path. Here we have a new policy for President Trump, which, according to what he says, would increase the double deficit in the economy, namely the current trade deficit and the state budget. They are elements which can cause some growth in interest rates, which can lead to the repatriation of the US dollars, which will affect global development, particularly those of developing countries. President Trump does not know what he will do to TTIP and we do not know whether he will take unilateral actions to protect the American economy. In this case, unilateral acts can cause trade war, with consequences which are difficult to assess, since, for thirty-five years, everything has been solved by means of consultation, within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and then the World Trade Organisation. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, GDP remains positive, but at a downward rate, according to forecasts both last year and this year. Here Brexit has raised a very big issue on an issue that we have not noticed, and some time, of course, it is considered that the debate will come again to the European Union. The referendum in the United Kingdom was provoked for one single reason. It was caused by issues relating to the free movement of persons within the European Union, and the European Union agreed to violate a fundamental principle of the United Kingdom's residence in the European Union. This is something that has not been closed and we will see how the European Union will be dealing with later. As I said before, the European Union does not have adverse developments, particularly the Eurozone. There will be an increase in GDP of 1.7%. It was 1.6% last year, so we're about the same. Both the European Central Bank and the European Commission have introduced a set of policy measures aimed at improving the environment in the European Union. As far as developing countries are concerned, there is still a positive growth rate, a strong positive one we can say. Of course, we will see what the impact of Trump policy will be on this whole development. Here too, the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund are different last year and this year. Last year there was an increase in GDP of 5.1%, and now there is an increase of 4.5%. China remains at the wheel of growth with growth rates of more than 6%, but on a downward path. Of course, we also have Turkey, which is reasonable for it to affect us. As far as economic developments are concerned, the situation is not as planned. Although a recession is not predicted, the rate of GDP growth will follow a positive path, but worse than what was foreseen. It should be noted that in Turkey there are currently two million undeclared properties, and two years ago there were one million undeclared fixed assets. There is therefore a potential real estate bubble. The Turkish pound in a month lost a large percentage of its value. Since October 1 dollar was equal to £3.10, in November 1 dollar was found to be £3.40. Its trade deficit reaches 60 billion dollars, when in 1996, in the first year of the cash union, this deficit was only $5 billion. This is the situation in the neighbouring country. As far as oil is concerned, after a very large variation in its price, it seems that its price will be stabilised at around $50, which is considered satisfactory, both for the countries they consume and for the countries they produce. Let us note that several months ago the price of the oil barrel had reached 38 dollars the barrel, which was a reminder during the Iranian Revolution. That's how the barrel/dollar was then. Of course, oil barrel price so low clearly favours the well-being of industrial nations and oil-consuming states. On the other hand, as we all know, low prices are causing great problems in the oil-producing countries. These problems cannot be appreciated, if they continue, what socio-political developments they can cause and what explosions socially can cause. Therefore, as has often been called 'fair' oil price must be sought both from the oil-consuming countries and from the oil-producing countries. I come to the answers I have to give for some things that have been heard and related to developments in the Greek economy. My colleagues have already mentioned some of them. So there's no reason for me to repeat some things. The other special rapporteurs will provide more information on the Greek economy and the budget. What I have to say in the position that has been heard that the New Democracy would only have a burden of EUR 3 billion, regardless of the mail Hardouvelis, which means that the New Democracy indirectly implys that it would not have a memorandum, is that there is a question that is worth some time to see. In 2015 we returned 16.1 billion to an International Monetary Fund, to a European Investment Bank and to international creditors. How would this amount be covered by the New Democracy? Would he go out on the markets at 4.5% and 5% interest? Of course, one can say: we thought the success story would bring us much better results, so we could go out on the markets at a rate even below 4%. The answer is that the entire political behaviour of the New Democracy has shown that it did not believe in the 2014 success story. If she did, then she would implement another strategy, which would highlight the positive elements of the 2014 success story, and according to these positive elements, would, in her view, be swept away in the March 2015 elections, which was the period when the presidential elections had to take place, even prematurely, according to what we have proposed to the relevant committee of the Parliament. Therefore, 16.1 billion is something that is difficult to answer without a memorandum. Furthermore, if things were so simple, we would expect them to close all in October 2014 or at the latest in December 2014 and not to pull this whole process out until February 2015, which we do not know again whether this whole story would be closed. As far as investment is concerned and as to whether or not we are cutting them out, and whether the former regime was so friendly to foreign investment, what we have to say is as follows: we, for the first time, gathered as government the fourteen large investments, which were a year old and were not walking in that country. These investments we are trying to clear them out - case by case. There was an investment of 1,5 million dollars, which was submitted as a request in 2006 to New Democracy. The New Democracy has come and gone, the New Democracy has gone again and gone, and this investment after ten years has come to our hands to solve the problem of its licensing. And we have thirteen other registered investments, a process that was done for the first time in the country. There are other investments that have fled the country. I refer to the 'TESLA' and another investment, the 'PHARMAPLAST'. This is an Egyptian company, which, due to Egypt's crisis, wanted to leave Egypt and settle in Greece. He sent a letter to the Ministry of Industry, waited six months for an answer in 2013 and finally got no response. So this company has settled in Bulgaria and will soon produce its products there. Finally, with regard to fuel, which has been repeatedly pointed out that we are proposing - or I have proposed, since the matter is personified - that we would save EUR 1 billion from the smuggling of fuels, I would like to remind the Seminar that Mr Papademos as Minister at the time of the government had talked about smuggling of $ 2.5 billion. You had L.4177/2013, which quite simply provided for some decisions to be implemented. These decisions have never been adopted by the New Democracy. These decisions were made by us. These are self-evident decisions, such as a decision relating to free tanks. No one even knows today what the free tanks in the country are. And we wonder why the system of input-outs for tax warehouses has been foreseen and this system has not been provided for in the same law, the system of input-outs, for so-called free warehouses. Free warehouses are the tanks that are outside the refineries. Because while you predicted - quite rightly - the input-out system for petrol stations, why don't you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u91	For the ten thousand stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u92	I said that you were right to anticipate it, but of course with a great deal of delay. So why, after you have predicted the input-output system, did not come up with the decision to place the necessary systems on both tankers and the so-called'sleeps', which are the ones that carry fuel from land to ships? We did these things so we could lock up the system. And with regard to what has been heard, about the recent law, which has a reference to some GPS, which has been heard that we are getting out of tankers, I suppose some people have carefully read the law's provision and taken back what they have proposed. Because what was written by the law refers to a category of fuel, biofuels, which are premeasured. And in this case, says the law, companies may not put GPS in tankers. This is done in a category of fuel, which - I repeat - is premeasured before use. Therefore, what had to be done in fuels in application of Law 4177/2013 and did not happen then, we are now doing it and we are walking even further. I come a little to 'ERGANI' and what it has been heard. My dear colleague is gone, but the world is not lost. I'll be done with this. You know, Desraelli, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, had said a very nice saying. He said there are lies, cursed lies and statistics. Indeed, in October there was an increase in unemployment of seventy-five thousand, probably an unemployment of seventy-five thousand. Indeed. How many jobs does it create, though? From January to September, we had two hundred and thirty thousand jobs. On'success story' this amount was a hundred and ninety thousand job creation, with seventy thousand unemployed in the period of October, which you understand is the end of the summer season. So we don't question the seventy-five thousand, but when you say a number, give all the numbers so that we understand what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you for the special rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Mardas. The special rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Georgios Germenis, now has the floor. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u94	As we have already mentioned in the previous report on the draft state budget of 2017, this is a Utopian budget with objectives that are impotent, which are clearly contrary to all the forecasts, including close partners of the government, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, that is, the primary surplus, to reach 1.8% of GDP and to the rate of growth of the economy by 2.7% of GDP. This is a very interesting point to mention what the Parliamentary Budget Office appreciates, where in its report on the preliminary draft states that it is characterised by tax austerity and partly reflects the argument for restoring confidence in the Greek economy, while pointing out that analyses over a longer period of time should concern us. Especially for estimates of economic growth of the economy by 2.7%, it considers that forecasts for private consumption, investment and exports are too optimistic and that there are risks of realisation. At the same time, external analysts, such as the "CITYGROUP", consider that with the saving rate of Greek households remain deeply negative, around 6% of the available income, and with the ongoing capital controls limiting exports, it is unlikely that the Greek economy will enter strong growth rates. Finally, it should be noted that the 2017 budget is of a strong material nature in the short term and the pre-cyclical economic policy continues very strongly - tax increases and expenditure reductions in a recession environment - followed throughout the years of the crisis, thus making it difficult to achieve positive growth rates. In general, it is a budget which, while stressing at the outset, seeks to combine budgetary responsibility with social justice, excessive austerity and social injustice become its flag. As for the implementation of the Social Solidarity Programme, it is replaced by its inspirings themselves by the measures envisaged for indirect and direct overtaxation, while at the same time discourage labour and entrepreneurship from the supply side and thus weaken the recovery prospects. The final text of the budget confirmed the original draft submitted and is a reproach for the current government, as it aims to further impoverish the Greek people, with a storm of indirect and direct taxes and incomes from the sale of the assets of the Greek State against low prices. The total revenue side will amount to EUR 2,45 billion, although on a cash basis these interventions will increase the net revenue of the ordinary budget by EUR 2,271 billion compared with 2016 and will be made up to EUR 50,374. This is provided for by the reform of income tax, as regards the concession of corporate vehicles, the reform of taxation to collective investment undertakings, the imposition of a fee for subscribers to fixed telephony, the increase in excise duty on tobacco products - including electronic cigarette - the imposition of a coffee tax, the increased revenues due to the collection of the last instalment of ENPI 2016 in January and 2017 of around EUR 323 million - although this amount on a financial basis will be recorded in 2016 - the price from the sale of regional airports of EUR 1.234 million. In particular, we must note the following figures: Direct taxes are to be set at EUR 20,415 million, reduced by EUR 296 million, compared with 2016, but this is not true and we will explain why below. The income tax of natural persons, which is the one directly targeting the Greek average, is expected to increase by EUR 1,161 million compared with 2016 and to form EUR 9,172 million. The legal person income tax is projected to decrease by EUR 242 million and to reach EUR 3,236 million, but due to the increased rate of advance paid in 2016 rather than some State intervention in terms of increasing entrepreneurship. The property taxes are expected to reach 3,132m euros, with a 401m reduction compared to 2016, but not due to the relief of HPAI but because two instalments of HPAI in 2016 were collected in 2016, while only one instalment of 2017 will be collected. The direct taxes of the past financial years are expected to amount to EUR 1,291 million and the other direct taxes to EUR 2,333 million, reduced by 546 million compared with 2016, because the amount of the contributions of the public sector employees amounting to EUR 664 million, since 2017, will be the resources of the EFKA according to the new L.4387/2016. In other words, there will be an increase of EUR 118 million. So, as far as the part of direct taxes is concerned, we easily conclude that the sole objective of the Ministry of Finance is the immediate poverty of the Greek people by increasing its taxation with the ultimate purpose of confiscation of the property. The tax reductions, presented as achievements of today's governance, are nothing but taxes that have been made before last year. Indirect taxes are expected to reach 26,443m euros, increased by 1,335m euros compared with 2016. In particular, we must note the following figures: VAT revenue is projected to amount to EUR 15,476 million, increased by EUR 769 million. This is due to the application of the rate increase throughout the year, unlike in 2016, which has only been in force for the last six months and to the projected increase in the price of oil internationally. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Taxes will be set at EUR 9,547 million, increased by EUR 712 million, due to an increase in the excise duty on energy and tobacco products, coffee and fixed telephony subscribers. All these indirect taxes irreversibly hurt the real economy, collapse the purchasing and consumer power and lead with mathematical accuracy to the closure of businesses, the loss of other jobs and, ultimately, to the economic turbulence of the average Greek family. In addition, EUR 1,161 million from direct taxes and EUR 1,335 million from indirect taxes must be collected on the basis of the Greek Government's partners, namely the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, from Greek citizens for 2017, in the middle of false promises once again for a growth that will never come. There are also interventions, reductions in the pension of EUR 563.6 million, cuts in EUR 80.90 million for wage interventions and 88 million for defence cuts. In particular, there is provision for an increase in employers' contributions of EUR 1.37 billion and reductions in pensions for gentlemen, subsidiary and widows, which will amount to EUR 984 million, depending, of course, on the cut in CSR by EUR 431 million. There is also a 10.6 million euro reduction in family allowances, which will result from the introduction of the new income criteria. New supplementary pensions will be reduced by EUR 27 million from their new method of calculation, while for existing pensions a reduction of EUR 234 is foreseen in addition to the retroactive reductions that the EIB has been applying since June. Now we're going to the national defense. National defence and cutbacks, especially in cases of national crises, as is happening in our country at the moment with an increasing wave of illegal immigration and territorial demands from the "neighbourly" countries, are not in any way consistent, but in Greece, unfortunately, with governments of persuasive bodies of foreign loan sharks, everything is possible. Already for the period 2009-2016, the national defense has suffered a total reduction of more than 52%, according to official figures from the Ministry of Defence. There is a further reduction in the new budget and a worthwhile question from where, though the Ministry of Defence, through its inspired leadership, presides us through its 2017 report, which states that the following are proposed: Avoiding the creation of new structures, units of services that involve costs, gradual disposal of economic activities of military farms and the service of personnel of the Armed Forces to external bodies, reductions in seasonal staff recruitment, reduction of national positions in embassies and other international organisations - see NATO - containment of sponsored types of clothing and footwear to pupils in productive schools and hosts. As it seems, the natural occupation of our country also follows, since their aim is to mitigate the operational armed forces, to grant financial resources to individuals regardless of their national origin and their aim of dealing with the Armed Forces, to strip the pupils of productive schools and soldiers, and to disappear from the neo-Algerian decision-makers such as NATO, thus leaving space to our natural enemies to exploit our absence for their own benefit. Financial hardship and poverty or premeditated crime? We're going to health and hospitals. The budget also covers a number of measures to deal with health expenditure. Of course, it is noteworthy that while for EEAS it is noted that there is a divergence from the original design due to an increase in its obligations and the health coverage of uninsured citizens, and while the Agency’s revenues will be less than EUR 234 million in 2016 as a result of the reduced State grant of EUR 200 million, the Agency will present a surplus of EUR 333 million, of the largest achievements of the creative accounting work of SYRIZA’s financial staff at the end of 2017. At the same time, generalization of generic medicines across the range of health is required, with dubious results for the health course of all the Greeks in need of medical care and care. The budget submitted for 2017 is even characterised by the government itself and by the Parliament's Budget Office as a heavy-cost, materialist, with a strong desire for short-term results in terms of economic indicators and is the diligence of the need to serve the interests of the lenders and their partners, who have written this budget. It is essentially a account that has nothing to do with reality, but is aimed at the destruction of the proud Greek nation. It promises, of course, certain benefits - Social Income of Solidarity - but they will never be given to the extent to which they are referred to, because their resources are derived from the excessive taxation of their citizens where they are supposed to be paid. Achieving the objectives of surplus, growth and exit on the markets is not just a utopia based on errors of calculations, but a well-deserved plan for definitive enslavement of our country, as the failure to achieve them leads to the "cutter" that you voted on. It leads to the fourth memorandum that you have already begun to simmer and, ultimately, to the disappearance of our country from the map of the free developed countries. Your voices for growth and for the end of the memoranda are drowned in the economic impoverishment where you led the Greek worker, farmer, businessman, retired. They still sound bad in the ears of families who lost one of their own faces, the result of thousands of suicides, to which you have led people who have been proud who have not endured the loss of the labors of an entire life. Golden Dawn, a defender of the interests of the nation, cannot sign up to this monastery of creative accounting that stands only in numbers and goals, which will never be succeeded and which aims to further impoverish the Greeks, the degradation of the Armed Forces, the destruction of the health system and the creation of a state that will be subjected with great ease to the dreams of the world order of a multicolored, multiracial, with residents without national conscience and identity, who will work in modern goulag for a dish of food, servants in the mountains of the world loan carved. Golden Dawn will resist these eyes until the golden dawn of Hellenism and national freedom shines! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u95	Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of days is the Eurogroup's decision on debt, which, according to you, is particularly good, but not like the damn PSI. Listen, it's challenging to ask us to live, as long as it suits you, on Marmotta Day, where the pattern says that all the suffering in this place happened before you and all the good things happen after you. You're saying it's okay that we spilled the milk carda, but now we all have to be happy, because you got a glass of milk back. I am not going to enter this debate, not at least the way the government tries to present things. This is because I am consciously trying to avoid superficial discussions, whether they concern yesterday or the day before. But there is a way, if you want, to have a real debate, if you really want the Greek people to know and learn the truth about how we got here, to finish with the myths that some deliberately cultivate to blur water, to have real clearance and liability. If you want all this, you can only sign up to the proposal put forward by Members of the Democratic Alliance for a committee of inquiry into the economy from the entry of the country into EMU. Then we're really gonna make a real fund, all of us. Then the political system will take a decisive step towards recovering its lost credibility. Then we can say clearly and clearly that we are not all the same. Then the debate on yesterday, today, will get substance and some may have to apologize for the damage they have done, perhaps others will apologise for the way they have been dealt with. Then we'll know for sure what went wrong, what happened, what mistakes were made and how we got here. And of course, as long as you do not explain to the Greek people why you do not want this committee of inquiry to be the only debate that has value and helps the country to go forward is the debate on the future. Mr Juliarakis in the Committee on Economic Affairs has likened the drafting of the budget to an extremely difficult exercise, an exercise with constant dilemma in which we need to achieve many objectives with a single instrument: the surplus resulting, if any, from expenditure and revenue. Like an acrobat's equilibrium exercise, I would say, who is trying to stand up on a tense rope, knowing that in every step he has to be measured and very careful. The Minister's right. But he doesn't tell the whole truth. If the government really wants to tell the whole truth to the Greek people, it must explain why the country is still relaying on a stretched rope, explain why it forced society to become a modern Sisyphus and loaded back burdens that it had done with effort and sacrifices to fly from its backs, explain why we returned to a recession in 2015 and 2016. Why does the government cut down the NRA and the pensions after receiving an economy without deficits? Why did the Greek state lose revenues of 6 billion from Greek bonds? Why is the country not already in the quantitative relaxation programme, in which it had ensured its participation since 2014 with the preventive support line of 11 billion? Why did households and businesses suddenly find themselves with the Capital Control Night? Why does SYRIZA and ANEL continue to slander the PSI with which the country has reduced its debt by EUR 138 billion, when they are supposed to have fought similarly in Brussels these days? A battle that could have very important results for the country if it had been given on a national line, as demanded by our patriotic duty, a national line and understanding for which the Democratic Reconciliation and the Gennamata Fotage have been fighting for a long time. Unfortunately, however, it seems that in the political system there are not seven years of memorialization to overcome their childhood diseases. Because of the famous e-mail Hardouvelis with measures of 1 billion. We have reached the third memorandum with measures of 12.5 billion and concession of the entire public property to the lenders for a hundred years, and today we are probably faced with a fourth memorandum. Why public debts and obligations to third parties from 3.7 billion in 2014 reached 7.6 billion in 2015 and September 2016 are at EUR 6.2 billion. Why are you celebrating a 2% surplus that will come if it comes as a result of exhaustive taxation and not as a result of growth? Why instead of a fair burden-sharing of the additional 2.5 billion which the 94% budget is taxes and just 6% of expenditure cuts? Why, after all, you have brought in a budget that divides poverty by taking money from the poor to give it to the even poorest. And, of course, you must ultimately explain how the State will be able to perform its role with its limited resources. And here's a lot of questions. The 2017 budget is the worst in recent years for self-government. The reduction in total revenue is estimated at 10%, taking account among others of the government's refusal to deliver the new generation now withheld. And of course, as I have said in committee, no reason for the effectiveness of expenditure, which is the great concern, that is to say, if the money paid by the citizens are going to get a place. I know all these answers are difficult. It is painful to admit that you are asking citizens to come back two years just to pay the price of your ego. It's hard to admit that power games with ANELs do not lead anywhere. It is perhaps insufferable to admit that every failure of yours brings the government closer to the neoliberal concept of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much the government chooses to hide behind the figures so that it does not have a real debate, we will insist that the political system goes beyond it. It is time to build a national line that will allow the country to recover. And a large part of the real debate we have to have is about how this country will produce wealth at last. I have before me a table of ELSTAT with the percentage share of GDP per sector of economic activity, how much each sector contributes to the collective wealth produced by the country. In 2015, we had a GDP close to EUR 175 billion, to which the creation of about 100 branches of economic activity, from the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors, contributed. If we add the percentages of all the primary sector codes to the other codes that contain the word 'production', we will find it difficult to exceed 8%. From this figure about half, therefore, it comes from our farmers, farmers and fishermen. Does that satisfy us? Does a country like our country, whose land produces everything and in excellent quality, satisfy us to take from the production process of creating its GDP only 4%? The answer is obvious. So the first thing the government should do is to see how the country's GDP is composed as a whole by industry and by geographical area. Let us, for example, take the primary sector. We must immediately see what the problems and prospects of the Greek farmer are, what the needs of the internal and external market are, how we will encourage synergies between producers in order to achieve a better price in their products, how we will contribute to the interconnection of the primary sector with tourism and local family-run focusing, how we will ultimately turn the trouble and sweat of rural residents into a functional productive chain, which will increase the wealth of the country, the income of the citizen, the revenues for the state. What did the government do? After it first burned the cooperative development paper, with a law that considers that the cooperatives are something like decentralised structures of the Ministry of Rural Development, comes the Ministry of Labour and triples contributions to the OGA and then comes the Ministry of Finance and rains taxes: Increases the tax on agricultural income, increase the advance payment of tax, tax on agricultural aid, abolishing the refund of excise duty on oil, excise duty on wine, increase in the price of the agricultural stream, abolishing the reduced VAT on the islands. It is one of the cases where one can say that the universe actually conspired, unfortunately, but in a completely wrong direction. You remind me business executives with heavy titles and postgraduate and zealous biosexuals, which, when they are not numbered, after their great analysis, propose redundancies, as if that is not what anyone could do, even if they have never run a business. It is therefore a question of changing the data of the equation, increasing production and getting the money from where we are missing and not targeting every time in professional sectors to pay the broken ones. This is a difficult job, however, which you either cannot or do not want to do. The same picture prevails in other sectors of the economy. Since I do not have much time at my disposal, I would just like to remind you that a company, a freelance professional, can even pay 60% of its revenues to the public if you take into account the taxes on income, tax advances, trade tax, solidarity tax and insurance contributions. I therefore believe that with this economic environment, with this taxation on households and businesses and with the current levels of wages and unemployment, it is impossible to achieve the objective you have set for growth. I close with the privatizations, a possible income, which every government is seeking to cause growth. If there is a chance that you will disprove us and catch the goal of developing 2.7% in 2017, it is to achieve the impossibles in the privatizations. And here, of course, problems began with the good morning. Of the 2 billion revenues you have budgeted for 2017, already after the fiasco at the DESFA, you need to remove 188 million. Furthermore, judging by your things in this area, we should probably keep a very small basket in total. I would just remind you that 51% of the shares in the PPA were sold for 280 million, when the overall agreement on the port of Limassol, a port of much smaller capacity than Piraeus, reached EUR 2 billion and, for twenty-five years and not thirty-six years of concession, as was done with Piraeus. I would also like to remind you that the Prime Minister himself seems to have said at a meeting, which took place recently in Thessaloniki on the port, that the government's interest is focused on investment and not on the price level, because it goes to the black hole in the debt. That's what he said. If that is the case, then the "holes" of the budget will continue to grow, the goals will go for a walk and the ghost of the "cutter" will become increasingly threatening. Under these circumstances, it goes without saying that the Democratic Reconciliation is voting against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios Bardalis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating shows the government's consistency - I would say - with its determination to implement everything that is provided for in the Memorandums. It has nothing to do with this, but it has nothing to do with it. Its objective is clear: to create conditions for investment, to address the problem of state debt, to achieve the objective of budgetary discipline. To create, in other words, all those conditions in order to ensure an increase in the profit rate of business groups. Only that means permanent popular sacrifices described in the European Semester, but also for our country in particular in the third Memorandum. At the same time, however, it is also a need to ensure the strategic choice of our country's urban order for Greece's participation in the European Union and in the Eurozone. In these circumstances, in particular, it is also a prerequisite for access by the urban state to sources of cheaper funding. You call it development and celebrate the growth rate that it provides and the level of the primary surplus. You celebrate why you get your numbers out, why you get your goals, why you succeeded - as you say - in stabilising the economy in the third quarter of 2016, hiding that your primary surpluses are deficits of the people's family. The people's family, who sees its own budget not coming out, has no reason to celebrate with you. Any growth not only will not bring back the losses of the years of the capitalist economic crisis, on the contrary, take and take new measures to the detriment of workers, and the budget that you have tabled prescribes the escalation of the anti-grass attack. Why - for example - neither the SYRIZA programme nor the New Democracy programme is there a return to the losses of the last six years for workers and people? Is it random? Of course not. Whatever the outcome of the second assessment, it is certain that all the working relationships, such as minimum wage, collective redundancies, trade union action, will be further adapted to the needs of capital profitability. What is it here? That despite celebrating that we are going through a phase of development of the capitalist economy, overturns in labour prove in the best way, that the sacrifices of the workers will continue in the development phase. Besides, on your various trips abroad, of course, you embrace the various local entrepreneurs themselves, which ensure the profitability of business groups, of course, in your efforts to seek new investors. To the people, of course, you're selling for silk ribbons at the same time. Secondly, I want to stand. In front of us we have an anti-grass budget and a class budget. Why is he an anti-linguistic and classic? Because as all previous budgets take from the people and give them the big capital, so the 2017 budget incorporates anti-grass measures amounting to EUR 4 billion, mainly the take-off of tax fraud, of course, to the people and to the further dismantling of the state funds that concern, in particular, even basic social needs. While anti-grassroots measures will be brought to the state funds of EUR 1.41 billion, which is more than three times as much as the 2016 budget. These are measures, of course, which are not just for 2017 but also for the coming years. These are measures that have come to stay. Tax revenue is projected to increase by 2.3% and from 45.8 billion to 46.86 billion euros. New anti-grass taxes have been entering our lives since the new year. I remind you of taxes on fuel, telephones, cigarettes, coffee, etc. Direct taxes on employees and pensioners are expected to take off at 14.5%. Indirect taxes, i.e. VAT and other carpets, which are charged to people's consumption, are expected to increase by 5.6% and from 25.1 billion to 26.4 billion. All this proves in the best way, by whom does the budget get it. The classic budgetary orientation, however, also appears to be the result of the redistribution which it makes to the benefit of large capital. For example, state expenditure in support of the Public Investment Programme through the national strand is increased by EUR 250 million. There are new tax exemptions of EUR 20.4 million for companies to be incorporated into the new so-called development law. In a year where GDP is projected to increase by 2.7%, thus increasing the profits of business groups for the same year, then, in the same year, taxes on all kinds of legal persons, i.e. in business groups, will decrease in 2017 by 7% and from 3,49 billion in 2016 will go to 3,24 billion in 2017. There is, of course, also the money from the new ESRB, the Juncker package, which will again be given warm money to the business groups. That's where they'll end up. At the same time, the government continues to repeat, with courage I would say, its hollow words of fair burden-sharing. You are baptising "national success" short-term State debt relief measures. This relief, however, concerns capital, while the people will continue to bleed, not only from the measures in the third memorandum but also from new measures after 2018, to catch the "blooded" surpluses. After all, the measures for the second assessment are in front of us. The fact that this is the case, Mr Tsakalots also confirmed it in the Committee on Budgets' debate. He promised that after 2018, when the primary surpluses are reduced - if the debt is reduced - I read from the committee's minutes - 'the surplus will be used to reduce the cost of specific small and medium-sized enterprises'. What it costs to get a worker and what it costs to the employer to employ a worker. It goes on: 'Let us use it and commit ourselves to reducing the taxes on these layers and small and medium-sized enterprises'. That's why you negotiate hard. In order to spare money, to reduce the indirect costs of businesses and, of course, to reduce their tax relief. Third matter. The government claims to be socially sensitive, to treat extreme poverty. You tell us that it has given us compensation for the abolition of the CSCE, that it introduces the income of social solidarity and more for the treatment of extreme poverty and goes by saying. This is all another horror fraud. Let us give concrete examples, let us see why we support this. First example. Let's see what happened with the NSA. This year, the government cut off from the low pensioners of CSR EUR 165 million and paid them EUR 25 million in compensation, i.e. practically EUR 140 million. For 2017, there are cuts of EUR 586.3 million, while the so-called ‘compensatory’ amounts to only EUR 17 million. In other words, in this year, you will be grabbing 570 million euros from the poor pensioners. The second example. The total cost of the regular budget for the Ministry of Health is reduced by EUR 109 million, which is less than 2.4%. From 4,37 billion in 2016 they went to 4,26 billion in 2017. See the table on page 74. More specifically, the EEAS provides for a reduction in the State grant of EUR 200 million compared with 2016, a reduction of 38%. You do, because, as you say in the report, the economic sizes of the EEA have improved. But why have they improved? For those who do not remember, it is the increased health contributions that were imposed last year and increased from 4% to 6% the retention of main pensions, while for the first time they imposed the same retention on subsidiarys. This means, for 2017, that a further EUR 717 million will be deducted from the pensioners. It is precisely this looting that allows the government, to reduce state funding and to direct it, as you yourself say, to the business 'creativity'. Pharmaceutical expenditure is reduced by EUR 230 million. It's on page 111 in the corresponding table. For hospitals, funding remains at the same level as last year. For primary health care, the funding of units is reduced by EUR 7 million. This table is on page 112 for those who want to overthrow. Of all the above areas - namely EEAS, hospitals, primary health care, medicine - it seems clear that even health is linked to the profits and the financial strengths of the economy. This has the effect of establishing a situation where the people are increasingly putting their hands in their pockets to find their health. The third example. The government is trying to convince that its policy has a classic pretext, but in favour of the weak, and is provoking the expansion throughout the country of social solidarity income. What's the government doing here? When you passed the reinsurance law, Mr. 4387, the General Accounting Office of the State then provided for new measures amounting to EUR 916 million. Now the "Axe" with the 2017 budget is set to reach 1,644 billion euros, that is, they will be cut more than you predicted, when you passed the law, 700 million euros. These additional cuts are going to finance not only, but also social solidarity income. In addition to the income of social solidarity, you integrate the benefits of the 'humanist crisis' law, i.e. subsidies for feeding, renting, reconnecting electricity and others you give. This amount is EUR 272 million. You're also saying they won't cut off any more allowances. If you are not planning to cut allowances, then why in the budget on page 38, do you intend to establish a pilot new disability assessment programme? What do you need a new method like this if you are not going to cut down the benefits? As for the EUR 300 million that you say you will give health, education, social welfare, this is another fraud to the people. You present this amount in the explanatory memorandum itself as a provision for any emergencies, as if you covered the regular needs and now left you to meet the emergencies. These, if they are given, will not go to improve health and education services. You will give it to pay back earlier private debts. In addition, you will receive a EUR 180 million loan from the European Investment Bank on behalf of the Research and Innovation Foundation. To do what? He'll use them to fund innovative businesses. So again in the chapter you will give them - if you give them - these 300 million. After all this, you have a nerve to talk about social dividends, social sensitivity, social significance and more. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has, indeed, development potential. Only in the European Union and expecting private investment in this development when it comes will it benefit the people. Private people will invest for their profits. The chapter doesn't have a home. If he doesn't make profits, then he'll be looking for profits on another land in other places. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, I'll be done, Mr. President. The other opposition parties, despite any differences in the policy mix you are following, support the same development path, are proposing solutions to strengthen business groups, moving on the same path into the European Union and the Eurozone. Development to the benefit of the people can only exist against capital and its allies. This proposal is realistic today, in our view. Only that must be the case of the labour and more generally of the people's movement. The strengthening of the Communist Party of Greece will stimulate the reintegration of the movement into the struggles of the people. We know that you think this is overdue. Others still say there's nothing going on with the games. The only way, however, that there should be solutions to the benefit of the people, is for the people themselves to become a protagonist, to take power, to design the economy in order to satisfy their modern needs. Only on this basis can a single modern and free state system of health, welfare, education, be created, ensure industry-by-sector growth, exploiting the natural and productive wealth of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Mr. Katsikis has the floor. Mr Arvanitides made good use of time before. They're welcome. Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have stayed in this Chamber and those who are watching us - if you are watching us - on televisions from your homes, Minister, as I said during the budget debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the 2017 state budget is the second one presented by the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL and the first one that leaves a mark of optimism after many years and after the harsh austerity policies experienced by our country since the previous governments, that is, by 2010, with the well-known results. The budget is an essential illustration of our policy. It has positive messages and difficulties we have been asked to face and we will do so seriously and responsibly. Our strategy is to help the socially vulnerable and to tackle the humanitarian crisis as best as possible. After the last Eurogroup decision for the first time, debt reduction of 22% of gross national product is ensured, while interest rates are stabilised at a favourable level of 1.5%, especially during a period of uncertainty and forecasts of interest rates in the near future. The benefit of not increasing by 2% of the loanors at the interest rate for the old 11 billion loan, from the first memorandum, is estimated at about 2.2 billion euros. These two achievements are a huge success of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and another decisive step towards the exit of the Greek economy from the crisis. The government's attitude remained unstoppable, maintaining its jobs in employment, but also in response to the irrational requirements for maintaining primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 for another ten years. But the government did not retreat to these extreme demands of the International Monetary Fund for additional measures after the end of the programme. Even from the statements made by Mr Moskovis who said that we have managed to turn the page to the reforms, the success of the government's reform policy has come about over the past year and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget confirms the agreed objective of a primary surplus of 1.75% of gross national product and allows the minimum guaranteed income to be applied at national level, which ensures a real social protection network. The positive results of the last two years are due to the gradual restoration of economic stability, the visible improvement of tax compliance and the responsible management of public finances. The consistent implementation of the new support programme of the Greek economy together with the gradual relaxation of the restrictions on capital movements and progress in the areas of settlement of non-performing loans should lead to the restoration of the confidence of the Greek economy. A budget, ladies and gentlemen, is trying to achieve multiple objectives. Firstly, to maintain the budgetary balance. Secondly, to support economic activity. Thirdly, to increase the level of public investment, where the private economy cannot act. Fourthly, to redistribute available resources to protect social cohesion. Many objectives and many dilemmas. One of these is the allocation of budgetary resources between investments on the one hand and public consumption, i.e. wages, pensions, social protection on the other. In such a suffocating economic period, we should stress that EUR 272 million was supported by vulnerable social groups and households. The government has modified the scales in the solidarity levy so as not to pay low-paid and low-paid pensioners. Note that the Samara - Venizelou government had announced a 30% reduction in the solidarity levy, only if in 2014 it had a primary surplus of 1.5%. According to ELSTAT, however, in 2014, the primary surplus was only 0.4%, which did not result in a reduction in the solidarity contribution. So it is not wise of you, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to a reduction in taxes, and even to a EUR 4.2 billion, without explaining what costs you will cut. You did not study carefully, it seems, the budget. Otherwise you would see that primary operating expenditure for 2017 is less than EUR 6 billion. The savings of 4.2 billion from tax cuts mean to a large extent a reduction in wages, a reduction in pensions, redundancies of civil servants and a reduction in social protection. The evaluation of a budget is surely judged by the progress of the economy and the good management of the money of Greek taxpayers. I will note here that the 2016 budget, which has not been completed, is a success and is largely due to its prudent implementation. Limiting the recession to 0,2% of Gross National Product for 2015 makes it considerably smaller than the original forecasts, which is a negotiating weapon to lenders. The old system of intergovernment and oligarchy, the political forces which have established the PSI and the impairment of the reserves of the insurance funds by EUR 15 billion, those who have designed and voted for eleven horizontal cuts and interventions in main and supplementary pensions, are today continuing to cultivate a climate of fear and insecurity. They are themselves who assured that the debt is sustainable, accusing all of us of trying to weaken our debt. The very advertised'success story' of the government of Samara - Venizelos, that the Greek economy shrank and we were on the verge of exiting the program, was nothing but a false picture. The small recovery of growth rates in 2014 occurred due to the increase in private consumption, which in turn was caused by the partial inactivity of budgetary measures ahead of elections. If New Democracy and PASOK closed the fifth assessment, they would have to take measures of around 10 billion euros for only two years 2015-2016. Your own aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to return the bankrupt political system that you represent and seeks to return by implementing the most profound anti-social and neoliberal programme that has ever been designed for this country, namely a fourth memorandum. We'll let you know that you're in vain. The country will continue to fight, to recover and retreat, away from the parties that, with the policies that followed it, led to the destruction. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to focus on the fact that this year's budget is tabling a concrete plan for the exit of the crisis, the recovery of the economy and the full recovery of financial credibility, so that within the next year Greece will be able to regain itself on the markets. It restores the state, strengthens the social budget, saves resources from public waste and transfers them to the weak, so that inequality is shortened. We hope that the country in the coming months will be included in the programme of quantitative relaxation, which will, in essence, be working as an optional exit from the financial adjustment. SYRIZA - ANEL government will also implement this budget consistently and wisely to lead the Greek economy with steady steps to restart and recover it. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour of the 2017 budget, supporting the country's prospect of exit from the crisis in terms of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the 2017 budget comes to meet the needs of a country's economy, recovering from long-term deep recession. Financial consolidation and structural reforms have now begun to bear fruit and provide Greece with prospects of growth. Positively, the value of GDP from the second half of this year and overall positive for 2017 is estimated. Provided that the recovery of the economy is equivalent to the forecast of this budget at a rate of 2.7%, as estimated by domestic economic cycles, the Governor of the Bank of Greece and banking groups, as well as from recent factions of institutions and especially Commissioner for Economic Affairs of the European Union Pierre Moscovici, as well as the head of the European Central Bank Mario Draghi, who said that the Greek people have made great progress in recent months and it is very important that this progress should not be disturbed by adding that there are very good prospects for the successful completion of the second assessment. Even the usual presiding President of the Eurogroup, the Dutch Minister for Finance, Gerun Düsseblum, said, referring to the Greek-institutions agreement, that the juncture is positive for significant progress to be made, while indirectly comparing Germany's attitude, which insists on stumbling, saying "some people want to go quickly, some others have completely embedded the legs, I say we will take a step-by-step." However, let us go back to the budget and to the objectives it intends to achieve, slightly overcoming the simple reading and logic of the figures and detecting the substance and the axes it is eradicating. The 2017 budget therefore serves budgetary stability, economic growth and fair burden-sharing and debt-sharing. The first objective resulting from our obligation to comply with the institutions is to secure the objective of a first surplus of 1.75%, which seems realistic and feasible. Moreover, the slow but stable emerging economy and the development of the second semester of 2016, which confirms that the current course has been committed, since the Greek economy has passed on nine months January-September 2016 in a marginally positive figure of 0.1%, overcoming the forecasts of Greek and foreign economists and analysts who did not expect such a positive development. ELSTAT's recently announced revised figures showed that GDP growth for the first quarter of 2016 was not in the end 1.5% as it had been announced on November 14, but 1.8%, which is the best performance recorded since 2008, when the recession began. Our aim, of course, is to combine budgetary equilibrium with guaranteeing social justice. The requirement to ensure the well-being of the people's economically weakest and socially vulnerable layers is based on three pillars, which are adequately supported in the budget as follows. Firstly, to reduce poverty by supporting the income of households who really need it by applying the social income of solidarity and other measures, which have also been mentioned by previous colleagues. Secondly, social inclusion through the provision of social services with adequate and quantified funds to boost social protection and stimulate investment. Thirdly, reintegration into the labour market through the provision of targeted employment programmes and training opportunities for small and medium-sized, unemployed and other categories of vulnerable groups and young people. In particular, it refers to the budget, where, after finding the success of a positive surplus and exceeding the target of the primary surplus of 2016 by EUR 1,032 billion, it is stated that, as a result of exceeding the target, it will immediately be possible to allocate a single part of the excess to actions to enhance social cohesion and protection. I mentioned above the desired and feasible fiscal stability of the programme, which is only achieved by overtaxing small and medium-sized and other strata during the counter-population process. The answer given by the budget and our government is that we have established a fair and proportionate tax system. With the current return on tax mechanisms and instruments and the use of available tax tools, which have, of course, been managed for more than thirty years by the governments that have gone through, it is true that the small and medium-sized strata of professionals and scientists continue to be affected, even though they are gradually burdened. But these were the tax instruments available to you, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, you did not renew and supplied the necessary institutional, modern and effective arsenal and closed your eyes to the ever-enlarged tax evasion of a citizen's share of tax. That is why we are creating new, additional and efficient tools, such as the mandatory use of electronic transactions, the periphery, the tobacco law, so that the tax base can finally be expanded and the gradual reduction in rates returns, especially for poor and medium-sized strata. In the great portion of the Greek people, it has gained ground with the continental and super-positive and sometimes misinformation, propaganda, a theory of pessimism and pessimism for the possibility of economic growth to be sustainable and fair, since, of course, the programme does not come out. In all our fellow citizens, who have actually experienced painful and hard economic measures and have still not seen light, to those who receive one-sided and continuous brain washing, which is emanating from the vast majority of mass media and also the opposition parties, especially New Democracy, who have been sleeping and awakening with the anticipation of direct elections for almost two years, this cologne - we are answering: "Yes, we can hope for economic, social, cultural and political recovery in the country." Of course, things are difficult and the undertaking we have undertaken to take the people out of the crisis is difficult and painful. Solutions, however, cannot come magically from one day to the next, nor do we have some ready-made items, recipes and prepared or tested solutions and chips. We have sought decisively, with won battles on the inside to overthrow the old, worn and anti-grained governance system. We have made a tough negotiation with the lenders, and following the necessary compromises to stand up, we have agreed on a programme that can conditionally get us out of the crisis. The first step towards the successful outcome of the project begins with the second assessment and is expected to continue with the institutions' attitude to the positive decision on how and how much debt write-downs are to be achieved, which we have also seen in yesterday's Eurogroup. Is Greek debt a sustainable debt? It is when restructuring is carried out in such a way as to facilitate the payment of debt-sharing over time and at reduced rates, when we join the quantitative relaxation programme in the first quarter of 2017 and go out to the markets in 2018 and perhaps test in the first half of 2017, when we achieve positive growth rates in realistic, feasible and socially acceptable fiscal stability and, above all, when we succeed in achieving in Europe with the greatest possible cooperation and alliances. The latter now seems possible. It will require, however, on the part of our country, constant efforts to manage the crisis which, as it has proved, was not only Greek. This means that at the international juncture we will also exploit as a force for stability and the model of economic development we will reshape through creative reforms, sustainable and socially just development policy that goes beyond the failed model of economic austerity and the accumulation of capital in the countries of Central Europe, with a axis of Germany, trying to impose the reactionary choices of the most extreme neoliberal policy. Our choices are already accepted by wider Eurozone countries and institutions. Just days ago the Governor of the European Central Bank Mario Draghi said a permanent solution to the problem of the sustainability of the Greek debt is in Europe's interest as a whole, so not only in Greece's interest. I do not need to mention the examples of Portugal and other countries where similar movements have been developed to challenge the policy of tight economic austerity. In this controversy, the anti-population forces must clarify and take an open stand. Do they believe that debt is viable with surpluses of 3.5% for 2019-2020 and will be collated into the national effort to limit them? Because I want to believe that you have reviewed the unlikely'success story' and the destructive surpluses of 4.5%. Will they continue to call for the stubborn closure of the evaluation, obeying and accepting any anti-social, non-viable and ultimately counterproductive measures proposed by Europe's and the International Monetary Fund's extremes? Are they going to stop acting as rating underminers? Will there be relief and supportive of the social and labour conquests of workers and best practices in the regulation of labour relations and contracts, regulated by the European acquis? In the saying of Mr Mitsotakis, will they call the battle to restore collective bargaining or believe them and come with us against these moves? We do not expect you, ladies and gentlemen, to respond positively to this year's budget. Do not, however, undermine the painful and painful struggle of the maximum majority of the Greek people for the sustainable and fair development of the country within the European Union of peoples, democracy and social solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u103	We are also grateful for the time management. Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget coincides with the government's triumphant statements on the Eurogroup's decision, which are not justified in any case, but also with Mr Tsipras' desperate effort to present a new account in the position of the account that the markets will be bored and danced. As far as Mr Tsipras's previous account was concerned, the new account, which is what, ladies and gentlemen, is it? That the debt was reduced thanks to the tough negotiation made by your government. Whenever your government has made a tough negotiation, as you mean it, the result is new measures and a new memorandum and we are in front of this reality. Those of the government majority seeking a story to vote on the budget should do so. But prepare them for the moment of truth for the time being when they will be voting in the medium term, the new measures and the new substantial Memorandum of Understanding. What is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? Debt measures, short-term ones, have no direct and visible benefit. They apply to the beginning of 2040 and 2060 and since until then a deterioration in indicators will not have made them empty. More importantly, the debt measures do not result in a reduction in the nominal value of debt, nor in absolute figures or in percentages of GDP. What you slightly accepted the heart is the definitive abandonment of the implementation of the 2012 Eurogroup decision for additional parametric changes and immediate measures to reduce the nominal value of debt as soon as our country achieves a primary surplus. Wheat and alas if what you are doing is a successful negotiation, especially when it is accompanied by new measures that come, a lasting cut and a prediction of 3.5% surpluses after 2018, which can only arise with blood. From the application of the Maastricht Treaty to the present day, only Germany has been able to have a primary surplus of 3.5%, and that for only one year, Germany, which produces, has exports and is invested. That is true, ladies and gentlemen. The country has the misfortune at the most critical juncture to have a fatal government and a fatal Prime Minister, who is able to do and sign everything in order to stay in power for a few months. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is sinking every day and this is reflected in the budget you have brought, which will soon have to be reviewed with all that is coming and agreed, because it is simply not possible to implement this budget. It is a budget, based not on over-optimistic, but on unrealistic forecasts, a budget, which is not linked to any integrated development plan or rational financial management in particular in the field of revenue. The government predicts 2.7% growth for 2017. How will growth come? By imposing new taxes. This is a global originality in the field of economic science. The government expects an increase in private consumption of 1.8% when it imposes new tax burdens on broad-consumption goods and services when it imposes new taxes on VAT and on income tax. The Government expects an increase in private consumption when in the first year of its term of office, in 2015, the citizens' purchasing power decreased by 2 billion euros compared to 2014. And, of course, the data for 2016, which will come out in the first months of 2017, will confirm new losses and decreases in citizens' purchasing power. The government expects an increase in private investment by 9.1% in 2017. Obviously, he considers that everything he did with the IPCC is unconscious and investors will be running to prevent who first invests in the country, when no investor trusts this government that is hostile to entrepreneurship. The picture of revenue in the budget is absolutely fictitious. There was a delay and that's why you took new tax measures in 2016 to limit the size of the black hole. It is all you know to do, to constantly impose new taxes, when it is visible to all the fatigue that exists in society and in the real economy, to deplete the burden-sharing capacity of citizens. In September, overrun of VAT receipts was only EUR 318 million, despite the increases and the new charges you imposed, while in October the revenues fell further, to EUR 152 million. Even worse is the picture of excise duties. By June, that is, in the first half of the year, overrun of tax revenues was EUR 319 million, in September, that is, in the nine-month period, virtually zero, since it was only EUR 8 million. What does that mean? It means reducing consumption. It means that budget forecasts for increasing consumption by 1.8% in 2017 are out of reality. Ladies and gentlemen, on the majority side of the House, neither is it questioned that the 2017 budget contains new tax burdens of EUR 2.5 billion. So I must bring them back to truth and to reality. Most importantly, however, I must give a detailed account of the new tax burdens, so that all Greek citizens can hear them. We have, therefore, said that the new tax burdens are: EUR 716 million from the increase in the rates of taxation on income and the simultaneous reduction in tax which was one of your red lines and EUR 668.5 million from the increase and permanentization of the special solidarity levy for incomes of more than EUR 12 000. That is where the 'first time left' is placed at 12,000 euros. Since the increase in the VAT rate from 23% to 24% and the abolition of the reduced rates on the islands of EUR 218.4 million. They are the islands you have loaded the hot spots, destroying their tourism. Since the reform of the vehicle tax 12.5m euros. EUR 90 million from the increase in income tax in corporate cars. Since the increase in the excise duty on cigarettes and electronic cigarettes EUR 142 million, when tobacco smuggling is smuggling. Since the increase in excise duty on fuel and diesel heating 439.6m euros, when you have done nothing to limit the smuggling of fuel, despite the fact that you have found a top infrastructure, the input-output system in the stations. From the increase in taxation on investment vehicles EUR 19.3 million. Since imposing a fee on pay-TV 14.6 million euros. Since the increase in excise duty on beer of EUR 25.8 million. Since the levy on coffee 62 million euros. Since the fixed telephony charge of 54.2m euros. If you have courage and courage when you say there are no new tax burdens, add them. You will find new charges of EUR 2.5 billion. In all of this, add the most exterior insurance contributions calculated on the basis of income and now have a purely tax-suppressive character. Add the permanentisation and increase of the solidarity levy for annual incomes of over 12 000 euros. And in all of this, add the reduction in wages to the special payrolls of the doctors of the ESS and of the commissions as well as the reduction of the privileges and family benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your policy: taxes without end and without logic. In the budget, however, there is no provision for revenue resulting from the fight against tax evasion, because quite simply this government's priority has never been to combat tax evasion and to reduce public spending. The choice of this government is only taxes. Checks on fuel smuggling have collapsed. I have proved this to you with evidence in my speech in committee. You have received ready and installed in the system of inputs and outputs in the offices and a full legislative framework, and since then you have done absolutely nothing. For two years you haven't been able to bring the bill to extend the use of plastic money. It has been confirmed by evidence that you have made the fewer checks on the lists and the results obtained are due to the process and to the maturation of the checks initiated and progressed by the previous government. The members of the government majority use the candy that tax measures are distributed fairly and are not charged with low and medium-income incomes. Except this candy melts too fast. There is no greater lie than that, although Mr Tsipras' government is identical to the concept of lies and deception of citizens. What is the reality with data and figures, why has the era of aerialology passed? What does it mean to increase excise duty on heating oil? It means that a four - member family will be forced to warm up to pay nine minutes more. It means an annual charge of EUR 135. This is the social justice policy for the left-wing government. What does tax and insurance burdens mean for freelance professionals? It means that a free professional with an income 10,000 euros will have to pay for taxes and insurance contributions of 6 000 euros, 60% of his income. And that is social justice and rationality policy for the Left's Government. What does the tax reduction mean from EUR 9,545 to EUR 8,636? It means that employees and pensioners without children or with one or both protected children and with incomes of more than EUR 8,637 to EUR 9,545 will pay a tax from EUR 100 to EUR 200 a year, while not paying a single tax. May I remind you that you promised, among other things, an increase in the tax on 12,000 euros, that you had declared a red line for you to reduce duty? You are the ones who have reduced the tax, and you are the ones who will vote for its further reduction. Obviously these are measures that affect the rich. For you, the wealth threshold is found in the free professionals with an annual income of 10,000 euros, the pensioners of 800 euros, the wage earners of 700 euros, who will for the first time pay tax. Will the imposition of new tax burdens of EUR 439,6 million on fuel increase consumption or is it a measure of social justice? Isn't heating oil a kind of first need for an average Greek family, for low and middle incomes? Some people think they are in the era of the Thessaloniki program, at the time that they promised to abolish the memorials and increase by a law and an article. Be careful, because the new measures you will soon bring, you may bring them and vote with a law and an article, because history and reality are avenged. I heard one more lie, no pension reductions. What is the reduction of the EKRD by 431 million euros and its abolition from next year? What is the reductions in supplementary pensions by EUR 27 million and in the main EUR 86 million by EUR 86 million? The imposition of new tax burdens, other than that it plunges the economy, does not match the tax revenue sector? I shall refer to an increase in the excise duty on wine. We're still waiting for you to give us the evidence of the measure and you don't dare give it away. Do you want me to tell you what you have achieved and what are the results? You have succeeded in having insignificant results in both revenue and smuggling, since 65% of the wine is smuggled illegally. You have managed to hit a dynamicly growing productive sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this false and anti-developmental budget is the bridge that brings us to a fourth memorandum. Mr. Tsipras will be the Prime Minister who has brought two memos into the country in two years. It solved the banking system, because a banking system that finances the economy does not exist with the capital controls. He's poor in the middle class. The country needs a government with a plan to relaunch the economy, implement liberal policies, which, as the polls show, are now a major power in society. The country needs investment, growth, a targeted reduction in costs and a declining tax burden. The country needs a credible government and a trustworthy Prime Minister who will tell the truth to the citizens. The country needs elections, it needs political change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, it is very serious what we are discussing today, so as you can see the Chamber is full. It's very interesting. Of course, we have heard many stories from the start of this debate. We hear a number of speakers saying that for their days everything was beautiful and pomegranate, that another bad government came and made it worse. Regrettably, many of you, when you try your speech in the mirror, do not even listen to yourself. We're hearing about a primary surplus. Have you really analysed what 'primary' means? Where will the primary surplus arise when Greece becomes a country that produces absolutely nothing when you have become a service-providing country? I have heard some numbers before and your work has done so very well. You know very well that the Greek people who are watching from television are completely indifferent in terms of numbers, except for some very specific ones. We were told earlier by some speakers about two million and six hundred thousand pensioners. I will add the seven hundred thousand civil servants, I will add the over three million unemployed and another two million who do not have access to work because of the age, the minors, the ghosts, the students. There is a figure of about nine million, plus about four million illegal immigrants in this country. The last census had written us around ten and a half million. Tell me how it's done in a country, when it works "a and a half man", how will it be able to feed the rest of the fifteen? You realize everything you're telling us is bullshit. He is fed up with the Greek people listening to greatness, he is tired of listening to promises. You have become our homeland, after seven years of crisis, to owe more than before judgment. Really, do you have brains? Are you mocking us in this Chamber? Are you making a fool of the Greek people? Aren't you embarrassed? How are you going to get out of here and release? Today, in fact, we see how serious it is for you to discuss a budget, a budget that has never been real, no matter what the SYRIZA special speaker said before. You're always budgeting without counting. You're budgeting, destroying every social class. You're budgeting, destroying every professional. Tell me today which professional manages to pay his insurance contributions. Do you know that nine out of ten don't pay insurance contributions? They close business every day. Where do you see growth? You really don't have your God! You're a liar. You're hypocrites. But you match too many things. We have seen for the past two years, without the slightest margin of questioning that your Government and Civic Anti-Civilization unite the memorials and commands of the loan-creamers. Any alleged conflict of yours is simply for communication and only reasons, and is part of the deception of the Greek public. Following the above labelling, I would like to emphasise a little bit and stress that today's statement of the 2017 budget by the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence takes place after he, like the previous ones, has been approved by the lenders - loan sharks, who are the real rulers of this place. This alone is enough to destroy your co-government claim that the 2017 budget is developmental. It thanks you, of course, for benefiting your partners. But I think it is appropriate to inform you, or more precisely, that you have lost your last vote of confidence in the Greek people. You are not the government of the Greeks, you are the government of the international loan sharks. And each of you has a dual character, on the one hand, the total destruction of the Greek economy and, on the other, the blind submission to the demands of the international loan-creating capital. The deposit of this Memorandum of Understanding is a double defeat for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Firstly, because your Government has become a scam of the defeated, i.e. the former Memorandums of the New Democracy and the PASOK, who have enthusiastically welcomed you in the Memorandum Center. Secondly, because your Government deserves both contempt for those who believe you and who have regretted it today and those who knew the size of your vulgar left civilization and today experience what was, unfortunately, anticipated. But let us come to this. What is the budget you deposited as a government? Apart from fruitful hopes and numbers, which have absolutely no contradiction to the Greek economy, as I mentioned before, it is proof that all the forces of the abusively called "constitutional arch" have failed miserably. But why have they failed? They failed for two main reasons. Above all, because they made their main concern to serve the demands of lenders rather than the survival of the Greek people. And secondly, because the Greek problem can only be solved by a new force, undefiled and honest, and not by those powers which are responsible for the endless sufferings of our people and our country. Therefore, your objective - as before and the mismanagement of the New Democracy and PASOK - was not the solution to the problem - as you yourself are the problem - but the cultivation of the Greek people of the illusion of future economic development and of course the disappearance of the traces or the hoodling of the scandals that you have created for years. In fact, you had the courage to arrange the slogans of the Golden Dawn, such as the famous "the thieves in prison". However, their implementation also requires clear hands, such as those of the Golden Eggs, which you of course do not have. So I ask you: How many of the thieves were taken to prison? And I answer you, no one! So you either said fat-cut lies to deceive the Greek people or you're incapable of rendering social justice, because either you're the one with the thieves or you're also liars and thieves. To establish the raw reality, one has only to place in the position of politically forgiven Samaras and Venizelos the next politically forgiven Tsipras and Kammenos. They changed faces, but politics has remained stable and inappropriate and leads with mathematical accuracy to total destruction. You call that populism. However, the nationalist movement and the overwhelming majority of the Greek people call it realism. You populists are you because you are seeking to baptize as a development of the grubbing-up of every production activity in the country. And that, of course, is not what Golden Dawn says, but the Greek people see it every day and testify to economic indicators. We therefore have, and we say: Indicators of global competitiveness 2015-2016. According to the World Economic Forum, Greece ranks in the eighty-seventh position among a hundred forty states, with the footnote that the Greek economy is being assessed as the least competitive among the world's considered developed economies. What has the hard Memorandum Policy of 2010-2015 achieved? Levels of competitiveness for the Greek economy are slightly higher than states such as Laos, such as Namibia, Jamaica or Guinea. This is in terms of competitiveness. But what about private savings? City Group estimates that the saving rate of Greek households remains deeply negative. In fact, it is estimated at levels of -6%, opera means absolute weakness of saving by Greek households. Do we, however, have an optimistic message from the export sector? Unfortunately, no. Whatever there was as a dream has stopped in the capital control season. But let's go to the famous debt issue. Here, if an orgy of conscious deception of the Greek people has been set up! Your government celebrates the expectation of debt reduction by twenty percentage points, at the same time as the International Monetary Fund assumes that achieving primary surpluses of 3.5% is impossible. Those who today celebrate the Greek people hide the following: The sum of debt and interest paid by Greece from 1991 to 2009 amounts to 545.928.000,000 euros. This money was covered by new loans and not by surpluses which could be used by proper and nationally beneficial management to zero the debt. This could be done by channelling the loan for an increase in industrial production, with structural changes for an increase in agricultural and livestock production, while largely reducing the party hydrocephalus. Greece will have to pay for the period from 2013 to 2030 the amount of 340,884,000 euros. Of the above amount, 50% relates to interest. It is easy to see what a possible prolongation means and whether interest will increase. In view of the above, it is clear that there is no way that Greece will be able to cope with any of its obligations, however magically it could increase the Gross National Product. Interest slavery keeps the economy down, and the ultimate goal will be to exploit the wealthy production sources by exchanging debt and integrating cheap labour from countries in Asia and Africa. Already the notorious deletion of some of the debt through the PSI in 2012 - which the microbiologists paid mainly from the insurance funds, universities and hospitals - shows today the desperate situation of their sustainability, both in hospital care and pension provision. These are pensions which you are thinking of in the near future to reduce them by 30% by the next package of measures. So who's the populist? The Golden Dawn, which describes the raw reality, or the puppets of the international loan sharks, which impoverish the people, sell part of our country? And with a thousand monkeys you talk about growth. Considering all the above, therefore, your government's expectation of achieving the primary surplus can convince the partners that the third memorandum is progressing effectively, but in no way convinces the Greek people. You have, of course, based the most important part of your development fairy tale, which will come from the implementation of your memorial policy on Hillary Clinton's prevalence in the United States elections, which you would like to combine with Obama's visit. And because this was not achieved, yesterday's Eurogroup came to throw ash in the eyes of the Greeks with the nonsense of debt reduction until 2060. Strangely enough, not to say provocative, the President of the Greek Chamber of Economics does not share the optimism of your governance and the expectations of this budget. In fact, he said: The 2017 budget is a budget which will very difficultly catch its objectives, especially the one that is good for all of us, namely the growth of 2.7%. It supports this assumption in the significant increase in consumption, when a collection of EUR 2.5 billion from new taxes is requested at the same time. And it concludes: That is to say, it is chosen to increase taxation, especially indirect, which is now unfair and is being applied horizontally to all regardless of income, to ensure the primary surplus, but at the same time, it is being braked on any upward movement of the economy, while at the same time reducing its competitiveness. But who is the President of the Chamber of Economic Affairs, who will question the amazing results of your memorandum policy? But let us see what EUROSTAT is saying. According to EUROSTAT for 2015, 35.7% of the Greek people or 3.8 million of our compatriots are faced with the threat of poverty or social exclusion. These are elements not expected, such as the budget you have tabled, but unfortunately they reflect the true image of the Memorandum of Greece and the imprinting of the amazing results of your policy at an economic and social level. Imagine, in other words, that you did not have these amazing results too. Here, then, be the Greek people, the fruit of your sacrifices: The loan sharks are treasured thanks to their Greek partners and partners in all parties, but of course the Golden Dawn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And what do we stand for as Golden Dawn? The following: Real growth can come only through the increase in production and the influx of new money from export activities rather than through the continuous unjust overproduction of households and small businesses. The solution of the Greek problem requires immediate deletion of the illegal and burdensome debts paid by the Greek people. Unfortunately, the Memorandum Governments do not serve the interests of the country, but, as we have said, the international loan sharks. The Golden Dawn aims to directly control public debt and all loan contracts from 1974 until today. At the same time, we will be setting up specific audit teams that will make all ministries and public agencies records, which has never been done in Greece and which has never been done because it will come about and who has taken the misery and black money. First of all, however, it will formally arise which part of the debt is illegal and burdensome, which our state will of course also refuse to repay. Gentlemen of the Government took the power in 1915 to promise the Greek people that you will work for his interests. The Golden Dawn had warned of the dirty role of the parties that constitute the current government, namely SYRIZA and ANEL, and we were unfortunately reassured. No substantial difference exists between you, in New Democracy and PASOK, and as long as the weather goes on more and more Greeks will realize that the Greek people's only response to the loan sharks and their domestic submissives is a powerful Golden Dawn, because only the Golden Dawn can defend the interests and above all the dignity of Hellenism. In closing, I have to point out that every horror without the end, has a terrible end, comrades. What I learned from a young man was that the smartest being in the animal kingdom was man. What I had to be forty-eight years old to find out is that the most resistant being in the animal kingdom is the shredders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-06-S1-commons.u108	With the consent of the House at no time 0.17 the meeting for today, Wednesday, 7 December 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work: continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017", according to the agenda distributed.
