ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 3 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 149/31-10-2016 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the introduction of a legislative framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon all inclusive to tourism. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 143/26-10-2016 of the New Democracy MP Marios Salma to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning immediate and permanent measures for the flood protection of the Messology Sacred City. 3. The 145/26-10-2016 topical question by the Congressman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need for an immediate solution to the problem of waste management in Corfu. 4. The question by No. 148/31-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health on the completion of the procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff to hospitals in the country. 5. The Question No 150/31-10-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence on the living conditions at the refugee hospitality centre in Shhsto. 6. The question, under number 142/25-10-2016, of the need to remove or amend the texts referred to in paragraph 5 of Article 16 of the “Social and Solidarity Economy” Act, due to an excessive measure in the responsibility of ordinary members of a Social Partner (ZENS) for the obligations of the administrator or of the chairman of the Management Committee to the public and social security bodies. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 144/26-10-2016 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism regarding the declining of the tourist economy of Samos and the rest of the islands of the north-eastern Aegean due to government indifference. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 147/27-10-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the destruction of the property of the Greek people caused by illegal immigrants in Moya Mytilini, Chios and other Aegean islands. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on measures to combat the smuggling of fuel in service. 4. The 151/31-10-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the translations of students and students at the IOI and IOI of the country. 5. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. 6. The 88/12-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the Thessaloniki Potamio Mr. Catherine Markos to the Minister of Health, on the establishment of a child hospital in Thessaloniki. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 102/17-10-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on measures to protect the health of residents and the environment, then two environmental incidents in western Thessaloniki. 8. The question by No 100-14-10-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. 9. The question by No 97/14-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the completion of hydroelectric projects in the Messochora Trigalos. 10. The Question No 105/17-10-2016 by Congressman of Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister of Environment and Energy about the incomplete maintenance of the Root Distribution Network (DEDHE) in southern Evia. 11. The Question No 91/13-10-2016 by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). 12. Under the number 45/5-10-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalokkonos to the Minister of Health about the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Christos Katsotis and Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 25-10-2016, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Christos Katsotis' immunity should not be lifted. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 25-10-2016, according to which members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos' immunity should not be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member or to the prosecution, prosecution or harassment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the House shall also decide, by raising the hand or term, on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Christo Katsotis. The second case concerns Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is the second request a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting for the waiver of immunity notes his preference next to the Member's name and to the NAI column, that is, he says, "NEI" to the prosecution's request for the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'NOV' column respectively 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. The vote will take place on the list of Members, their own constituency and the parliamentary group, to which it belongs and will sign it, because the vote is roll-call in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver his vote to colleagues Mario Katsis from SYRIZA and George Georgios Georgios Georgios, from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. MEP Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u3	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 179 Members voted. On the case of Mr Christos Katsotis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 6 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 172 MPs. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 16a and 16b]] On the case of Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 24 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 152 MPs. They voted for 3 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-02-S1-commons.u7	With the agreement of the House at 13.24p., the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 3 November 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue", in accordance with the agenda distributed.
