ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by Secretary Mario Katsis, Member of the Thesprotia, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[TAKE PAGE 1a]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Ten questions will be discussed today. The first question will be discussed under number 289/13-12-2016 of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the use of the Olympic Sniper in Markopoulos Attica. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, George Vasiliadis. Mr. Darkdog, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u3	Minister, in 2008 the company “Olympic Real Estate” granted the Ministry of Interior the exclusive use of the “Markopoulou Olympic Shooting Center”, i.e. the building complex along with the surroundings, with a total area of three hundred and five acres, for a duration of thirty years. In particular, according to the contract, the existing buildings, which occupy 30 thousand square meters, will be installed by the Attica Police Operations Division, the Anti-terrorism Repressive Unit and the Explosive Mechanisms Division of the Attica Security Directorate. It was also planned to build a new building to house the Passports Department. The specific decision to grant this site excluded any other use, in particular the shooting sport. Following Anna Korakakis' huge success in the recent Olympic Games and the conquest of two Olympic medals, the state must emphasize and encourage the promotion of this sport. On the basis of the above, therefore, are the Ministers of Culture and Sport asked what the intentions of the relevant Ministry are, so that within the field of the Sniper, along with the services of the Greek Police, there is also a shooting coaching centre, so that the athletes of this sport are trained under the best possible conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Vasiliade, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u5	I feel that the fate of the Markopoulos Sniper follows the fate of all the Olympic facilities in 2004. There is no design and no prospect of joining the sports map of the country. As you rightly point out, since 2008 the facilities have been assigned to the Greek Police and there is, at the moment, basically, the Education Centre of the NSAMs and Special Units and some other functions of the Police, such as the Department of Explosive Mechanisms neutralization, etc. The equipment of some million euros, which is unused and in a state of non-preservation since September 2004, is also in the area. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, and whether we intend to use it for sport in itself, our own policy begins, first of all, with what the Federations and the Associations themselves want, so that they can function. There was no request at least now - we cannot know or care anymore, what happened in 2004, 2006 and 2008 - to relocate to Markopoulos. The federal request is to at least take the equipment and give it to the clubs. This in itself is a very large cost, which we are examining, because it is not just transport costs - which are quite expensive - it is also maintenance costs. Think of it as mechanisms that have rustled for twelve years. Of course, it was the last technology at that time, but we do not know what the situation is today. With this data and given that it has nothing to do with the General Secretariat of Sports and our Ministry with it, as it belonged to Olympic Real Estate and went to the EBRD, we consider it very difficult to make any change in the use of the Marcopoulou facility. However, if there is a request from the relevant federations, we could consider it. I think, however, that at the moment we should put weight on Vyron, where they have been installed again without any planning, with very great problems and with some misery in the installation area. We also need to see on this occasion of Olympic medals - which, of course, we are not only concerned about on the occasion of the medals with these sports - whether we can help to make use of and further help the state towards these clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, shooting is one of the first sports that was included in the first Olympic Games in modern times. He has brought several medals to our country, twelve numbers. Four are gold. The first three were in 1896 and a hundred and twenty years later we had the last gold. I mean, these facilities are a very important chapter. It is an estate of the Greek people, they have been made since their legacy. They have been made by that money that we now pay and we owe, in order to create the “register” and the reality of the 2004 Olympic Games. With all due respect for the work that the Greek police have to do there, I think that since we have such an organized situation, as far as this sport is concerned, we should not let it go lost or perhaps the property should be transferred elsewhere. Markopoulou's Olympic Sniper therefore meets the modern needs. It's accessible with the end of the Attica Road. Around the towns around, there are small towns, Markopoulos, the Municipality of Saronicos, Koropi, which have several infrastructures, so that it can function. I think that if the Federation and the athletes dwell there, that will also do good in sport, but it will contribute to the general development of the Mediterranean region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u8	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u9	In fact, since the federations are asking us to rethink this issue, we will obviously be in touch with the Ministry of Civil Protection, to see if it is possible to relocate, given that there is a field for the fighting units of the Greek Police. So, I don't know how safe it will be for those who want to fight or train there. In any case, however, it is something that we can obviously discuss and, obviously, it is what I said at the outset - it is part of the total instability of planning before the Olympic Games and after the Olympic Games. The entire property of the Greek people has been lost with everything that we've lived through. I will also tell you that today, even today, new judicial decisions are coming to us every month and we have to pay hundreds of thousands of euros for this big party, which, while it could be a development opportunity for the country, has become a great mess of the contractors and of the incapable, unfortunately, political leaderships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. We are now passing on to the questions which the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Alexander Haritsis, will answer. First of these will be discussed the fourth under number 294/13-12-2016 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the completion of the work of the Captain's School in Heraklion Crete. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Minister, in 2008 it was found that the Captainate, one of the most historic and spiritual buildings in the city of Heraklion, which is currently housed by the 1st High School, the 1st High School and the Esperino, needed static support. The project joined the previous NSRP and in 2010 work began, with many, of course, legal obstacles to its reinforcement and reconstruction. The first phase was completed in 2014. With the "KALIKARAT" and the transfer of school accommodation responsibilities to the municipalities, work has stopped. Since then, all governments, regions and municipalities have been counting on who has been responsible for the continuation and completion of the second phase. The building, however, remains a yapi. The students are teaching in a container, located on the edges of the Handaka Wall. The courses are under unacceptable conditions, and the safety of pupils and teachers is at risk. With the end of the previous NSRF, the project joined the new RCF of Crete 2014-2020 and while the promises were given and received, further obstacles and bureaucratic obstacles to the reopening of work appeared. In fact, as a Communist Party of Greece, we had occasionally tabled questions to the Ministers for Education, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and the Ministers said they were unresponsible for this matter. In the last month it was somewhat clear that the Ministry of Economy and Development has responsibility for it. The specific problem, which concerns not only the Captain's, but all the co-financed NSRF projects 2014-2020, is that the Ministry of Economy and Development has not given the mandate, the control lists, i.e. by written instructions to the managing authority of the region, despite its parallel oral and written reports to your Ministry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If that is the case, why don't you give this mandate today, since this will only allow for the pre-authorization of the tenders that the Municipality of Heraklion has already prepared and sent to the Management Authority of the Region of Crete. As long as this process is delayed on your part, the longer there will be a new additional delay in the tendering of works and, in particular, of works relating to popular needs, which have been suspended since the previous August, adopted Memorandum No 4412/2016 on public procurement, which provides, in addition to all others, for new tender documents. It is a question of why, after five months, these standards have not been issued. On the contrary, we have been watching in recent times that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is a priority for the fast track service of large-capital projects, such as the Greek, for example, in the name of 'fair growth' and the 'fair investment environment', as they have done before governments. Minister, we ask you: When will you, on the basis of the promises made by two Ministers, by Mr Papadimitriou and Mr Spirtz, here in the Chamber, recently, to take urgent steps to remove any obstacles to the tendering of the project? Or should I say this differently - and I should like to end, Madam President - since, as the co-legislators have said, there is no institutional involvement or embroidery, it was simply a matter of inconsistency between the two Ministries, because you have not yet given the mandate to the Management Authority of the Region, in order to allow the tender, to complete this competitive procedure of the project, to start work and to deliver this historic school to the students and teachers? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Synthraki, as far as the substance of the case is concerned, I would like to say frankly that you are right, in the sense that it is really unacceptable, as you say in your question, after so many years, after eight years, their students and teachers, of course, are invited to operate the school in these odd circumstances, in these very difficult circumstances. It is therefore imperative that the second phase of work begins as soon as possible so that the school can be completed and delivered as soon as possible. However, you will allow me to say the following to you, to clarify things a little, because I understand from your position that there may also be confusion in relation to management powers. You said yourself yourself that the project has joined the Crete Regional Operational Program in Crete, in the RAP of Crete. Therefore, the managing authority for this project is the managing authority of the region and not the services of our Ministry. But, of course, the Ministry - and you are right about that - has taken on specific responsibilities. I shall refer to these on the occasion of a recent statement by the Minister of Economy, Mr Papadimitriou, on a question that was asked by your colleague of the Democratic Association, Mr Kegeroglu, on the same subject a few days ago. It was therefore explained by the Minister of Economy that this project can be auctioned on condition that the tender documents have been adapted to the provisions of the new law, Law 4412/2016. The Act provides that until the adoption of the new tendering standards, tenders are made with the existing issues of previous legislation, adapted to the new legislation. In fact, especially for this transitional period, until the issue of the new issues, the competent Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts has posted on its website models to guide the managing authorities in the tender procedure using the standard issues. Even so, appropriate tender procedures have already been carried out, and important projects have been carried out in other regions of the country. You put this in your question, and Mr Papadimitriou said so. We are bound as a Ministry that our Ministry's competent service, the Special Institutional Support Office, the IDU will send to the managing authority of this specific project, which is the Management Authority of the Regional Operational Programme of Crete, a checklist to check the draft declaration for the adoption of a pre-approval. So I inform you that this checklist has been sent these days and indeed through procedures, as you can see, very difficult because we are at the end of the year and always the end of the year for the ESDP special services is a very difficult period with a lot of work to close the programmes. So this list has been sent, so the Management Authority of the ROP of Crete can immediately commence control of the draft declaration. What our ministry had to do has done. You will allow me to say that we are not only concerned with major projects. There are too many, hundreds of small and medium-sized projects with a very important social footprint, which are being implemented and completed this period by the end of 2016. We are therefore at the disposal of the Management Authority of the Region of Crete, since we also need to help to complete this very important work for the region of Heraklion and Crete in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Deputy Minister, we're right, and both the students and the parents and the teachers, but where will they find it? The history you mentioned, we all know. The parents, the teachers, the district, the municipality know. Everyone knows these procedures. Either you're not telling the truth or you're badly informed. Why am I saying that? Because just last Friday, at the meeting of the Crete Regional Council, in the presence of parents, teachers, students and my own, the district manager announced that the Secretary-General of your Ministry would send the order for approval by the night of last Friday. Until now nothing has been sent at all. So who's telling the truth? How about you? Or is the Region of Crete lying? The point is, mockery - frankly speaking to you - goes cloud. And we are interested in resolving the issue because it has so much troubled Heraklion's society. And they're mobilizing. They've been abducting from school and Friday was on the regional council, where they took the floor and protested. So since the state - be careful to see how difficult things have been - with the KALIKARATIS - and all the governments, of course, and then, your own - have unloaded powers to the municipalities, such as the school roof, after cutting the funds for the school roof and the anti-Semitism shielding of the schools, you have closed the cannon of the Public Investment Program. And I tell you that 216 million, based on the 2017 budget, are planned for municipalities from the Public Investment Programme. Because you say you're interested! With these 216 million to do what? Solve what? To solve the issue of the earthquake protection of public buildings and schools? Build schools? What are they going to do with this funding? Most importantly, you have abolished - the previous governments have abolished - to be honest, and you continue it too - the School Buildings Agency which had both the know-how and the staff and has undertaken, with very rapid procedures, the study, construction and delivery of school buildings. So your'sensitivity' does not seem to be too far from the'sensitivity' of the previous governments, which led to things there. These funds through the NSRF are not only precarious, since the money of the NSRF, like the other Community packages, goes to strengthen the competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups, but also the infrastructure projects that have to do with the very life of the working people, such as the school roof and the anti-Semitism, are considered to be ineligible and what is judged to be a heresy, while the major projects, as I said earlier, are, with a fast track, simplifying the procedures - as is provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding, which was passed in August, and we voted against, Law 4412 - have been blocked, while at the same time all bureaucratic and administrative procedures for business groups have been abolished. I'm reinstated, Mr. Deputy Minister. We want you to give us a clear and clear answer now. Will the orders go tomorrow morning to the managing authority of the region, or will a new smuggling go ahead? And I tell you, because you are also being exposed, the government is being exposed to the conscience of hundreds of families, parents, pupils and teachers. Here and now, then, you must give us a clear answer to solve the problem now. He can't wait another eight years. An earthquake in Heraklion is over. It's one of the most seismic areas. If you see two photos, one of the buildings in Aleppo and one of the buildings in Cape Verde, you'll ask yourself where the Cape Verde is, if it's in Greece or Aleppo, Syria. That's the situation. So give a solution here and now. In fact, however, to conclude, Madam President - and this is a constant position in our party - the school roof, like all projects, financing, construction, maintenance, static support, anti-Semitism protection of school units, must be the sole responsibility of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, what I said before was absolutely accurate. I will repeat this and confirm what has been transferred to you by the Secretary-General. Indeed, on Friday night this checklist was sent, which will be in the management authority tomorrow and typically so that there is no misinterpretation. There is no hindrance and no conspiracy against the work or management authority or any other. Tomorrow, it will be the managing authority, and typically, this checklist, so that the draft declaration can be immediately started. You will allow me one more comment and I will close with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u18	Now you're talking upright. You said more in your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u19	I think I can't be clearer than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u20	Come on, now. Do not interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u21	I repeat. It has been sent orally to proceed with the procedures, and tomorrow and will be formally received - no, it will have been sent, because it has already been sent - by the Management Authority of the FPI of Crete. Here we go. Tomorrow if that doesn't happen, you go out and deny me. But let me say, because you raised the issue of the Public Investment Programme - and here I think you were unfair, in relation to government policy - that for the first time in 2017, after a whole decade of gradual and continuous degradation and impairment of the national part of the Public Investment Programme, we are moving towards a very important, very brave increase in funds from the national part of the Public Investment Programme, from EUR 750 million to EUR 1 billion, precisely so that we can implement projects which are not eligible for the co-financed projects, such as the projects to which you are referring. We are talking about projects which have very important, if you like, social content, projects which are mainly implemented at local and regional level. We're not talking about plays with that money. This money, these funds will be given to the regions and municipalities so that they can implement projects such as what we are discussing today. So criticism is acceptable. But you will allow me to say that when we talk about a project that is facing these problems from 2008 until now, and we have completed our ministry's actions in a very short time, I think it is unfair to smack it. But, beyond that, because this is important, with regard to what we are doing from now on with projects which need to be implemented with these characteristics in the next period, we have made this important regulation. As you all know, the possibilities of the state budget are very limited. Nevertheless, we are increasing the national part of the Public Investment Programme in order to be able to implement projects which are very important for local communities, as is, of course, this particular school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Now we will discuss the fifth under number 146/27-10-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Economy and Development on measures to combat the smuggling of fuel in the stations. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Minister, I tabled this question when Mrs Jackie was still in the ministry and after a lot of postponements she arrives to discuss it today. It made sense twice in the conversation with Mrs. Jackie once with you. Why am I talking to Mrs. Jackie twice? I say this because I tabled it two or three months later, after having voted as a Democratic Integration, it voted for an amendment of its own on the fight against smuggling in fuels, an amendment which has increased the criminal offence very much. The State Secretary at that time with a strong dose of confidence had said that with this amendment that increases criminality there will be a shrinking of smuggling. I had bought her out and told her: Okay, to vote on it, but only the increase in desperation of any problem never solved. And not only no problem has solved, but many times governments are demobilising themselves by increasing expulsion, showing a so-called interest in matters. I told her: What are you going to do with the checks? What are you going to do with other measures relating to aspects of smuggling in fuels, land, time, inputs, outputs, quality? What are you gonna do? Alone, the increase in dignity gives you the floor here in the House, but in the field of act has no effect. The decades of experience show this in both Greece and elsewhere. Now, the challenge of a public debate with evidence that fuel smuggling increased in October, at the beginning of November, has caused my question. Mrs. Jackie's gone, now it's you. Please very much, Minister, because majority Members in the media are also talking about increasing public revenues from the fight against smuggling in fuel, tell us what you have done in this respect and what the results are. In my dentistry, I'll say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Haritsis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I'm on my way, saying that. The amendment to which you refer, Article 82 of Law 4413/2016, I believe that we agree that it has responded to an urgent need, that is to say, to the improvement of a system of implementing rules which were in place, but which were not at all satisfactory. In this context, we believe that neither the public interest nor the consumers were protected by the institutional framework at the time. So the institutional gaps that existed at that time and, of course, the real responsibility for the offences involved had to be punished, and not, as has been the case many times - you know it very well - the needy people who were fictitiously in charge of it, but the real perpetrators could escape the relevant prosecution procedure. Here you will allow me to say that in your argument I think there is a methodological error in the following sense: this provision does not only concern the strictness of the existing framework, but also lays down new provisions which extend the scope of sanctions for this type of offence. I am referring in particular to: 'The concept of operational exploitation is introduced precisely in order to identify the actual guilty parties to the offences in question'. Of course, sanctions are also stricter, but we are not confined to this alone. I will give you another example: For large variations in measurements, instead of removing the permit for this installation, as has been the case until then, a new licence for the next decade will be banned for the next decade anywhere in the territory, so that the phenomenon where the operator simply changed his seat and continued the same logic. Indeed, strict sanctions now to cover all, if you like, the chain is also provided for those who have been building problematic pumps from the outset. So it is not just a question of tightening up the existing regime, it is a matter of substantial changes in the logic of dealing with smuggling. Do you, however, have a question and I will answer that sincerely: is this reform sufficient, this provision to deal with the problem? Of course, this provision, in our view, as I imagine it is to you, since you have voted in favour of it, is important. But, of course, it's not enough. We agree that it is not enough. This is why the Ministry has been intensified in recent years in order to deal radically with the phenomenon of fuel smuggling. Within 2016, and especially in the recent period after a relevant circular, issued by the General Secretariat of Industry in view of even the winter season, traffic and distribution, i.e. heating oil, the checks have been systematically intensified and the percentage of reported infringements has increased. In addition to the audit procedure, however, the responsible department of the Secretariat-General for Industry is also strengthening all the departments involved in the audit process, and so all the audit authorities, for example by supporting and providing training to regional and economic police. Apart from these actions, however, and beyond controls, the main priority - and this is something which is also provided for by relevant legislative intervention, which has been carried out by the Ministry of Finance in recent years - is the creation of a common information system and an integrated system for monitoring the movement and disposal of fuels, because, of course, it is very important to control, but the question is how, after the audit, we are recording and making use of the data resulting from this control. Therefore, an Interministerial Committee has been set up and in early 2017 the steps will be announced for the timetable for the implementation of this important integrated information system. There is therefore an entire grid of interventions, which for us is very important beyond the issues that are dealt with by this provision. Of course, the provision is only in force a few months ago. We believe that it is too early to reach safe conclusions on the effectiveness and the need to strengthen it. We are, of course, open to proposals and will see in a reasonable time how we will proceed, if necessary, to new legislative interventions, so as to address the multiple and complex problems associated with the issue of fuel smuggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u26	You have responded rather to the second phase, Mr Haritsi. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u27	We note that there is a problem of coordination in the government. This can be seen on top issues such as what Mr Tsipras said about the allowance ('We do not need to ask anyone what we are going to do about over-excession'), and what Mr Tsakalotos said about the need to ask and agree or what the Prime Minister said about unemployment ('22.5% has fallen'), and what the Minister of Labour says is that over a hundred and twenty-five thousand jobs are paid for 100 euros a month, 4% of the economic working population. We are living up to these contradictions. But here too, Minister, it makes no sense, with the Ministry of Transport, for example, or with your own services, not to coordinate. I'll tell you why. I'm not saying that unjustly. First of all, I agree with you that Mrs Jackson's amendment has increased the criminal offence and has extended it. You're right. Yeah, I'm sure, expansion and growth of pointlessness. On this package of regulations introduced by the amendment I said that, if you do, you do not have results. And the rest of the act comes to give you the opportunity to conclude: Can I have results or can I have no results? For example, in quality: In quality, if you do not do an on-the-spot check, you cannot control what the fuel is that puts in his office or in his truck, in his tank, anyone or even in his manifold. However, on-the-spot checks - they inform us of the agency's trade unions - you do not. And the numbers that came out for 2016 are deafening less controls than in 2015 that you were government, which were less than in 2014. One of the prisoners. Second the prisoner. He says the Ministry of Transport - these morning I listened to TV by coincidence - his Secretary-General: 'Yes, we do not, because we do targeted checks and digitalised checks. We make them better." And by asking the relevant authorities again, they told me that the system in the General Secretariat of Information Systems for Influence - Output is not controlled. Because there has so far been no reaction from the point of view of the facts that are going. Because they go automatically. Once a tank is filled, the quantities are automatically sent as a message to the Secretariat-General for Information Systems. There's not even a reaction there either. ‘There is no’, he says, ‘to full operation the specific system’. The explanation they gave me - I did not retain it - technical and essential, but there are nonetheless these two-way relationships. Data shall be provided without them being provided for any processing. And yet, do you have as a ministry evidence or don't you have and go blindly? Why if you do not have, on the part of your Members at least, the claim that, in terms of fuel smuggling, public revenues have increased from control? Either you have information and you have to tell us whether they have actually increased or decreased, or you have no evidence, and there is no movement of not valid information from your Members, which does not honor them, but also from which they are not responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u28	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk very soon. First of all, in relation to the data, I think the data has been made public by the relevant Ministry of Finance. The relevant information has been provided. I don't need to say anything more about it. It is the Ministry of Finance which records the data in relation to the fines raised for the issues of smuggling. And I think you've seen the increase, which has been recorded, has been captured in these elements. In relation to controls, of course, controls have increased significantly in 2016 and have increased not only in a conventional way, but also with the use of hidden vehicles, which had not been done in 2015, so that the checks responded more to reality. And the relevant sanctions, which are provided for in the new institutional framework, have been imposed. But I think it is clear - from your speech and from what I have said before - that this issue requires integrated intervention. That is why I have spoken about the need to complete the initiatives provided for in the provision, such as the one I mentioned in my prototype, in relation to the integrated information system, which, on the one hand, enables this coordination between the services - which you mentioned - and on the other hand, records and monitors the entire system for the movement and disposal of fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. The last question to Mr Deputy Minister of Economy and Development will now be discussed, the ninth under number 277-9-12-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development on the integration of the second phase of the expansion of the district heating distribution network in Megalopolis Arcadia. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the second phase of the expansion of a district heating distribution network in Megalopolis Arcadia is of special interest. And I think that what is of interest to you and all of us is that the next time will begin the post-living period and this project will help the local area and environmentally - if you want my opinion - and economic and development, because there could also be actions covering unemployment and economic development issues, the closure of the many units, which will be done, as your Government has announced, and is within the framework of lignite plants across Greece and Arcadia. Within this framework - as you respond to your document - it joined the national PPC component (ASE075) in 2014 as an act of potential for the integration of an operational programme of the NSRP 2014-2020, with the aim of mature the project, provided that the competitive process is not completed before joining the 2020 operational programme. Unfortunately, in 2015 by decision of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - on the basis of what Mr Corcolis says, your Secretary-General - replied from the EDP. This was in 2015. In 2016 - I return to Mr Stathakis - in a document sent to me by Mr Mamaloukas - it was the same person who made accession to the first stage - that at this time there has been no differentiation in the current specialisation of the operational programme. I would ask you, Minister, if the 'Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development' programme is to include this project in this action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Constantinople, you refer to a project that was indeed part of the 2014 Public Investment Programme, as well as thousands of others. And I say thousands of others, because it should be clear to everyone - I too had to submit to the Minutes of the House the relevant information - that the programmes that we inherited in early 2015 had an overcompensation of EUR 6 billion. Specifically for this programme, which we are talking about today, we are talking about - the programme of the EMFF, namely infrastructure, transport and environment for the period 2014-2020 - before the implementation of the programme was even overcompensated, that is to say, in the programme without guaranteeing the relevant appropriations, which exceeded 260%. In other words, for 100 euros, the inclusions in the programme amounted to EUR 260. If this is considered serious planning for projects that really need to be implemented, I think everyone is drawing their conclusions. Now on the substance of the project, I agree with you that this is obviously a very important project, a project that needs to be carried out, because it is, of course, related to the change in the energy model, the energy mix of the country and the wider development prospects, but also to the good quality of life of the citizens of the Megalopolis and Arcadia area as a whole. Of course, this could not be done without a serious process of ripe work and, above all, finding the necessary resources in order to enable this work to be carried out. In particular, and because we are talking about the Operational Programme of the EMFF for the period 2014-2020, there is indeed provision for funding from this operational programme for implementing energy saving actions, through the Priority Axis 10 and the Thematic Objective 4, especially the Investment Priority 4g, which is to promote the use - high efficiency cogeneration of heat and electricity on the basis of demand for useful heat. The projects of the Region of Western Macedonia were included in this investment priority. And I'm talking about the plays in Kosani, Florina and Amyntheus. Of course, this work could have already been integrated, since there were no overcompensations, which I mentioned before. However, because this project is really very important and is a project that needs to be implemented by the co-financed programmes, it has been developed all the time before by our services, in cooperation with the municipal authority, to try to complete the procedures for the development of the project. The project is now at a very good level of maturation. In the next specialisation, which will take place in early 2017, there will be - on the basis of the hierarchy of more needs with a serious design - reallocation and available resources of the programme per priority investment. The answer, therefore, is that yes, we will be able to specialise and integrate the project into this operational programme, but with credits, so that the project can actually be implemented in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u35	Minister, what I will keep from you - because this is interesting today - is that you will proceed early in 2017 to join this programme. For me this is the important thing, that the development of the project is progressing. This is essentially the case with the accession to the ETUC. This is clearly stated - you are also saying what happened in the previous phase - that the competitive process will not be completed before it joins the Operational Programme. This means that it would not have any additives from the EIP. I forget that. I am staying in your commitment, and that is the most important thing. The important thing is that at the beginning of 2017, in the first few months, we will come back, that this project will mature, you will have grown it together with the Municipality of Megalopolis. So I am very pleased that this process is going on. I would like to point out, however, something because it is very important. I've seen the list of works in Kosani, Florina and Amyndeo, in the 4g action you said. I think you will make all the adjustments, as you have committed, and it will be possible for this programme, as we assume in March or mid-2017, to join the process. That's what I think matters to everyone, and I want to stay in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, I do not need to add anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you for the time economy, too. The second question under number 281/12-12-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, will now be discussed with the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the completion of the personalised assessments of ELGA to the God-inspired peoples of Elias. Mr. Javara's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Javarra, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in September, Elijah - and indeed, a region which is highly productivity in the primary sector - was irreparablely affected by very high and great competitiveness, infrastructures such as greenhouses, etc. And while we were all waiting, at last, for the time of personalisation of the damages to come, to date, unfortunately, nothing has happened. The big problem is that while the President of ELGA had said and promised that, by the end of November, the personalities of the damage will have ended, unfortunately, until today, nothing has happened, so that producers will be desperate and, above all, will not be able at the moment to continue any growing care of their property and everyone will be in this despair, and indeed, in the midst of economic crisis. You should definitely take an initiative and tell us how and when - in particular - this process will come to an end, beyond that, as you well know, this is linked to a involvement that has been made because of the trade union movement that exists on the part of the appreciators of the ELGA, who are reacting to a change in the institutional framework for their remuneration. Indeed, it should be stressed here that it is the farmers who have paid since the end of the assessment that they pay to the ELG. Here again, there is one question, which I think you should answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u41	Colleague, your question has two legs. There is no time for me to refer to both of them. I begin with the first thing about the damage actually suffered by the region. Only anyone who was able to see - and that is why I went to the area - was shocked by the picture of the huge disasters, let alone when it comes to an area that has organised and innovative agriculture, that is, in fact, the agricultural sector which we are all seeking, and you and us. We are making a great effort to assess the damage and to compensate producers as quickly as possible, of course, both equipment and all infrastructure. The necessary points have already been made. One thousand six hundred and ninety-four damages were made. The work of personalised assessments, despite the problems - which I will tell you in my dentistry - which has created us in the abstention of assessors, has been completed for most crops. In livestock, we have three hundred ovine and caprine animals, two thousand beehives and continue for potatoes and heteroculture, where their completion is expected soon to be completed. These findings will then be communicated and the payment of the compensation to the beneficiary producers will be followed. There is, of course, the following condition: these should be at least until the end of the year, because we have had such problems. However, we had damages in stables, we also had in warehouses, mainly - and it hurt us very much - in large greenhouse plants. I am thinking in particular of the greenhouse plants, because the other damages can be tackled through an RCF, by drawing up the dossier and after approval by the European Commission, where it is always adopted, is sufficient to submit them. But the damage to the greenhouse plants, because they are large, as you can imagine, we cannot deal with them, because the plaque is specific, about 15 million. And it is gratifying that we have measure 5.2 of the Rural Development Programme, which enables us - and that is where we will be heading for the greenhouse plants - to cover up to 100% of the recovery costs. It is a measure that, starting new time, we will be proclaiming. And we want to believe that it will actually help us in this direction. Of course, we had damage later. The area has been very badly affected this year. We had another eight hundred flood damage statements in October and November. And these are along the way. Approximately 50% has been estimated. We will continue and believe that by the end of 2017 at least the assessment will be completed. In my dentistry, I'll tell you about the esteemers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u43	Until 2017? Did it happen in 2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u44	Now we'll have holidays, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u45	No, he said until the end of 2017, that is to say in a year from now on we are talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u46	2016 is all holidays. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u47	Its completion will be by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u48	However, I do receive very useful and important information from your reply to begin with. The initiative you take in the direction of integrating in the specific programme you mentioned the 100% of infrastructure which is damaged by natural disasters and extreme weather conditions is something that will give way to the fact - I have said so on the occasion of other questions I have asked - that every year it seems that what this region brings together all the dynamics of natural disasters, the extreme phenomena, since this situation is now justified by climate change. After all, the same thing happened last year. We would, in fact, be more consistent with the behavioural data if we were to take the initiative to establish a fund for solidarity and recovery of this type of damage. It is damage caused by extreme phenomena. And just like the other phenomena of nature that cause harmful effects - such as earthquakes, floods, etc. - this type of damage should also be included in this specific cruising line in terms of their treatment. However, I think that, for the matters relating to the personalities of the damage, and in particular the payment of the compensation for those who are entitled to, you should at least get rid of all the margins offered to you, Minister, because the situation in the face of the economic crisis also creates suffocating living conditions for all producers. This is mainly the case - as you have rightly pointed out - because these are crops which have a proven and well-known value in terms of their competitiveness. These are products of Elijah's rural land exported. They have high loyalty and quality. So you realise that there is a risk of a growing season being lost if we are not all helping towards healing the damage caused by these natural disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u49	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u50	About 2017 I told you: The completion will take place at the end of January 2017 and the payments will reach the end of 2017, because procedures, findings are followed, they pass through OPECEPE, but mainly because this year was very difficult and on the basis of the budgets we have, they may reach by the end of 2017. You raised an issue concerning the impact of climate change. Indeed, at this point in time the European Commission is constantly discussing this issue. However, the procedures there are so slow that, while we have now come to the conclusion that the rural area is indeed having an impact on climate change, we still have to get to the possibility of covering these losses. We insist and put it all the time, and we believe that at some point we will get there. The second part concerns the assessment of losses by the assessors: I want to say that it was a geotechnical request and an increase in the number of days off the ground, which we did in July 2016. At the same time, we wanted to reintroduce the kilometre compensation to the one that existed before L.4336/2015, before the known third memorandum. We voted together. We believe that the request from these officials can be met, because it is not a provision, but a compensation and paid by the ELGA, a ELGA which currently operates exclusively in the logic of compensation. So he has his own budget and can cover the specific costs. However, the Ministry of Finance claims that it is a matter of general government and cannot be satisfied. What I want to convey to farmers - and they know it themselves - is that they are not going to lose a single euro from the compensation, which they are entitled to, and will in fact be paid for more. I can't say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate on the next topical question, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and four of their educational sessions from the 1st Xylokastro High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There are few Members today, because we have a parliamentary control procedure. The Members are asking the ministers on various issues of interest, so each Member is staying in the Chamber, asking in his turn, and the ministers are answering. So you can follow the procedure, see the Chamber, etc. Now, the eighth, with number 287/13-12-2016, will be discussed, with a timely second question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgiou Palliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the implementation of the programmes for bluetongue and bee-fever in Lesvos and the operation of the Veterinary Department. Mr. Pallie, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u52	Minister, Lesvos has been in bluetongue quarantine since 2009. Since then, seven years have passed, without coming out of surveillance, because the bluetongue surveillance programme, in substance, is not being implemented. As a result of the non-implementation of the programme, farmers are not able to sell their animals live for production and lead them to slaughter, so that they suffer a great financial damage, while the quarantine has established a network of illegal trade in animals and Greekisations. From quarantine, therefore, they gain merchants, veterinarians, transporters, slaughterhouse owners, to the detriment of farmers and the state. Also, the stockfarmers of the island denounce that the bee-fever resolution programme implemented by the Veterinary Department has not, despite the implementation of the relevant costs, resulted in many of which seem to relate to virtual actions. Finally, complaints and cross-checks from the "DENMARK" raise questions about movements of veterinarians to slaughterhouses, health checks during weekends and holidays, during which public fees are not collected, so they may conceal virtual slaughters and cases of illegal trafficking of animals and Greekisation. In particular, for the Lesvos Eresou slaughterhouse, the Sabbath massacres are not reported to ELOGAK for several years now. So, Minister, I ask you: are the programmes for the surveillance of bluetongue and the resolution of bee fever normally carried out by the Department of Veterinary Lesvos? Does the costs incurred in implementing actions correspond? Also, what measures will the Ministry take to remove the ovine and caprine quarantine from Lesvos. You also ask, if all the massacres at ELOGAK are declared by the Eresso slaughterhouse and if the additional health fees are paid from the slaughters of all Lesvos slaughterhouses on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays and if the transport of live animals, except for Lesvos, are made in accordance with the applicable legislation, the supervision of veterinarians, the issue of health certificates and the payment of corresponding public fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u54	Dear colleague, you have raised many issues. You're right about most of them. However, let us say that Lesvos after the epizootic disease of bluetongue, which took place in Greece in 2014, has joined the restricted zones and for serotype 4 as well as the entire State. It was, of course, integrated since 2009, as it was mentioned in the restricted zones, and for other virus serotypes identified in the past. Now, with regard to declassification in accordance with Regulation No 1266/2007 of the European Commission, in order to declassify an area from a restricted zone, for each virus serotype the Member State should provide the Committee with documentary evidence from the implementation of the monitoring and surveillance programmes. Secondly, to submit the historical epidemiological data on the monitoring and surveillance programmes implemented and their annual results for the last two years or three years. Therefore, for the free movement of bluetongue-sensitive animals from Lesvos to other areas, the exemption from the serotypes that have appeared in the past should be documented. At this stage we are now. We have contacted the relevant Committee on Health. The Council of Ministers met with the relevant Commissioner for Health, Mr Andrews, yesterday, and we are waiting for his reply. As regards animal slaughter, as you know, throughout the country, via an ARTEMIS electronic platform, all information on the production, import and marketing of meat is collected. The slaughterhouses are obliged to keep, to register electronically and on a daily basis the slaughter, including the country of origin of the slaughtered animal. I should like to stress - before I refer to the Ierissos Lesvos slaughterhouse, at the Mandamanou slaughterhouse - that the ban on operation has already come into effect today, because there have been shortcomings, which have been launched and the slaughterhouse has begun to function. As regards the Ierissos-Lesvos slaughterhouse, which operates under the name "John American Heritage Society" it has carried out from 1-1 2016 to 16/12/2016, i.e. essentially a year, the slaughter of four cattle, twenty-four thousand four hundred thirty sheep and one thousand six hundred sixty-eight goats in forty-nine days, and, as shown by the "ARTEMIS" electronic platform, massacres took place on weekends. For example, in November, December, dates 19, 26 and 27 November, 10 December, declared as weekends of slaughter. As far as the movement of animals is concerned, a specific regulation applies, Regulation 1 of 2005 and, of course, national legislation, which obliges there to be the necessary certificates, to have all these procedures which do not create any additional problems. As you can see, it is a matter of control, a check we are working on with the possibilities that we have and, of course, with the support of services of other ministries, to respond as far as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u56	Minister, after seven years of quarantine in Lesvos, as you can imagine, a peculiar economy has been created, in a Lesvos that livestock has now overrun the oil production, it is the main pillar of productive reconstruction in Lesvos and farmers are forced, with falling prices at all levels, by increasing milk production, by increasing herds so that their income does not shrink, to have high-cost phenomena for their production. As I understand it, if it is respected by the competent authority, the procedure is right and the samples are properly taken - although I must say here that for the islands it is limited and, in particular, the islands must be examined more flexible, adapted to the islands themselves, a procedure for the taking of samples - in accordance with the European directive - can, even limited, be considered to remove the quarantine. What do I mean? This is a procedure provided for in the Community rules and can be obtained by taking blood from animals which are to be exported and when it is found that they are not ill with bluetongue that they are authorised to export them. The export of live animals could also be permitted during the months, which are certain that mosquitoes, which are the hosts of the disease, are not circulated. In this sense, an intervention that the Ministry needs to think about and we need to find a solution is whether, even for limited months, this piece of support will be restored to producers of a particular breed of sheep, durable and seeker, who are forced to sell on 1 euro the weight of the productive animals in slaughterhouses for slaughter. And possibly cross-checked these animals are sold at a much higher price, with a loss of income for both the public and farmers in other areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u58	It is necessary, with the information we give the European Commission and show the implementation of the programme, to be precise and consistent. In particular, the European Commission is very strict. So what we want from farmers right now is in this process of vaccination and the witnesses we need to cooperate. For our part, we know that, especially for the island of Lesvos, sheep and goat farming is a very important parameter, along with tourism. So you saw it, too, and the local society saw it, the day before, with the floods and damage to livestock, there was an immediate response from the government, so that 1.7 million euros at the same time could be made available to all farmers, particularly mountainous areas, so that we could keep them up. So we will be able to complete the programme for bluetongue and the eradication of bucketing as best possible. In this process too, we believe that, with the constant discomfort to the European Commission, we will take the question of stopping the island from being quarantine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Now we are going to go through the questions that the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. First we will discuss the second question with number 282/12-12-2016 of the second question of the new Republic of Athens MP Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance on 'protecting citizens against fraud and disseminating false news by Artemis Sourras'. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, thank you. May I ask only Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiados or Spiros - Adoni Georgiadis. Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis bothers me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u61	It's very imperial. The agency's writing it, I'm just reading it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u62	For reasons of linguistic consistency and correctness, I have said so. Minister, this should normally be a matter of concern to Greek society only to laugh. A gentleman comes along and says "I told President Obama the space technology of God Apollo to travel his aircraft into the universe. He paid me $3 trillion and I put $600 billion into an account in favour of the Greek debt, which the Greeks will get when certain conditions are met." In any state in the world, the man who would claim these would have taken him to a psychiatrist to examine him. In Greece, however, where everyone can say what they want, not only is this gentleman released, but there was also a court, namely, the U'monomeric Chamber of Athens, who decided that he did prove that he had EUR 600 billion! Madam President, the EUR 600 billion is three times more than Greece's GDP. The world's richest man, Bill Gates, has 100 billion dollars. And we in Greece have a gentleman who claims to have EUR 600 billion and the court finds that it has proved to be! To figure out what's going on in our state. I'm going over the trial and going to yours, Minister. If our state does not act quickly, I assure you, we will all be co-responsible and perhaps the government, for the collective deception of citizens, for the loss of their money by a fraudster, but also for problems that will certainly arise in various cities with the outraged world. Mr Souras claims that someone with some euros - with 28 euros, if I remember correctly, they told me - could assign his debts to the tax office, to the IKA and to the banks and that Mr Fours should pay him out of the EUR 600 billion trust fund, which he has from President Obama and God Apollo. As long as we say this as a joke, however, Mr. Souras has opened offices in almost every city in Greece, he raises money from Greek citizens, he promises them he will pay the debts. Our despaired fellow citizens, obviously from naivety, go and give them their debts out of court and neglect their obligations, because they are once waiting for Mr. Soras to pay them. There are slow episodes in various cities and the Greek state is sitting and looking. I would like to ask, first of all, how much money is being collected by the tax office to any one of these offices, and what is Mr Solras having to pay for the money? Secondly, is there any of our fellow citizens, whose tax debts Mr. Soras has paid for it in IKA, or has someone actually had a debt and paid for it, or is it all fairy tales? Thirdly, what does the state intend to do with its audit services to protect thousands of our fellow citizens who are suffering from this fraud? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. The floor is held by the State Secretary for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u64	On the subject of your question, the Ministry of Justice has already answered a relevant report by MP Spiros Danellis. The Prosecutor of the Athens Primary Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office of the Prosecutors of Athens on Artemis Sourras was sent to the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office. The ABBB 2016/2035 criminal case against anyone responsible, who was charged on 9-9-2016 to a prosecutor for processing and 12-10-2016, was sent to the Economic Police Directorate for preliminary examination, where the results are expected. Also, on 23-9-2016 by the Police Department of Attica Airports, a report was sent to the Protocol of Athens on the case of "Greek Assembly - Artemis Sourras" for the debts of Greek citizens. ABMO2016/151 criminal case against anyone responsible, who, on 6-10-2016, was charged to a prosecutor for processing and on 7-10-2016, was sent to Pygmatodika Acharon for a preliminary examination and the results are expected. I submit the respective documents of the Ministry of Justice in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, the Public Revenue Assurance Office carried out a preliminary examination, in the context of an appeal, and the results were forwarded to the competent public prosecutors for further action and are therefore covered by the confidentiality of the criminal proceedings. The Ministry of Finance also sent to the DU a circular in which it provided guidance on how to handle the extrajudicial claims submitted by the debtors requesting the deletion of their debts by relying on the funds of Artemis Sourras, according to relevant documents from the Ministry of Finance Law Board. I think all the necessary steps have been taken. I am also tabling the official note on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, with just Greek, to hear from us, some fellow citizen goes outwards and says 'My debts will be paid by Mr. Souras', is there even one case in Greece, which has been paid back these debts from Mr. Souras's 600 billion debts? Say it so it can be heard. Because too many people trust Mr. Sorra, leave their debts unpaid, interest goes in and they will find themselves involved and destroyed and the state will be responsible if he has not reacted. Secondly, do you, as Ministry of Finance, have the knowledge that we have a Greek taxpayer who has deposited $600 billion in any form in any bank? Have you asked? Does Mr. Sauras have that $600 billion? I understand that he does not have them, but he must also tell the state that he does not have them, does the judge understand that he does not have them and does not have them again the same as the previous decision, where he found himself a judge who did indeed exist. Because if we do not manage as a state, Minister, to protect our fellow citizens from such an obscure fraud, uh, excuse me, but we are worthy of our destiny. So say: A fellow citizen of ours who has debts and who does the extrajudicial to the Greek state and says "Sourras will pay for it instead of me from 600 billion" is likely to be paid out of these 600 billion debts or make fun of them to protect him and understand him? That's what I want you to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u67	Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr Georgiadis, the officials responsible receive out-of-court statements as they are, but they inform the citizens that this does not relieve them of their tax obligations. This is also the document that I have already tabled in the Minutes, which you can get and post, if you like, and on your page. From there on, after what I mentioned in my prototype, it appears that all the planned actions have been taken by the two ministries. This case is at the stage of the proceedings, which is conducted without publicity, and therefore the results of the investigation so far, as well as the other information obtained from the material collected, are not communicated. Anything else would be an unauthorized interference in the work of justice. We wait for the results of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u69	Is he a crook or isn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u70	Do I know that? That's what justice will decide. I can't announce anything. Justice will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u71	Has the Treasury inspected the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u72	The Ministry of Finance has taken such actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u73	The Minister cannot now announce. You understand that, he's blocked. But we feel quiet that he's done everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u74	If we are discussing, Madam President, if it is a fraud, a man who says 600 billion dollars, there is no salvation, we are worthy of our destiny!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u75	If he had it at the bank, the banks would have fun right now. We enter the first with number 938/3-11-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the immediate adoption of the decision on subsidisation of heating oil for the period 2016-2017. I think it was published today, Mr. Kegeroglu. You have the floor, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u76	The Minister will tell us, but before I would like to hear what has been said. First of all, I have submitted to the Justice Department on 13 October a report, not a citizen, but a report from the Heraklion Bar Association. The answer I received from the Minister, Mr Paradigopoulos, is totally unacceptable. He says, "Whoever has evidence and so sees lawyers, take them to the D.A.". This is Mr. Paradise. I'm filing it in the Minutes. That's the answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you expect the Justice Department to investigate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u77	Prosecutors are investigating, Mr. Kegeroglu. The ministers don't come out in the provinces to investigate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u78	You think Apollo finally gave the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u79	The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice should indeed see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u80	What's the benefit of Mr. Paradise?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u81	Well, I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u82	Now, don't be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u83	This was for information and to be filed in the Minutes to see the Treasury if it considers that there is a matter. On the question of oil subsidies, let us say that it is a measure which really can support the weakest, so that there is a reduction in the family budget, in particular, in the costs of heating housing. The programme, of course, has been in place for many years. But I have to remind you, to make a comparison, that in 2014 the first amount had been deposited in the accounts. We've been delayed, Minister. You've been late, not personally, because you've been in charge lately. We're late this year. That's the one thing. The second is that, with the amount envisaged, not all those in need are supported. The third point I would like to make is that while there was a request to merge the third with the fourth zone, this was not possible. Of course, you have moved into the immediately preceding zone, so the highest amount and the corresponding amount of square and season - and that is positive - of mountainous municipalities. But the mountain towns, according to the n. 3852, they are designated as administrative. What I would like to point out to you is that there are former Kapodistrian municipalities, which have not been classified as mountainous, while having higher altitude and lower temperatures than mountains. It is a problem that has not been solved. Finally, I should like to point out that there was no aid - it was not planned before, and not now - for some publicly certified social care units, which treat weak people, such as old age or long-term care establishments. I would like to know, of course, on the basis of the decision signed by you these days, when the first payment will be made, and if what we read in publications applies, that those who will buy the oil up to 31-12-2016 will receive the sum in full, while those who buy it later will probably get a reduced amount. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u84	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. On the question of Mr Kegeroglu's question, first of all we would like to see the measure being much more proportionate for too many cases, really mountain villages and also plains, which have very low temperatures. For this reason, by my predecessor, a request had been made to the Services in order to provide data with the temperatures from the National Meteorological Service. That was not possible. From there on, because we wanted to give at least the most proportionate we could have brought this decision. In accordance with the decision, for applications submitted by 31 December 2016 the allowance will be paid by 31 January 2017 and for applications submitted from 1 January 2017 until 31 May 2017 the allowance will be paid until 30 June 2017. In the event of rejection of the application, the applicant shall also have the right to submit an application for a review by 31 July 2017. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000. The decision is to remove a budget from the second instalment in order to satisfy the objections. The total allocation entered in the budget of the Ministry of Finance for the heating allowance is EUR 105 million. However, since the amount of the total expenditure depends on actual events, beneficiaries and oil consumption, any additional expenditure can be covered by transferring appropriations to the planned OEM 2732. It looks like this in the decision too. With regard to the criteria, what happened last year has not changed, income, real estate, qualifications, etc. The process remains the same. The important change is that Evros went to the 1st zone and most importantly that the municipalities that according to the Kallikrates law, as you mentioned, are defined as mountains, fall within the immediately upper zone, from which the county belongs. Therefore, the Municipality of Vianno of the Prefecture of Heraklion, the Municipality of Lassithi, Lassithi Prefecture, the Municipality of Amari, Saint Vasilios and Anogei of Rethymnon, the Municipality of Sfakion and Cantanou Selinos of Chania, as they are characterized by mountains, are transported to the Third Zone. Several mountain municipalities of Crete, Mr Kegeroglu - since you are from Crete - go to the Third Zone. We believe next year that we can be more proportionate to the distribution of oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u87	Minister, we hope that next year there will continue to be the allowance, because some things are being discussed, proposals from the World Bank, in which the proposal to abolish the oil premium, in order to save resources for other policies. I think they can be corrected this year once there is a need. Of course, before you can tell us what the phrase 'after the amount required' means. Does that mean that two different beneficiaries, under the same conditions, when one puts oil in December and the other puts Genarris, will they get a different amount? Let's get this straight. I think that this year you can make this improvement, for which you requested data from the National Meteorological Service, we can also obtain data from other sources, from ELSTAT, on the basis of the altitudes, because you have rightly referred to the mountainous, administrative, some designated under the Kallikras law. But I will tell you that the former Municipality of Agia Varvara has the same conditions as the Municipality of Anogeion, or the Municipality of Krona, etc. There is a village next to Anogias, namely the Malevziou Awards, which it does not take because it is in another administrative department. It can be done, in my view, on the basis of the people who will submit the applications and at the end, with the clearance, that they can be paid the difference in the accounts. Consider whether in 2017 you can do it. You have three months to make it. It's not hard to do. But what you must look at now, I think, is the possibility of people getting a significant advance on the basis of their application to buy oil. It is difficult for many people to find the money to buy oil and wait to get the allowance. I think that, if he is a beneficiary and he can do so, the advance would be an act that would solve the problem for many thousands of families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u89	In fact, what Mr Kegerolgos has proposed is I too, because in my own area there are two mountainous blocks and the very resort of my area is in the Municipality of Volos, it is not in the areas. But it was impossible to do this and in order not to lose the rest of Greece's mountain towns, which are at least characterized by "Kallikratis", we thought it was right for these municipalities to take it. The decision was sincere. We knew what we wanted to do to remove any injustices there were. Instructions were given too early. And with ELSTAT there was co-operation with PPC with the postal codes. At the moment, we think there is all the necessary elements - already the FEK is coming today - to make the implementation open. As far as Mr Kegeroglu's proposals are concerned, we have time to look at them. But at the moment I cannot promise anything other than the decision that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, sixteen students and students and two educational attendants from the General High School of St. Argolidos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Guys, there are few Members here, because it is a procedure in which Members come and ask the ministers, after their question has been answered in writing, on issues that concern them. That's why they're so few. The Member is coming, asking the Minister, and the Minister is answering. At 6 p.m. Parliament will start at 6 p.m., where there will be a lot of people, because the bill will be discussed. Thank you for coming to the House. I think we should continue with Mr Kegeroglou to have his flow, as is the case with the ministers, and to have a little acclimatisation. Therefore, the seventh question, number 285/13-12-2016, will be discussed in the context of the second time question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the protection of consumers from excessive charges on electronic interbank transactions and the use of credit and debit cards. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you know, these days the House is discussing the bill on the promotion of electronic transactions, so that they, if not all, become compulsory for a large category of transactions. For a long time I have tabled a question to Mr Stathakis, which is why I ask if the Ministry intends to do something to address the excessive charges of certain banks for electronic transactions, interbanking in particular, for transferring funds from one bank to another in accounts of two different persons, and, of course, for implementing Regulation 751/2015, which provides for a higher cap on transactions with debit and credit cards. The Minister's answer at the time was that an observer will be set up, which will identify the phenomenon of excessive charges, its extent and then measures will be taken. On the basis of the reply I received at that time, but also on the basis of the reply I have received from Mr Tsakalotos, who seems to be primarily responsible for the application of Regulation 751, I ask you today whether the observatory, which Mr Stathakis spoke of, has been established, whether we have information on the amount of the debts - the debts, as I describe them - for interbank transactions and transactions with debits or credit cards, and if you have any notice from the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, that he intends and how to apply Regulation 751/2015, which was mandatory for the Greek state since 9 December 2015 - I stress again - and so far has not done anything to protect the traders with the banks, from these excessive charges. Of course, now with the bill that will increase the compulsion of transactions, this phenomenon will be stronger and the problems with charges will be burdened by poor people. That is what I think we should not let go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Greek legal system a general prohibition has been introduced to the beneficiary to charge the payer for the use of the payment instrument. In particular, the Greek legislature, by incorporating the number 64/2007 of the European Parliament directive on payment services into the market, also by making use of the discretion it had from that directive in Article 49 para. Article 3 of Law 3862/2010 explicitly provided that the beneficiary was not entitled to charge the seller for the use of that payment instrument. Furthermore, Article 4c of Law 2251/1994 on the protection of consumers, as last amended as follows: ‘The supplier is not entitled to impose charges on consumers for the use of a particular payment instrument. This Article shall apply, in both sales contracts and water, gas service contracts, etc.’ With regard to Regulation No 2751/2015 of the European Parliament, which concerns four-way payment systems, which are binding, has general effect and need not be transposed, this includes a provision expressly laying down that interbank transactions, which are only part of the total fee charged by the supplier, may not exceed 0,3% of the transaction value, when it is made by credit card, while specific limitations are provided for when payment is made by a debit card. These limits already apply from 9-12-2015 and are responsible for the implementing measures, as you said, for the Financial Policy Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, it is known that the collective market operators have concluded agreements with credit institutions which provide for an overall commission significantly less than 1%. Finally, according to European Union Directive 92/2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the incorporation of which in the Greek legal order is at a final stage, introduce rules on transparency and comparability of payment charges. In particular, the right is granted to the consumer to have free access to a comparison table, charged by payment service providers for their most representative services. However, it should be noted at this point that the bank's pricing policy is formulated in accordance with the principles of free competition, within the limits of the acquis communautaire. In this context, the Secretariat-General for Trade is considering the creation of an observatory of banking charges for basic banking services to consumers in order to ensure such rights, prevent abuse of behaviour and contribute together to other competent bodies in the orderly functioning of the banking system, with a view to ensuring consumer rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you'll tell the rest in your dentistry. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I wonder why, for one year, Mr Stathakis has not created the observatory, for which he was committed, and today you say that there is still the thought of creating the observatory, which will observe the bank's overcompensation. I would say that 'whoever doesn't want to ferment, ten days sifting'! To confirm this, I will tell you in the Minutes the abolition of eight abuses by banks and charge citizens or put them in judicial adventures, with my own ministerial decisions in 2011. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Suffice a ministerial decision, Minister, to abolish the bank's abusive practice. I, as State Secretary for Labour, responsible for the General Secretariat of Consumers and Consumer Protection, signed these decisions. Why can't we do that today? Secondly, you have spoken about the free formulation of the bank's pricing policy on charges for electronic transactions. You're not telling us well. These apply when there is a healthy competition framework. Do you forget that you have imposed Capital Controls? Do you forget that you can't open an account where any trader wants to be? I, that is, personally happened to have an account with the national authorities and my child studying happened to have an account with Eurobank. Why every time I transfer 120 euros to him, I need to pay 7 euros and not be able to do any different? Is that a free choice? Oh, no! Since there is a coercion in relation to bank accounts and in relation to money trafficking and there is a real commitment of all depositors' money and it must be made compulsory through these transactions, a higher plaque should also be imposed. As long as the capital controls are in place, there must be a higher cap on interbank transactions. It is not possible for there to be a free choice and free choice of the bank and for the other, to create an account with another bank, because if I could open an account with the National Bank, with the same bank, then the charge would be zero. You understand, therefore, that you cannot invoke the freedom that exists at European level to shape tariff policy. Now I come to Regulation 751. I don't think you gave me the answer. I shall submit here a document from the Bank of Greece, which has taken care of - to avoid abuse and not expose the country, I suppose - to sign it, dated 8 December. While the question was later, the document signed it on 8 December. Why? From December 9, 2015, as you said, the regulation had to be applied and it did not apply. However, the regulation is compulsory. It does not have to be incorporated into Greek law. It is compulsory and anyone who does not apply does not violate duty. The government is, of course, responsible for implementing it, and in particular, the Minister for Finance and, more specifically, a specific address. I would therefore present this letter from the Bank of Greece, dated 8 December, not in writing, but with the answers we have received, I think, that the country is exposed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A regulation, which is of the benefit of the law, cannot be applied to citizens, while, unfortunately, we have other provisions to the detriment of citizens on the same day. I would therefore ask you, because you are the Minister responsible for supervising the General Secretariat of the Consumers, which is responsible for the protection of banks - for the protection of banks - is Mr Tsakalotos, you are to protect the citizens who are traded - you must immediately see, as a competent Minister, how the charges for electronic interbank transactions are to be set - and it is an opportunity for the bill that we are debating today - at least as long as the capital controls are in place. And of course, you need to see in your question document why Regulation 751 does not apply to the banks and charges above. That's for granted. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u96	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, because time is limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Kegeroglu, I cannot tell you what you said to Mr. Stathakis. What I can tell you is that I heard what you said. The responsibilities are Mr Tsakalotou, as you know, for the Ministry of Finance. I'll look at what you told me, because I'm responsible for the consumers, but I can't tell you that I can do something with the banks. I'm going to settle this with Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u98	We continue with our last question, the sixth, number 193/11-11-2016, a topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Eleftherios Aygenakis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the freezing of all public works due to Law 4412/2016 on public procurement. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u99	I am pleased that we are finally discussing a timely question which we tabled a month and a half ago at the beginning of November. For the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the nature of the current issue has also been lost. You know, when you now "accept" to answer a timely question, usually developments have overcome us and the meaning of the timely has been lost. That's why the Chair is responsible. This is the case today with the question of public works and public procurement. Minister, the application of Law 4412/2016 is another example of writing the curiosity and lack of programming with which your Government legislates and exercises management. You have put the law into effect - not you personally - without having taken care of the conditions for its implementation. The implementation, or more rightly, of the non-implementation until now of Law 4412 on public procurement, works, supplies and services, which was adopted in early August, has caused enormous problems. And I explain: By Law 4412/2016 you set new rules for the award, award and performance of public works, supplies and services contracts. In order to activate this law, however, Minister, it is necessary to issue a series of secondary legislation - presidential decrees, ministerial decisions - most of which I note are still pending, four and a half months later. At the same time, the creation of the digital infrastructure envisaged, such as the standardisation of tender and draft contracts, interoperability with the websites of contracting authorities, the establishment of an electronic draw system in the EMFF, so that a public project can be launched and auctioned. Furthermore, the standard forms of declaration for supplies and services have not yet been prepared, thus making it impossible, Minister, to carry out any contract, from the simplest, for example, the supply of graphics to the most complex ones, such as the construction of an important infrastructure. In fact, the models of declarations have been announced recently, while the publication of the draft texts is still expected. Since those requirements have not been fulfilled or have been fulfilled in part, to be precise, it becomes impossible to implement the law, despite the fact that it is in force since its publication on 8 August 2016. As a result of this sloppiness, tendering for any work can not proceed. The unfavourable consequences for the start-up or continuation of projects that are being implemented gradually and have joined the NSRF are of grave concern, but also concern to all of us. The situation is even more complicated, Minister. The Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts is unable to give specific guidance to operators, first and second grades. Thus, he advises them - keep this - to do so at once, as far as their declarations are concerned, and to run them according to No.4412/2016. But then this tragic thing happened: the verification of the legality of public contracts carried out by the decentralised administration determines the decisions relating to the declarations. For example, I give you an example: only for the Municipality of Heraklion, more than thirty decisions have been declared invalid by the Decentralised Administration of Crete, because they have followed what you have told them. Minister, I think you understand that this unfavourable development practically means many months' delays in the award and award of public works. I imagine you are aware of the disastrous consequences, both for the development of projects and for the local economy, for the movement of money in the local market and for job creation. The ironic in the whole story is that the problem would not even have been created, if you had taken care of it, Minister, so that there are transitional provisions, which define what can be applied until the procedures required by the law are completed. So I ask you, first of all, what action you intend to take to resolve the problem immediately, which has been created by the implementation of Law 4412/2016 and, secondly, why there have been no transitional provisions in this law to regulate these matters and to make public service, supply and works contracts unresolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u100	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Law 4412/2016, which was adopted and implemented in August 2016, is directly applicable and constitutes an adaptation of national legislation to two Community Directives: First, Directive 2014/24 EU, concerning the procedure for the award of public contracts and, secondly, Directive 2014/25 EU, covering the procurement of entities in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. In view of the principles of transparency and impartiality, by means of that regulatory framework, procedures relating to the execution of public works shall be homogenised, but also to legal protection at the time of their departure. The law entered into force immediately, because the arrangements in question have been a country's relevant Memorandum of Understanding, but also a heresy for the NRP. It was, in other words, an obligation with a deadline, which could lead to the suspension of ESRB payments by the European Union, thus causing a problem of liquidity and resource absorption and thus of public works freezing. In addition, Law 4412/2016, on the one hand, codified the many scattered legislation until then, as there was another for works, other for services, other for studies, other for judicial protection, other for technical assistance and many different procurement regulations. On the other hand, it regulated various issues which had at times been accepted by national and European courts or control bodies. In rejecting the distortions of the past, all special provisions on the award and execution of public works are abolished by the new Act, the special regulations of public bodies and companies, PPC, ERGOSE, PHSH etc., as well as any other general or special provisions of this Regulation. In other words, Law 4412/2016 introduces the reforms that the country's healthy entrepreneurship forces have been demanding for decades on several occasions. This is therefore a law that will eventually make users easier. It is understandable that the prestige, both of the substantial changes which have brought about, as well as of the changes at the disposal of the relevant legislation, gives rise to reasonable and healthy stress on the part of the stakeholders, such as any legislative change and incision. However, it must be borne in mind that the law has already been in force for four months. He was in public consultation for a long time. These instructions were known to all stakeholders, as of April 2014. It should be stressed that under the new regulatory framework of the n. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. It is obvious that the law has already been activated, while the processing of public works is clearly and is not being hampered. In this respect and in order to remedy any doubt, I would stress that the provisions of Law 4412/2016 concerning public supply and general service contracts are directly applicable and that their validity does not depend on secondary law. Any delegated acts provided for in secondary law shall not prevent or suspend the application of the rules on the award and performance of public contracts, public supply contracts and general services. It must therefore be clear to everyone that in any case a transitional, temporary, special or exceptional regime for public procurement does not serve the public interest or is based on adequate administrative needs. On the contrary, such legislative initiatives would bring about the worst public mismanagement practices, which would break down the Greek people's financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I really wonder if you live in Greek reality. You could have quite simply predicted transitional provisions and there would be no problem in the market or in the operation of grades A and B. So, please, either you or your partners, make a communication to confirm that everything you described is valid, but somewhere else, not in Greece. Ice all public supplies and all public works - please keep it - due to the total absence of common sense and elementary administrative perception of the government. Unfortunately, for Greek society and our country, this is not a surprise. The dangerous downhill of the SYRIZA - ANEL government continues in all areas of public life. We are not surprised, however, by your answer, Minister. I was almost waiting for her. You follow the folded road, that is, hypocrisy and description of another situation, which has nothing to do with reality. The most recent example of the popular satire that we have been following since January 2015 is Mr. Tsipras's proclamation, with which he mocks retired people out of power. She's on seaweed for silk ribbons and she presents a one-off provision as a tenth pension, please. At the same time, because of this move, it freezes the negotiation for the end of the evaluation. A negotiation, Minister, that Mr Chakalotos and the rest of the financial staff were told to end in October - remember it - and that any extension of the waiting period would be harmful to the Greek economy. One would expect the government to show a little bit of respect for a sensitive social group, that of retired people. But no. The government uses low pensioners as a communication shield, extorting social groups, political parties and European governments. He did the same thing a while ago with the civil servants, sharing gifts and promises that the cutter doesn't touch them. However, Minister, the IAEA was the first force in the elections. And while in Greece you sell political scarf, in Berlin Mr. Tsipras meets Mrs. Merkel to end the misunderstanding, while Mr. Tsakalotos, reminds you, admits that it was a mistake not to inform you of the thirteenth pension. Only now, the Greeks, Mr. Minister, will they remember you as the governments of SYRIZA - ANEL, who frozen public works, cut off the ESS, which the communist Mr. Katrugalos cut off the pensions that Mr. Philis abolished excellence, merit and assessment in education, which Mr. Skourletis prevented any reform in energy. Today, Greeks know that the only way to get out of the multi-annual crisis is to blame and truth, which only New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis can guarantee. Minister, on this occasion, I should like to welcome the Prime Minister and MP Heraklion in Heraklion tomorrow, Messara. Mr Tsipras has to appear in Crete and as a local MP just two years, i.e. just before the previous elections. You think that means something? In fact, it also makes a statement that it will examine closely and even solve regional problems and questions of farmers. I can assure you, Minister, that farmers are far behind where we left them two years ago when you received the country's rule. All the great works, such as the Heraklion - Messaras road, as you have received, unfortunately, but with a tender that was in progress. Now the road to Kastelli is at the same spot, stationary and plunged. And all the issues lie two and three years behind what they should be. Unfortunately, Minister, the market has broken down, the banks remain closed and the Prime Minister now appears to be a Cretan MP to see, really, what? Nevertheless, we welcome him and be ready to accept our criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u104	Minister, I imagine you won't answer everything that doesn't concern you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u105	I have to make a clarification. I don't know what Mr. Augarians said about the bill, but he said it. I would like to add to clarification, in particular with regard to the secondary legislation report, that models of public procurement declarations have already been posted on the website of EFSA. As regards the use of digital infrastructures and in particular the operation of the computerised draw-down system, the GOMOEDY states that in no way shall the implementation of public works be suspended, as the contracting authorities may unnecessarily proceed to public procurement, following the intended procedure laid down in Article 117 of Law 4412/2016, the summary invitation to tender, while in cases of urgent need of an unforeseen nature, for example natural disasters, Article 32 of Law 4412/2016 may be applied to the negotiated procedure without prior publication. Overall, in order to address practical problems, the aim of the Ministry of Economy and Development is to set up a working group, involving representatives of co-operating bodies and services, in order to rationalise any issues arising in the implementation of the new legal framework, to facilitate coordination between the various services involved and coordinate appropriate solutions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. I will now read to you the current questions which will not be discussed today because of the impediment of the competent ministers. There is also the relevant document of the General Secretariat of the Government. The second, number 8/3-10-2016, question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "flooding and chemical that the government teaches what democracy means", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Also, the third question with number 91/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the program to rent apartments for refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA), will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Migration Policy Mr. Ioannis Mousalas. Cause: a lack of data from the Municipality of Athens. The fifth under number 283/12-12-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek MP, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the approval of a medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH).), it will also not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The third, with number 275/7-12-2016, a top-stage question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the "funding of journalists and websites", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Furthermore, for the same reason, the fourth question under number 293/13-12-2016 will not be discussed for the first time in the Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the delay in the payment of the prizes to the former contractors of the ERT. Also, the third with number 274/7-12-2016 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of National Defence, on the exploitation of the Emmanouil Papa camps and Papaloukas of Serres Prefecture, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. Cause: an official visit of Armenia's Minister of National Defence. Finally, the first question under number 288/13-12-2016 of the First Circular of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Tourism, concerning public tourism training in Corfu, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Tourism Mr. Helena Kountoura. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point we will be adjourned at 6 p.m. when the agenda for legislative work begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Government Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxicals, Firm disclosure of undeclared income, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions". On Friday, 16 December 2016, the bill was discussed and passed in principle. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one unity. The procedure will be as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will also speak on the articles and amendments, and then take the floor on the articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u108	The House therefore agreed. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the 6th Xanthi Gymnasio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Vassilis Tsirkas, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, following the adoption by a large majority of Parliament's plenary of the thirteenth pension for the low pensioners and the strong absence of Officerial Response from this beneficial legislative initiative, it is now clear in the eyes of the Greek people whose interests and pursuits each serves in this House. Those who have chosen this attitude have put themselves in the hard judgment of the citizens, to whom they are not just exposed but also accountable. They even reached the point of blaming the Prime Minister for this one-off, indirect third pension for a million six hundred thousand low pensioners. You have declared abstaining in trying to support our poor and economically weak fellow citizens. Today we are called upon to vote on the suspension of an increase in VAT on the islands which bear the burden of the refugee crisis throughout Europe. This decision, to suspend the increase in VAT for the islands receiving the refugee flows, was deemed necessary and necessary in order to alleviate their residents, as from 1 January the VAT would automatically increase. Therefore, VAT on islands that raise the burden of Europe's migratory crisis every day is freezing. After the sharp social reactions caused by the Qualified Opposition not to vote for the social benefit, they say today that they will vote on this amendment. They're welcome. But be sure that citizens listen, see and understand. Unfortunately, instead of asking for so many other measures for low-pension workers, which you have made poor with your policies, you are committed to voting for so much and so much of what Mr Shoeble is asking for. We are legislated in a difficult economic environment and sedated many times by the catastrophic choices of 2010-2014. We continue, as it turns out, with this multi-project which we are debating today in this House, in plenary, to bring legislative initiatives which are in the interests of the weaker and which pave the way for even more beneficial interventions for those who need it. And today, the radical areas that we have to vote on, both in the sensitive area of justice and in the areas of combating tax evasion, confirm our political will for institutional change and for reform, so as not to perpetuate the status of non-transparency, the loss of public revenue, the increase in tax evasion and black money. With the reform of the bankruptcy code, in the first part of the bill, the possibility of restoring business is provided and a second chance is made for debtors, natural persons who have been bankrupt, but also for exempting them from debts. It is therefore necessary to seek strong institutional impurities to ensure a fair balance of interests, to protect the weak and to restore social peace. There is the possibility of a second chance for the debtor, who was judged by justice not to have committed fraudulent bankruptcy, while the effectiveness of the bankruptcy procedure is strengthened, and the time-limits for the development of the bankruptcy procedure are shortened, and the full implementation of bankruptcy law are strengthened. In the second part of this draft law, measures shall be adopted to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings, both in the Council of State and in the ordinary administrative courts. The introduction to the S.E. the judicial means of requesting the reopening of the procedure, following a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the introduction of the institution of the intra-judicial compromise settlement of disputes against claims for administrative contracts, the introduction of the institution of the rapporteur, the administrative differences in substance other than actions, the reduction of the conditions for appealing and appealing before the Council of State, the commitment of more than the administrative courts and the irrevocable judgments of criminal courts are important interferences in the direction of rationalisation and speeding up the administrative proceedings. In Part Three, the draft law includes arrangements for the reduction of legal fees and infringements. It is important to find a point of balance between the exercise of abusive and completely unfounded media, without fundamentally preventing the right to legal protection for the citizen, as a basic constitutional authority, as laid down in Article 20 of the Constitution. And it is undeniable that, because of the economic crisis, a large proportion of citizens find it difficult to pay paradoxical and judicial fees, which are made as prerequisites for the exercise of such instruments or aids. So streamlining and reducing judicial fees and infringements ensures the right of citizens to judicial protection and makes their access to justice easier. Judicial law is abolished in recognizing actions, and this arrangement restores the notion of differentiation between declarants and recognizing conductors. I also mentioned in my first speech in plenary that it has been particularly used in this direction and the question of compensation by the German Com mission in relation to the payment of a judicial notice to the actions of victims of the occupation forces. They're reducing paradoxes. Many of the paradoxes in the Code of Criminal Procedure are changed for the benefit of citizens and the right to judicial protection. In addition to the existing exemption from the obligation to pay a judicial charge for labour matters, this is reduced to half for all other democracies in labour disputes. And the necessary regulation now appears to be necessary as it allows workers to claim their claims more effectively, judicially, which, otherwise, could not, because of the difficult economic position that have arisen. A minimum paradox is being introduced to request that the trial be deferred, the revenue from which it is directed to the institution of legal aid, for those who need it. Article 52 introduces the participation of lawyers as legal representatives in antiquities of collective bodies, which meets a constant demand from the law-makers. Moreover, the status of lawyers as such as unpaid public servants and pillars of the jurisprudence actors also effectively surrounds the process of safeguarding the public interest concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Going to the provisions of the Ministry of Finance - Mr President, I will also use the time of my dentistry, thank you - we must point out that our legislative initiative was a commitment to both voluntary disclosure of deposits and the extension of the use of plastic and electronic money. The voluntary disclosure programme for each taxpayer is therefore being implemented, and this programme is a useful tool for dealing with tax evasion, which will help increase public revenues, and will enable taxpayers to include their actual income in the calendar statement. The same wavelength is moving measures to extend the use of plastic and electronic money, which are based on the logic of incentives for citizens to adopt electronic payments, in order to create a solid regulatory framework that can be applied over the long term. On the basis of this framework, specific beneficial measures and incentives are also laid down to reduce income tax, build duty free through the use of electronic transactions, which can be another tool to strengthen public revenue and strengthen the social budget in order to support the weakest finances. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial year 2016 closes with positive economic indicators. We have shown that over-performance of revenues will lead to the economically weaker ones. In this way we redistribute wealth for the benefit of the weaker layers. We have succeeded and achieved the budgetary targets, keeping society up and opening up the way, so that in 2017, for which positive growth rates are foreseen, we can achieve greater government revenues. And these results are due to our determination to put an end to the sea loans taken by some with air, to fight with tax evasion and tax evasion, smuggling of tobacco and fuel. Our will is to combat tax evasion and to render justice for all. It takes a systematic and persistent effort, and next year to re-evaluate revenues. We are committed that any surplus will return to the citizens to benefit from other social categories in need, except those which have already benefited from the decisions we have taken, as we did yesterday with the low-pensioners, as we will do today with the islanders. That is why we have negotiated hard and continue today to negotiate hard to reduce the objectives of the primary surpluses. We did it for 2016, 2017 and 2018, when the previous governments had agreed to exterior primary surpluses of 4.5%. We are determined to defend the rights of the Greek people and especially of the poor, the unemployed and the low-income people. For this reason, we will never hand over the Greek people north to the well-being of austerity and recession. The people do not forget that you have given written samples of how you, gentlemen of Officers, the unreasonable Soibelle requirements and the hard lenders for additional measures, additional safeguards and the abolition of any conquest left standing. Would you resist or say 'yes' to the mountains of Berlin? Your attitude to this day proves that you are willing to support the most harsh anti-grassroots policies. Fortunately for the country and its people, the elections will take place in 2019, when the country will come out of the memorials and hard comitology, and then we will all be judged for our options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, on a point of order, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u112	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u113	For two minutes. It's a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u114	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, this situation with the number of amendments - and I say this because, as we speak, two other amendments were tabled during the rapporteur's speech - it cannot continue. The government, which shows on this issue, is a behaviour in the way of legislating which the Greek Parliament does not honour. We have ten ministerial amendments, three of which have been tabled at the last hour. Of these three, then, one speaks of very serious issues, such as the Ministry of Tourism, and goes on to direct assignments to the EOT. I'm only talking about the last ones. The other amendment that has been tabled concerns the marketing of mineral oils. This is a great amendment, which changes the system in the trade in oil, these issues, as you can see, cannot be discussed in this way. An amendment concerning the movement of the Minister for Migration Policy was also tabled a moment ago. Let us go wherever the Minister for Migration Policy wants, but the problem is what the result is. We cannot control these procedures that way. Yesterday we had an amendment to set up a plenary meeting of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, which was withdrawn after our strong protests on the issues it had. In fact, "Yannis is buying, Yannis drinks". That's what we called it. You can understand that this is not how this House can legislate. That does not justify this situation. We can't understand what's going on. Are you coming down tomorrow and we have elections? Have you decided to go to electoral proceedings and have we this way of legislating? Tomorrow we have a bill, Mr President. Two days. The debate begins tomorrow morning and ends tomorrow night. I would ask at least some of them to withdraw from this procedure and come in - if it is not in the normal way - in any event tomorrow in the discussion process. It is not possible for the House to judge such important amendments in this way. And in any case, the Ministers to whom these amendments refer are not even here to present them. This can't be the way. I would ask that the Bureau and the Government take over at this time to stop this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. Of course, the ministers will come in this respect. We are going with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law debate is taking place within a bleak climate triggered by instability and uncertainty. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is attempting to turn its political deadlocks into deadlocks for the country. We all know that the delay in closing the evaluation has consequences. It remains to be seen what these consequences are and hopefully not to be commensurate with the consequences of the proud negotiation, which you made in the first seven months of 2015, which charged the country with 100 billion euros, brought a new and more painful memorandum and dissolved the banking system. The government, if it can't govern, can run elections and abstain. Because that will be the result of the elections, no matter what. But it does not have the right to play the country in the dice and to send after the account to be paid by Greek citizens. There are some who think they are still in the era when the memorials were abolishing, acting as if nothing has happened since January 2015. So I would remind them that Mr Siomple and the Troika have always called for the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands. The New Democracy has never yielded to this requirement. You have satisfied this requirement. Mr. Shoeble and the troika have always called for the excess and the assignment to it all of the public property. The New Democracy did not even accept to discuss it. You, you gave it all up. You transferred the public property to the supermarket for a hundred years and under foreign control, as if the country had lost any war and had to pay military compensation. Mr. Shoeble is a given that he had raised the issue of the country's exit from the euro. If there is a government serving this plan, that is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So stop underestimate the intelligence of the Greek citizens, who all know who are ready to sign and accept all of them, so that they will remain even for a day longer in power. The SYRIZA MEP, Mr. Chryssogonos, told you that you should have discussed with the partners the issue of benefit and informed you. The same thing Mr. Chakalotos mentioned, of course, chewed. I would like to remind you how the VAT reduction took place in the focus from 23% to 13% by the New Democracy Government. And then there were objections from our partners. We insisted, however, that we behave with arguments. The reduction in VAT in the catering was done without any turbulence. Of course you came later and increased VAT on the focus from 13% to 24%. The country's governance needs a sense of responsibility towards society and citizens. For this government, however, it is a priority for micro-party purposes, for dismantling. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also ask for the time of my denunciation in relation to the speech on the articles in the bill. I'm starting with the provisions of the bankruptcy code. What should, ladies and gentlemen, have been the target of this bill? It had to be the simplification of bankruptcy at all stages and in all directions. This was also the raw material on which the proposal put forward by the New Democracy for the reform of the Banking Code was based. The provisions you have brought are not a solution to the problem, despite the fact that there are also positive arrangements. This legislative effort is fragmentary and stubborn. There should be an overall institutional intervention that would guarantee the completion of the bankruptcy procedure and the repayment of creditors within twenty-four months. But it doesn't exist. The objections we have about Article 11 are given that, in order to reduce the time to discharge the debtor from debts, there is a request from the debtor and a judicial decision. Why do we disagree? Because with this wording there will be a delay in the decision making of the case, a parallel loss of the debtor's return delay, economic activity and normality. There is no hesitation of the procedure, which was the long delay in decommissioning of the debtor, which was also heterogeneous at his expense, after carrying the burden of proof on the part of the debtor. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's remarks and positions with regard to the provisions on administrative proceedings are as follows: we believe that there are provisions that are in the right direction to simplify procedures and to speed up the administration of justice. I shall mention, for example, Articles 19, 22, 23, 28 and 30 which we consider to be moving in the right direction. We believe that it is in the right direction to reduce to 20% instead of 50% the advance payment on the basis of the first tax decision, which has so far been a precondition for the appeal to be effective and accepted. The same applies to the reduction to 1% instead of 2% of the proportional paradox on tax differences in financial matters. Ladies and gentlemen, I move on to the arrangements and responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance. The draft law on voluntary disclosure and taxation of undeclared income and the plastic money bill could be linked to beneficial effects not only on revenue but also on the entire economic activity. The government has been blocking it for over a year and a half. Eventually what they brought together, they constitute a clipboard gonatogram, ignorant and ineffective. The arrangements contained in the draft law on voluntary disclosure of taxable material are not to be rendered. There are high tax rates which are the most powerful counterincentive there is. No one is going to reveal undeclared incomes with tax rates exceeding 60%. It is also a given fact that the sloppiness and lack of pragmatism I have highlighted are reflected in Article 57. I also pointed it out to the committee, but I did not get an answer from the Ministry of Finance to see what is self-evident. I would like you to tell me on what basis someone who is going to be regulated in March will pay an additional tax of 8%, while someone who comes in two months later will pay 10%. What's the criterion? Ladies and gentlemen, these arrangements should be an incentive and not an incentive. There is also a question with Article 61, which we believe is in the wrong direction. According to Article 61, if a person fails to pay instalments and lose regulation, this automatically means that he loses all other beneficial provisions. This article effectively undoes any incentive to exist. As far as the provisions on plastic money are concerned, I told you before that the New Democracy and all the institutions of the market and the economy were facing the creation of a new institutional framework for extending the use of plastic money as a reformist effort with multiplier benefits for businesses, citizens and the economy. What did you do? Apart from bringing a bill with considerable delay and without incentives to all Greek citizens, you have given it a punishing character. The inadequacy and carelessness are evident in most of the provisions of this bill, beyond the wrong philosophy from which they are governed. It is foreseen that the deadline for the establishment of electronic money transactions devices will be set by a ministerial decision, and the penalties provided for in Article 65 will be laid down by Ministerial Decision. What for? Shouldn't all of this be identified in the bill? Is there a greater proof of curiosity and inability to prepare and plan rationally from the provisions of Article 68, enabling the Minister to determine the exceptions to the provisions on the use of plastic money? What prevented you and prevents you from identifying these exceptions in the bill? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry. Is it so difficult to provide for over-aged people, the inhabitants of the smaller islands, mountainous and inappropriate areas, for SMEs, for orphanaged minors, to refer to a case where many are ignoring? Is it so hard? For two years you have been dealing with the specific provisions of the bill and even these simple and self-evidently you cannot regulate. The greatest weakness of this bill is the fact that it effectively restricts incentives to extend the use of plastic money to collect receipts for tax-free. I do not need to recall that the New Democracy has tabled a comprehensive and comprehensive proposal to extend the use of plastic money to specific objectives, which highlight not only incentives but also multiplier benefits for the economy, public revenue, professionals and citizens. In the provisions for the expansion of plastic money there is no unintentional professional account and I call on the Ministry of Finance's political leadership to stop grieving and, above all, to stop underestimating our intelligence. There could be a special non-confidential business account, but from which all the costs of payroll, payment of insurance and tax obligations and costs for suppliers would be binding. Unfortunately - and I am sorry to say this - the provisions of the plastic money bill are a lost opportunity to have a major reform in the real economy. A reference to the third chapter of the last section of this draft law on financial control and government payments: Expenditure control will now be carried out by the ministries' financial services, after the abolition of the financial control services from 1 January, expenditure control and the issue of financial orders will be carried out by the Ministries' Directorates-General for Finance. The specific articles, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, which you are going to vote on today, are the natural continuity and development of Law 4270/2014 brought by the Samara government and you voted against. Consistency and truth have never been able to meet with this government. On the contrary, the government is consistent at a time when it meets lies and populism. Another objection: I would like to refer to Article 79 and Article 82(3), since it appears from these two articles that only orders which are not repaid through the Single Payments Authority will be sent to the Court of Auditors for repressive control. What does that mean? It means that preventive control is abolished by the Court of Auditors. There is also a major issue with Article 94, in which there is a transitional provision providing that expenditure incurred in 2016 by the Ministry of Finance is considered to be lawful by way of derogation from the provisions on commitments and any other general or special provision which may be paid by the Ministry of Finance in the current and subsequent year. However, this creates the risk that there will be expenditure to be charged to the 2017 budget, which we did not know when it was voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, respect the financial rules, respect public money. Stop using the House as a laundry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable and completely unparliamentary procedure to table three ministerial amendments a moment ago. I shall refer to the amendment on the suspension of one year of the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands, which are facing the negative consequences of immigration. The New Democracy will vote in favour. You are, however, the ones that sold literally and transportly the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. There are already two speed islands in this way. Let me also remind you that the migratory, hot spots, you loaded them on these islands. You are the ones who have broken up their tourism. And at the moment, it is not enough to suspend the abolition of reduced rates of VAT to deal with the consequences of your devastating choices on these islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. Ladies and gentlemen, this government leads the country to new measures and new deadlocks. With this government, the country will constantly move into an outstanding instability and uncertainty. That is why the solution and the cleansing, in the ancient Greek sense of the term, can only result from elections, elections which will result in political change, a new government with a coherent and realistic programme, a reform government that will give hope and perspective. This will be the government of the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. I would like to say to the House that there are already 40 registered speakers. In total, with those left on Friday, there are forty-six speakers. You realize it's impossible to go by morning. So what is going to happen is to respect our time first. The two rapporteurs have already spoken and received their second language. It is advisable to stick to the protology, to respect the times, and depending on the evolution of the evening, to see what we will do after the first speeches. I say this so that we do not have an excessive zeal of speakers. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Panayotarus, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin the bill, I would like to make a little mention: a short time ago the Chief of Golden Dawn made a speech to the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, in the Senate Hall, a speech that was not transmitted by the ERT, because some throttle mates and comrades decided this inalienable right of the third political force to sabotage it. These polite ones, who used to be arrogant of the abets, the arrogant arms, and the unscrupulous legs, are now telling us what is going to happen. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're continuing with solid armpits now. Okay, comrades. All right, by the way. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Whatever you do, comrades and comrades, the Golden Dawn rises. And no matter how much you sneeze her, she'll get up more. Take the hammer. You were inconsistent with everything you said a while ago and now you will pay the price. No matter how much you sneeze on us, you're supposed to do nothing. As far as the bill is concerned, the Minister said that there would be no amendments. And suddenly today we have been bombed by amendments, Mr Minister, of various types and species. Amendments concerning, as we have learned, the movements of Mr Muzala, the very successful term of office of this Minister. Indeed, he may want more money for travel. To go to Tympaki to see the churches which illegal immigrants, the jihadists, have levelled. Should he go back to Moria to see what's going on there with the Algerians and all these guys, who have nothing to do with refugees and the war in Syria or Iraq and elsewhere, who take over the people of the region? Perhaps Mr. Muzalas really needs more money to go to see the mess that he and his government have brought. We have also seen that amendments have been tabled, which are draft laws on their own, and they should come separately so that they can be discussed properly, not so. And we don't know how many more you'll bring by the end of tonight's meeting. We are pleased, because we are learning - and we hope to make a positive contribution - that Article 56A will be withdrawn, which was essentially the result of a number of various oils involved in Athens '97' and possibly others, such as the 2004 Olympic Games. If you really want to leave a positive mark, Minister, do what you can to do about the long cases pending, move to justice rapidly and not inadvertently to give the right to discharge to all those who have eaten, in blue and green rodents, decades now. It is another article, Minister, Article 71, dealing with the payment of the TEC accounts and other accounts by the PPP agencies. They will no longer have that possibility. And you say, okay, it won't be too much evil, it doesn't affect them. The agency people, the union explained to them and said, "We're the cleanest of all. The money that is being moved and the way it travels through agencies is absolutely clean and transparent. Is this your amendment, which does not seem so important, related to a small piece of paper to someone else? Because when the accounts are not paid through the OPCW agencies, they will probably be paid in other ways, such as through the new VIVA system, which is Mr Latsi's property. A little favor there, because the big favor is below, in articles 110, 111. In Article 106, as we said, it is an amendment, it is a photographic provision for a lawyer. Put the lawyer's name on it, so at least we don't play the courgettes and we don't fool each other. I'd like to stay in the two articles, at 110 and 111, concerning the two casinos. One is the casino that has existed for decades in Parnitha, Mont Parnes, a jewellery casino, which, especially since the 1999 earthquake, has been rampant and tied to sabotage it. And we understand why, with the other article, we see the facilities and permission given for the creation of casinos in the Greek area, Mr. Latsi. Here's the big service. The little one was with Article 71. And while everyone knows how this deal should be done as soon as it is to create a second casino in the Attica Prefecture - because the law allowed one - the casino that is in Parnitha - said the agreement from the beginning of the 1970s already - to be able to come down, within the urban fabric, to be competitive with the other. The oxymometer is that Parnitha's casino so far is partly state-owned and pays big revenues. It's a bank, literally. When the banks don't have any money, the casino has a lot of money. We know why. That's another matter. And you sabotage it and do not understand the essential reason, or rather understand it. You see, the pressure exerted on the Greek side, but perhaps elsewhere, is huge and the "first time left" succumbs to those who are presented as investors, but they want it all. They took the Greek free for a piece of bread literally, with too many doses. But that's not good enough for them. They want the casino license, and they don't want there to be a competitor. And the casino that has existed for decades and there are hundreds of workers there who live and work for too many years, see an uncertain future from a very sure business activity like the casino in Parnitha. Golden Dawn will be tabling - the Parliamentary spokesman will be mentioned - an amendment to secure jobs in this highly successful company that generates money, money for the state. It is neither problematic nor anything else. In Article 116, which has to do with the operation of the stores on Sundays and the periods of discounts, the position of the Golden Dawn is fixed. No store is running on Sundays. Sundays are for the family, it is for the exercise of our religious duties - those who want and want - it is the day where families, friends and not fight. In any case, they fight six days a week, let there be a day of rest. This article once again serves the very large mall, the multinationals who are active in our country and do not serve the small-scale Greek, the one who has the neighborhood shop, the shop or any other small or medium-sized activity that certainly cannot compete with the huge multinationals, with the huge funds that they do not have and the capital controls that can bring money endless from abroad, where they have workers who work for few hours a day or for 100, 200, 300 euros a month. So this does not serve the national economy at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, let me also use two minutes of my dentistry. The amendment on VAT in the small islands will be voted on by the Golden Dawn. Of course, Golden Dawn has also tabled an amendment in its turn to bring these benefits to all the islands of the Eastern Aegean, for all the Aegean islands which have benefited from VAT due to islands and which you literally disperse them. Of course, this amendment is not going to come. It's SYRIZA's usual tactic. No amendment to the Golden Dawn has ever been tabled to the House, even to discuss whether or not we are going to approve it. Otherwise, for the Articles of the Banking Code we were placed in our first report. Clearly we're against it. You help those who want to guard companies that have not finished and strive to be maintained and maintained in life. And instead of helping these companies, you give the right to any lenders, banks or others, to hold up some companies that they think can have a future. In the articles dealing with administrative justice and the misunderstandings, where there are irregularities, for the benefit of Greek citizens, we will vote positively. In addition, there are some positive provisions for the other provisions, and some are not. Finally, I would like to make a comment on tax provisions voluntary disclosure of undeclared income. Here, as we told you, he also laughs at the old goat, because it is quite simply not going to be anyone who has undeclared income, legal or otherwise, to tell you when he is going to get 60%, 70% and 80%, and how in times of crisis where there are no jobs, there is no turnover, there is no movement, with the capital controls. I mean, you'll do, in very simple words, a hole in the water. For the articles, as a whole, we shall put to the end, pursuant to Article, whether we shall vote 'yes' or 'no' or whether we shall declare 'the present'. To conclude, I would like to wish good Greek Orthodox Christmas to all Greek citizens. 2017 will be a very difficult year. I wish very courage, too much strength, to face what is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. The rapporteur for the PASOK Democrat Association, Mr Koutsoukos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the provisions of the bill, I would like to refer to what our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Theocharopoulos, had to say, since he was absent from the Chamber at that time, Mr Kontonis, who rebuked me to the committee when I raised the issue of legislation, how, in other words, this government is legislating. I did not use the phrases of Mr Papadioulis, nor of him, who spoke of coups and so many others at a time. I said that 90% of the bills could not come as an emergency and I was also pressed upon these urgent and, in five and five, that is, at the time of the rapporteurs, tabling serious amendments, which I believe no fellow Member can even read them. And much more when some of them have hidden interests, such as permits to oil, contracts to EOT, etc. Minister for Justice, can one believe that the plenary within a few hours can be placed on the substance of these amendments? Apparently not. You were asked by Mr. Theocharopoulos: “What is going on? Does the government fall?’ I say it's not falling today, it's falling slowly. He's not hitting the bottom yet. Only in cases where the government escaped, we had this type of legislative procedure. But I would like to raise another point, ladies and gentlemen. The previous bill, relating to the "buffets" made by SYRIZA at the Minimum Guaranteed Income and called it Social Income of Solidarity, was charged around the parties' regularities on aid to pensioners. I have heard the majority rapporteur today talking to us about redistribution, that we are giving it to those who have taken it. Mr President, did you not read the draft budget of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, which says that the surplus is 7.5 billion, that is 6.5 billion more than the draft budget? Bleeding is 6.5 billion. Of this, you could distribute 40%. Make the account, see how you are stealing permanently and firmly. And you steal it by subtracting indirect and direct taxes, with an increase in insurance contributions. And while the day before yesterday you had the heroism, to corner, supposedly, the Opposition, to make a roll-call vote in the name of your settlements, today when the other children came - well, the children - you don't make a roll-call vote to see if they're staying to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u122	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u123	Because the difference, ladies and gentlemen, is the same. In other words, neither what we are going to vote on today has been approved by the government - it is according to the memorandum we have signed - that it is possible to distribute the surplus - nor, much more, to change the budget by 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be serious. And I mention this because some of our resignation to conclude with SYRIZA was the day before yesterday. We told our location, neither Tsipras nor Symble. We've got our own line. And he's right and he's right every day. And it will be justified today that the New Democracy will vote for VAT and will be vindicated tomorrow for making the painful compromise and you will find it with the Troika and will bring the measures that will ensure the 3.5% surplus after 2018. That's the truth. We, however, are not affected by these on-line tactical moves and criticisms and we will have a firm line, which we believe will be justified by a change of relationships, by highlighting the Democratic Partnership as the crucial pole of the centre-left, useful for the country's course. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to repeat what I said yesterday. We have no objections to the provisions of the bankruptcy code that make the procedures more difficult. But, bankruptcy code, on the other hand, regulate red housing without small and medium-sized businesses and free trade will be a hole in the water. It will not, in other words, enable someone to re-market, an honest businessman who has taken him out of the crisis. I also said that in relation to electronic transactions, the criticism we are making is that they do not extend the way they should, that is, linking cash machines to information systems, electronic invoices and so on. And much more so that it does not have an incentive system for all taxpayers and does not have the irresponsible account for small and medium-sized professionals, so that it does not enter the long-handed hand of the bank and the tax on day-to-day receipts, so that the next day can pay workers, obligations, buy raw materials, continue the working cycle. And as far as the provisions on undeclared income are concerned, and we would agree to be more brave, to lead to undeclared cases being cleared. But not only are they more brave, but they are made in such a way that they will eventually be exploited by those who have been issued a control sheet, not by those who question the economic climate and stability of the tax system and thus never make their money so important for the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have told the committee - I come to the articles - that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure which increase expenditure, such as Articles 14 and 15, in relation to the volume of the document, we do not consider them reasonable and cannot vote on it. I said that we would not vote for provisions that put out articles of our own interventions and make justice more difficult, because instead of deciding the one-sided body, we are going to turn it back to the multi-members. These are Articles 18 to 20. I said that you are doing coarsely, surgically, increases in offenders - the ones provided for in Articles 35 to 39 - so that a poor man cannot postpone his case if something happened to him, such as an accident on the road. He has to pay. We don't understand - they told you other wings - why you're doing this. So rise paradoxically, raise judicial marks, increase majesty. And you're the ones who criticized us for what we tried to get justice on her feet. As far as the provisions of the Ministry of Finance beyond my general position are concerned, I have asked Mrs Papanatsiou to tell me why we are legalising retroactive expenses of the Ministry of Finance such as those contained in Article 94. Who are those who hide behind the provision of Article 103, who exempt certain undertakings from special property taxation? And I haven't got an answer. It is obviously some companies that are characterized as outsiders, but we are trying to find a form of legitimisation. We ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have tabled the amendment to reduce VAT rates as established by the PASOK on Andreas Papandreou. And Mr Kammens also said that if such a regulation comes to the House, it will throw the government away. No longer throwing the government away, but some Members also give it some of the islands. That's where we've arrived. So, in this amendment, which you are tabling and say 'we suspend the tax until the refugee crisis ends' and you do so for a year, I say that we will vote on it, but our proposal is different. And if you have tsubus and tsambous to go and negotiate with the Siomples and the Troikas, you negotiate the reduction of rates on the islands, since we have a primary surplus of six times the standard. We are reintroducing and tabling this amendment - and this is a challenge to the majority - for access by small and medium-sized enterprises to electronic transactions. We cannot rule out whole social groups. We have tabled the amendment on the inconsistency of small and medium-sized enterprises and are not listening to them being placed. This possibility has been removed, he says, because the troika has banned it. But if you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of a proud negotiation is this when you make reforms that will be incomplete, because reasonable things are not allowed by the troika? Mr President, it is certain that when the time comes for the amendments, because we have not been able to study them in the way they have been tabled, you are obliged to give us the floor for just a short time. Because we may vote or vote against, but at least our opinion cannot, for reasons linked to the way this House debates, forbid us to do so. For the time being, we welcome the withdrawal of Mr Nearly's amendment on the Olympic Committee. Nowadays many colleges have been committed by SYRIZA with the ones he denounced about the 2004 Olympics. The result of these is the amendment, now takes it back, see how it will be brought back, but the love is not hidden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and schoolchildren and four educational attendants from the 3rd High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, this is indeed an unacceptable situation with the amendments. These are amendments which have nothing to do with the bill, which is tabled at the last minute and, in any case, we think they should be withdrawn so that they can be debated on the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and quartet with this multi-brand plan are trying to satisfy the requirements of capital, both through changes in bankruptcy law, measures to speed up administrative proceedings, as well as with plastic money and the money laundering of undeclared funds. Your aim is to get out of the way of those who are not competitive, to regulate by bankruptcy law the consequences of the disaster - depreciation of part of capital - and of course you are once again regulating them for the benefit of capital - and to help in the accumulation of capital. You are implementing the objective of the memorandum, which is also the objective of capital, to speed up justice, you are granting tax amnesty with the legitimisation of undeclared funds even for offences such as money laundering, tax evasion, smuggling and others. By introducing plastic money you will lead to increased competition at the expense of the self-employed and strengthening the large business groups which, of course, are legally taxed, in a thousand ways, through the tax exemptions you have introduced. How are all these articles in the plan confirmed? See, for example, what happens to Article 23. It introduces the intra-judicial dispute settlement for claims arising from administrative contracts. What do we stand for? We have said so to the committee and to the plenary session on Friday. Firstly, the participation of judges is problematic in negotiating procedures, much more when it comes to requirements from the execution of administrative contracts. Why? Because the judge is involved in a procedure in which he is called upon to reconcile disputes between contractors and the State, while his powers are to resolve these disputes. Secondly, what can happen in these cases? The contractor, on the one hand, earn time through the negotiations and, on the other, strengthen his position through this possibility of compromise. What did the Minister tell us, in response to the objections of the Communist Party? That our claims are completely unfounded, unproven and unfounded. But see, for example, the metro of Thessaloniki, which I know very well, to see if the criticism of the JRC is correct. About a year ago, last October, the company that had the project, AEGEK, had demands from the public about 570 million euros. He stopped the execution of the project, fired the workers and appealed to the courts to claim what he believed owed it to the state. Of the 570m euros, only 96m euros were elected. That's what the court recognized as really. Then, of course, there was no possibility of an intra-judicial solution to the dispute. But what if there was one? There would be an attempt to reach an honest compromise in order to avoid the case being dealt with. This is a term that you have put for good in our everyday life, in our lives, and now we know exactly what it means. I'm talking about your honest compromise. I mean, you'd find it somewhere in the middle or a little over or a little down. In this case, this business group would take EUR 250 million over - down, instead of EUR 90 million, in the case of the case. This is because we say that contractors may benefit. Finally, the fifth paragraph of Article 23, including pending cases. Who are these, Minister? Which national contractors is this about? That is why we spoke in committee about a provision that smells like a complication. Judicial marks and fees are essentially one or the other, not to say that in some cases they are worse, i.e. they are being increased to the detriment of those who have brought to justice to find their point of view. Under Rule 34, half of the legal instrument for labour disputes is reduced - a regulation which is in a positive direction. But we support the fact that the judiciary on labour disputes should be completely abolished. Article 35 requires that the cases be postponed for the first time. It is unacceptable because it is unfairly burdened by the parties. Article 40 requires an unacceptably paradoxical EUR 50 for the first time to apply for the waiver of judges in criminal courts. Article 42 substantially increases the amounts charged to the parties to the Courts for the financing of the Court of Justice by means of the court and by the court. In Article 115-now 114, because 111 has been withdrawn, large fertiliser commercial companies are favoured, since they will have to be checked every five, instead of for three years, which has been to date. Article 116, is another piece of legislation that strengthens business groups in trade. It creates even more suffocating conditions for the self-employed in the retail trade and worsens the employment relationships of employees in the industry. With this amendment, the intermediate discount periods will last for a total of thirty days, from twenty days in force under the previous law, and shall be fixed at least two Sundays during which shops may remain open. So you are taking a step further, reducing Sundays that are holidays, as a measure of contributing to the economic development of the trade sector and its businesses. Will this help everyone, as the government claims?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u126	A little quiet, ladies! Mr President, this is where they've had wells everywhere. Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u127	The truth is that this is another measure to increase competition at the expense of the self-employed. Not only will there be no benefit for the self-employed, but with the exacerbation of competition, what will be done is for everyone to be displaced and more. The government, therefore, does not care for everyone but for the large business groups alone. It is clear from this that the interests of the self-employed and small traders are to fight together with the trade unions and other branches of workers who are now claiming and fighting for Sunday holidays, for the abolition of all the laws which liberate working hours for a fixed, daily working time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. As far as the amendment to reduce VAT on certain Aegean islands is concerned, first of all VAT is the most anti-grassy tax, which drastically reduces people's income. The reduction of VAT on the islands is a partly counterbalance for the problems and factors which make life on the islands more expensive, difficult and dangerous, what we call islands. What's SYRIZA doing now? After abolishing the reduced VAT on the islands, it now comes to only some Aegean islands for just one year - it is therefore a temporary measure - the reduced rates. It even makes an unacceptable correlation by linking the suspension of VAT to the islands affected by the refugee crisis. In other words, it is a matter of government extortion in order to make the islands plundered by thousands of refugees who are victims of imperialist interventions and wars. We will vote for it, but we call on the people of the islands to claim the abolition of VAT on wide-ranging people's consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. We are moving on with Mr. Kammenos, a special speaker of the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have debated this bill for a long time and in great detail, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, how much more is the Ministry of Finance in relation to the use and tax-free use of tax evasion, but also the undoing, as the explanatory statement says, in relation to the use of plastic money? The Independent Greeks have had a creative, I think, recommendation all these days. We welcome any corrections and any improvements made by this legislation to certain articles which I do not need to mention. I shall start by referring to today's amendments, which I consider to be extremely positive on the part of the Ministry of Sports. I have to say here that I have been consulted with the Minister, Mr Vassiliou. A week ago we had a big conversation. He has analysed all the issues as he has received from Mr Kontonis and the joint governance, and we have decided, for the reasons which are, of course, explained in the amendments, that these changes must now be made without any pressure. It is not bad that they are coming now, because there are some changes within the Ministry of Sport which must be made directly for good reasons, so we support them all. With regard to the basic amendment, which was also a part of a political problem in the last few days for VAT on the islands and the benefits of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, it is something that we find absolutely positive. I think that we must support this decision unanimously, because the incentive given to the Government and the Government is now passing on to the inhabitants of the islands, who have without their responsibility, but who have been managing a huge crisis over the last two years. It is Parliament's responsibility and how much more so for the Greek Government to ease the operating costs of the people who live and operate from and to these islands, for it to cheapen or not to increase the cost of living, for the household to have money to live and serve its needs, but also for any other activity it needs, so I think it is very positive. I think that the message we are going through at the moment is very positive, not only to the Greek people, but is an extremely positive message of harmony and logic, which we are also going through to the lenders and to the institutions, who deliberately ran to condemn the Greek Government's move. Their attitude, of course, two days later, turned into something "yes you had the right, but...". It was divided into two, and Europe in relation to the government's decision to grant pensioners the allowance and not to increase, in essence to reduce VAT on the remote islands that accept migrants. So I believe that 'yes' is extremely important and gives a very important message both inside and abroad. Let us keep this message for the rest, which will come in the next few days at the end of the evaluation, and from there on, filming, with the good of the Greek economy. I'd like to say something I've read in the last few days. I will say this because it concerns a number of measures that currently have to do with the economy, but also because it is running these days and the negotiation of the evaluation. The news of the day, then, is that Mrs Lagard, as I have said in many other speeches, was convicted of negligence as Minister of Finance, because she did not appeal and did not attend the French State against the arbitration with Mr Bernard Tapie for EUR 285 million, and this caused a loss for the French State of EUR 285 million. Mrs Lagard's negligence is very important to me to note politically. And because it will meet - and you will all know - these days the International Monetary Fund Board, as I have said on other occasions, is likely not to be Mrs Lagard or not to continue to be a director of the International Monetary Fund. This will probably change the balances, towards the positive or negative, and we will see that and we will be judged by the new faces. It's just that we've got to keep up. And among us we may say what we want, but we must go out with one voice, because we will not know who we will be dealing with in the negotiations and in the closure of the assessment and the role of the International Monetary Fund the next day, if it is not Mrs Lagard, who - well or badly - knows it very well and we know who we are negotiating with. While a new person will be unpredictable and we should all pay attention to what we say and what we think, until we see if what I say is done. From there on, the entire bill of the Ministry of Finance and the amendments are positive. We are voting in favour and I have explained why. We should pay particular attention to the fact that the Greek market is not ready to go horizontally and we know it - and I thank the Minister who explained it to me - while bringing plastic money everywhere to avoid tax evasion, to collect VAT. I am making a small parentheses here: I think you have seen the figures, that VAT revenues have increased by EUR 1 billion, because of the use of plastic money, because VAT is now being reimbursed. Let me remind you that we are losing about EUR 6 billion a year from VAT and with the use of plastic money, we hope to take a large part of this, certainly not all, so that we can help our parallel revenues for the 2018 budget. But there are two issues here, which I will raise once again in plenary and in this speech. One is that with Article 69 we impose on all businesses at night to send the data to the General Secretariat of Information Systems, by closing their store, fund or electronic systems. Because in the market at the moment there are no electronic systems, cash registers and cash registers that manage the funds for sending the data on line, almost 100 thousand machines or almost 40% of them do not have that possibility, so they will be forced to do it manually, getting into a form at the General Secretariat. That's hard for every storekeeper to do at night. I imagine everyone will be addressing their accountants, but imagine the accountants every night to have to do ten, twenty, fifty, a hundred, a thousand records, depending on how many shops each man has every night for three hundred and sixty five days a year. He'll bring a huge workload to the accountants. And there we should be careful whether it is wrong or negligent or if it is forgotten that a shop is going to pass, it will be responsible for not fulfilling an obligation to the public. So we should be careful not to punish anyone when they are not responsible. And I suggested we bring in horizontally as soon as possible latest technology cash engines. There are Greek factories. They're cheap, make 300 euros one. We must avoid these mistakes and give them a voucher, which will also give them a specific - if you want - incentive, so that we do not charge them money to change their system, as long as the public - and it does - bears this legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. Thank you very much. From there on, with regard to the bankruptcy and the bill of Mr. Kontonis, two are the observations I have to make. I've told them to all my suggestions. The first and most important of all has to do with the definition of the natural person and who we put into bankruptcy, whether it's a natural person or not it's not a capital company. And it must be a capital company. And when we call a capital company, we mean the company that has partners, like anonymity, homogeneity, or limited liability company. And from the bankruptcys of Greece - I will leave the table for the Minutes, for everyone to see, are elements of ELSTAT - 55% - over half - comes from anonymised, homogeneous and RES companies, and this 55% of our companies do not put this in the bill for the second chance, which we must put in. I will also leave the European directive with notes on what is happening in Europe. Because the second opportunity has to do, firstly, with a purely humanitarian purpose, a humanitarian reason, we must give the officials and managers a second chance to manage their company and not to have young unemployed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. Secondly, we should give the businessmen a second chance to help increase the Gross National Product to bring growth. In closing the companies, creating unemployed, almost illegally, i.e. not taking them into the bankruptcy procedure, nobody wins anything but loses the Greek public. And for the record, for 55% of the companies that we do not have in the bankruptcy procedure, the amount that we lose on average per year is over EUR 300 million - is the average time of these companies - and on average more than seven hundred employees will lose their jobs per year if these companies do not enter the second chance. The second part, which is also important, is the definition of 'dog'. As we have said, "dog" for the public and for our lawyers may be, on the one hand, a cheque which has no impact, but, at the same time as we judge the bankruptcy procedure, we give the second chance, defining someone, as is terminology, "as is known", that he went bankrupt without a fraud, we cannot at the same time say to him "have a leap because you issued a cheque that had no impact". The court should judge the deceit, not the law. And if the court finds that there is no fraud, that is, that the cheque was given without deceit, and we have judged him to be bankrupt, then enter the second chance, so that his company can function and not be unemployed. I submit both these documents for the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too. Mr Amyras has the floor, a special speaker of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine we are all aware that tonight is not a debate on the draft oil law, 'plastic' money and so on, but we are present at a general meeting on the amendments. So many last-minute ministerial amendments on such serious issues should at least be made by you Members of the ruling majority to raise objections. For example, you have brought us an amendment, which I am willing to hear from you, Mr President, as I see you are responding to some of the questions. I doubt whether you've read them or taken them. See, for example: Pharmaceutical legislation, twenty-five-page amendment. Is that possible? Inside, there are too many things going on. Have you got some shit on what's going on? Can I tell you about the other amendment, the simple one, as it seems, on the moves of the Minister for Migration Policy? What's in it? It changes and redefines the competent authorities for issuing residence permits for citizens of third countries in Greece. And be careful, she is so malicious, so sloppy, so shallow and "holes" that, for example, listen to what she contains: In a provision of this amendment - law I will say - the bodies responsible for issuing a third-person residence permit in the country are the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary-General. In other words, what does this amendment say to us? That the institutions, which will issue the licences by ministerial decision of another Minister, the Minister for Migration Policy, are defined. Do we understand that? There are also questions of the legality of the decisions that will be taken on the basis of this amendment, which will come a little while before today's sitting begins and includes many things that are contradictory. Withdrawal of this amendment too, let us not discuss it. Can I tell you about the other amendment to the oil market that reorganizes it? It changes issues in relation to the required storage areas. Ladies and gentlemen, where are they taking the warehouses? Does it raise them or minimize them? You know? How do you know? We therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment as well. Didn't we hear people about this? Do you know that it also changes the licensing categories of those companies that can smuggle oil? Are we going crazy? And does it bring it as an amendment to the glue glue? What's here? Spray, wipe, are you done? So I don't want to come to the other EOT amendment. A few months ago we also voted with you as Potami, the new public procurement law, which was supposed to put an end to this festival and the party of direct awards? Now why are you bringing us exceptionally, in breach of the fact that the EOT can sign direct awards for its advertising? But is that possible? Are you telling us that it's an extraordinary cost of advertising the country through the EOT? Do we not know that every summer and every winter, respectively, we have advertising expenditure for the time we serve? So, what are we waiting for? Don't we know when summer's coming? Do we not know that from now on we have to design and that the EOT will go ahead with advertising funds? Why is this an extraordinary cost? Greece sometimes comes to the summer, and sometimes it doesn't come? If you really want to show that with the amendments you do not make toys, accept the amendment of the Democratic Incorporation, which we will support for the incompatibility of business accounts, as well as the possibility for our disabled fellow citizens to be able to infiltrate the electronic services of plastic money and serve in an electronic way correctly, easily and economically. Why do you not accept these amendments? We tell you that you must withdraw all the amendments. It is the last minute, it is the foot, it has very serious issues and you will be responsible, if you go ahead and go on, the vote you - and tomorrow who knows what it has to get out of the hat and what rabbits - or else you will show that you take into account parliamentaryism, the principles of good legislature and withdraw them and bring them back to tomorrow, in other bills and put them down to debate. The'star', of course, of the night on the amendments, is the amendment to suspend the increase in VAT. I was listening to my colleague from a government majority talking about a reduction in VAT! Well, are you going to drive us crazy? Didn't you decide to increase VAT on the islands? We then voted against this increase. Now you come and say: Islanders and islands, we are here for you. We're reducing your VAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u132	We're freezing the increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u133	But don't let him down! You raised him. And now you're telling us you won't raise him anymore. Let me not talk about the rest of the islands. Are we going to say anything about the Cyclades? Are we going to say anything about Skyros? For Sikino? About Anafi? What do we say on the river? So we in Potami have said: islanders, who have, of course, experienced the refugee wave, can also be strengthened, but the inhabitants of the border regions of the continent, too, can also be supported. Did we forget her? In Evros and Dumotich every day six hundred immigrants and refugees cross the Evros border. Do you understand that? Six hundred people a day! Isn't that where companies suffer? Isn't tourism suffering in Evros? Potami has submitted seven costly concrete proposals to strengthen, as I have told you, the islands and the inhabitants of the continental border regions by the attack and the pressure on the refugee question. We have proposed seven measures, which are all costing you, with the suspension of the increase in VAT, which was costed at EUR 50 million, to EUR 100 million. What are these measures? Apart from maintaining reduced rates of VAT in the areas I told you, it is a suspension of the imposition of a night's charge on hotels and rooms. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, I remind you that you have voted for an end per night in hotels and rooms. You keep that. We have proposed that you re-establish the regulation of the hundred-dollar system for debts to taxi and insurance funds and for those who have lost it once. We have told you here, in Parliament, to regulate the debts of businesses and households to PPC and the municipalities in these areas I have told you. We are also proposing a 50% reduction in HPAI for immovable property, a reduction in employers' contributions by 50% for the tourist season, while committing entrepreneurs to maintaining their own jobs, at least in relation to the previous tourist season. In addition, our last proposal to relieve people under pressure on the refugee question is to reduce the level of unemployment benefit from one hundred to eighty days. These are the proposals from the river, ladies and gentlemen. If the government wanted to, it could control them, cost them to check if that is the case - which is the case - and then look to find these 50 million euros to strengthen the people who are tested in the islands and the border regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will, however, tell me that you have an appeal to form, to make special stamps, sectoral secretaries, additional secretaries, 100 or so to the number, if I am not mistaken - rather than to sit down and make a cut, to save expenditure, and to put another priority on your choices and decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end my speech, because time is running out of hand with the issue of casinos. What about the casinos? Do we have a casino war? Do we have the casinosters? I have read - and I shall submit it in the Minutes - the interview of the former head of the Committee on the Control and Surveillance of Games, Mr Antonis Stergiotis, in Parapolitika.gr. What did the former head of the commission say? Points and monsters! I would remind you that it is the Rules of Procedure that the committee which changed in November to regulate toys, casinos and so on. He left it all free. The Committee shall be appointed by the Government and shall have nine members. It's not an independent authority, don't confuse them. It's a hell of a casino in the country. There will no longer be a geographical distance between small casinos, nor a limit on how much one can play, nor even give his name. It says, therefore, Mr Stergiotis: 'This regulation is because the OPAP asked for 100 and the committee gave him 200. They met demands that had not even been made and we became the Cuban of Batista in 1959." So that's what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u134	Finish, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a serious matter. Also, the current chairman of the committee, Evangelos Kararigoriou, while others at first, has suddenly seen the truth and supports exactly the opposite of what he had voted on in the first term. I am presenting the revelations - fire, and I hope we have an answer from the ministers. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in my previous speech, we are positive on the issues of bankruptcy. As far as the amendments are concerned, I told you to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u136	There's another five here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u137	They're sharing us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u138	There's another five here, and they're sharing them with us now? Is that possible? Is that a way to legislate? Does the rapporteurs of the parties go up to place them on the amendments, on the main body of the bill, and will you bring us other amendments? What can I say? I'm filing the guns. I'm saying you beat us. Congratulations, you are the government of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u139	The special speaker of the Centro-Centro-Centro-Cavadelas Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be a little hypotonic today because I am a little indisposed, although I am very upset. You'll forgive me. The government is misusing the urgency procedure, plus that it brings last minute amendments. At the time I got up on the Step to talk, five more amendments came. What can I say when I don't know exactly what the people of the conflict were inspired by? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] They have brought amendments - those I have been able to see - on medicines, no twenty-five pages, on residence for foreigners, on mineral oils. EOT now has the right to spoil money as he likes and give it where he wants. Each of these amendments could be a separate bill. In any case, we are dealing with such serious issues, such as the fundamental change in the bankruptcy code, effective interference in administrative justice procedures, the adjustment of the famous cost of judiciary by rationalising the costs of offenses and fees, the redefining of the state's attitude to those who will voluntarily reveal - who are they? - their undeclared income. You have so many lists in your hands - Lagard list and others - and you expect people to come and tell you "I, you know, I took the money and I have it there" - if possible! - and if you're imposing such tough measures? Make a reasonable understanding to bring their money. Now that's how you'll make them even more opposing to this thought. You impose plastic money and electronic transactions on everyone. Sounds good. You are still considering the license of the new casino within the urban web. But that is the right - not to name, I do not want, in any case - to work on the Greek casino now. The road is straight from Varkiza, from Athens and everywhere. They're going to take their walk and they're all going there. And what's going on? And you withdrew Article 111 to relocate Parnitha's casino to make it more competitive. Why would that lunatic climb to the snowy mountains when the casino's next to it and it's even more modern and new? And hundreds of employees stay on the street. At least you made sure for them to put a footnote that it's compulsory for the new casino first to absorb the old ones and then go to new ones? No, and you're a left government! Fifty cropies, what are they gonna do? Where will they get a job? How will they feed their families? Put a footnote that at least it's gonna be absorbed first, because it's gonna close Parnitha's casino. Don't think so. It'll be a nice hotel, like all that's in Greece that's closed. You'll sell it and beer, and it'll end. All of this is the content of three fundamental bills, which are irrelevant to each other. There is no adequate justification. I do not see any adequate justification. You unite them and present them as an emergency, and they must be signed and terminated overnight. You continue to legislate and commit crime, because crime is this. You're not concerned with dialogue. You want this to end. You did it as late as you could to get the last minute's signatures down, without getting any news of what we're voting on. There's also a matter with the bankruptcy code. You're moving on to a reform of the bankruptcy code. There are three axes. One axis is described in the explanatory statement as follows: The arrangements seek to provide the essential opportunity to re-activate the honest entrepreneur, despite all his well-being efforts. They all sounded. Who's the honest and the dishonorable? You are also putting a new English term, the 'fresh start', to make it a 'comme il faut'. You claim, therefore, that you are addressing the honest, who have listened to them and you will restore them. Who will be restored? Will some of your people be restored, the 'good children'! You don't tell us who the honest and who the dishonest are. Who's the dishonorable? The blackmailer prefers to feed his family than to pay other obligations? Don't you know that you've brought the capital controls and you can't do anything or plan? Everything's right now, right now, la la. What can I say about that? I don't have anything to say. But I have the impression that this part of your bill is to make some of your people comfortable. You're closing their eyes now that we're likely to have elections - I suspect elections - that "you guys, who are ours, help now, back up, and we'll take care of you later with this law"! I say this because you are neither precise nor explanatory to who these unfortunate people are. There's Mr. Tsakalotou's lottery! I say it and I laugh. Together with this lottery - enter into another article below, in the fifth part - it is evident that the government is "game government" now, casino from here, lotteries from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u141	Is it the government of gambling or do you deal with gambling?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u142	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Cavadela, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u143	In any case, co-government is in favor of gambling from what I understand. I speak very nicely. I could tell you much worse words, what you said about the previous ones from you. I'm not saying these things. But you're talking one about lotteries, one about casinos, casinos here, casinos there. People don't have to eat. Who's going to the casino? Those who steal from here and there. Who's going to the casino, gentlemen? Anyway, this can be developmental too, casino and gambling! I have heard something about "fruits". I have heard that it is expected that you will also bring us a law on fruits within the next few days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not going to answer that question, Mr President. So give me one more minute. Still, we'll agree somewhere. We will agree on justice. Definitely need procedures shorter. It is also a Memorandum of Understanding. But here you are ruining it again, because you could accept some of what we are proposing. We are proposing to strengthen the human resources of our courts with experts, with educational programmes. Our judges are experienced. But because the world is moving on, technology and it is moving on, it needs better planning. We have given it to you in detail in the committees that we have taken part. In Article 6 we would like to point out that you need to consider more seriously the extension of the definition as an expert on a class accountant, other than for natural persons, and for those of small and micro-enterprises. In the third part of the Multi-Project and in particular in Articles 33 to 44, the leadership of the Ministry of Justice claims that it attempts to rationalise the costs of the functioning of justice. It is true that the cost of running the courts is too high, as it is a slow system of judiciary and is even more expensive because some cases are late to end, eight and ten years. There is also Article 33, where you request the abolition of the judiciary in recognizing actions. And there is also a proposed reform in Article 34 of the judiciary in the voting for labour disputes. That's where there shouldn't be a sign. What do you expect of the poor and the unemployed, the man who has lost his rights, to pay over? There is another measure, the paradox of deferral, which is collective against us. You make some adjustments: for example, in Article 40 there is a paradox today 100 euros and you will take it to 70 euros. Great adjustment, intelligent all that effort. There is also a paradox of political action which, from 50 euros, has become a 40 euro, i.e. a barracks, as if everyone were going to the courts every day, as if this 10 euro difference were being saved. It's a rough bill, which is why you're always bringing us amendments. By the time I go home, there'll be another five to six, I guess. Therefore, with regard to transparency and proper information for the citizen, we are dealing here with a positive view - Article 43 I mean both paragraphs 2 and 3 - to make public, at least on the Internet, and presenting the detailed costs of the relevant fees and offenders on a case-by-case basis, so as to have a clear picture of someone starting a procedure, if they can go ahead further. I have more to tell you, but my time is over. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Mr Vitsats will now have the floor to support an amendment. The Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Dannelis, will then be given the floor, and we will start with the list of speakers. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u145	I think I am expressing the feelings of all the members of the Greek Parliament expressing our disgrace over the murderous attack on the Russian Ambassador a while ago in Ankara. And that's why I'm saying "killer attack", because man was murdered, it ended up. I would like to express our support for both the Russian people's friend and their government. One is that. The second is that I would like to say that we often say things not to face a usual parliamentary practice, which we agree to change - and I agree to change it - but we do not have to "wrap it" before they are done. For example, we all know that for 15 days the House will not legislate. I would like to remind you that in 2014 by a government which had basically fallen, typically, had not fallen, submitted to a bill between - if I remember correctly - the two votes for the President of the Republic, fifty-five amendments. So, a lot of noise to make noise. I'm not making a setback. I'm saying we're getting too much of a deal about one thing that's been done and we're going to agree to change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u146	I mean, we're going for elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u147	Look, with regard to this issue, because I want an amendment to support, I fear that it will come in 2019, the election will take place and the Civilian Opposition Party, as a Dedicated Opposition, will call for elections to be resumed by custom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u148	Which you do not intend to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u149	We shall now proceed to the amendment. It is a multitude of amendments, in the sense not of substance, since the signatories quickly agreed, that is to say, but the legal sections had to be agreed to so that the legal wording, the formal wording, can be precise so that once it has been published, it can function. It's about the following things. The first is that we give three months of tax and insurance information to the Hellenic Defence Systems and three months of tax information on the sale of property. At the same time, we have legislative improvements to this amendment, which I must mention and I shall be tabling. The first doesn't matter, it's just that the above company becomes Greek Amyndic Systems. The second one says that from the 7% withdrew, revenues, HIS will first be paid. And the third and fourth is the suspension of the administrative and enforceable measures against movable and immovable property of the public limited company and the interim measures, so that the commitments existing in accounts can be lifted. Things at least, as they are at the moment, show that there will be money too soon to pay the workers and start the normal operation of the company. The last article is the usual one, namely - I do not remember, perhaps someone can remind me, I think it is almost a decade ago - we are renewing for a year the ability of the Hellenic Aerospace Company not to produce tax and insurance information in the tenders. I think it's the tenth time. Now for the NSAs one more word. On 21st of the month, if I am not mistaken tomorrow, there is the general assembly that will legalise the law that we passed in the summer, capitalisation, so this issue of tax and insurance information may leave us time for a long time. Finally, I would like to say that we support the amendment by the Members of Parliament, Mr Mada, Mr Karayannis, Mr Stefou and Mr Jufi. It is an amendment that concerns a three-month period of insurance and tax information on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u150	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt. It is good for this House as well to mention the number of amendments, both general and specific, if it is easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u151	Excuse me. The first amendment is the general number 850 and specific 82 for the Ministry's amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u152	This is the ministerial. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u153	Yeah. And there is also the amendment, with a general number of 845 and a special 77, giving three months of tax and insurance information. This is specifically in order to remove any doubt on the part of the services in order to proceed, because, as you know, the "metal-industrial continent" has entered, without the contract being signed, in a special liquidation in operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u154	Mr Contonis asked for the floor for some legislative improvements. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. We have produced a document containing all legislative improvements and I would ask for it to be distributed. Also, the declaration on the withdrawal of Article 56a. Mr President, I also want two amendments from the Ministry of Justice which I do not think are irrelevant. It's barely the Ministry of Justice and it's absolutely relevant. One is related to the Banking Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u156	What is it, Minister? With their numbers, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u157	It is the one mentioned in the Banking Code that has a general number of 848. On the basis of this amendment, the guarantor who is now shown to be a relative of first or second grades to the first debtor follows the debt of the first debtor, without the consent of the creditor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u158	The second amendment - and that of the Ministry of Justice - refers to the Code of Civil Procedure. It had been omitted in the last amendments to identify the territorial jurisdiction of the courts - this was added - and it caused most of the problems. The competent authority responsible for the implementation of the adoption shall be each single court of first instance in the territory of the Member State concerned. These two amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u159	Minister, please, if it's easy for the last one you've just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u160	The second amendment is the general number 836.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u161	Good. Thank you. Mrs Koudoura, you have also asked for the floor for the amendment you have tabled. Here, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much. It is the amendment with a general number of 844 and a special 76, where only a paragraph 10 is added to Article 4 of Law 3270/2004. The reason for this is with regard to the EOT, the demand for an immediate and urgent adaptation to the strategy for the promotion of the Greek tourist product, the need for communication management of crises affecting tourist flows, especially now, at the beginning of the year, but also the way in which the national product will be promoted through modern technical methods, such as the Internet, on which we are relying, because it is too cheap. It is of course also about reducing public spending and creating the possibility for the EOT to be advertised through digital means, but also at a small cost. Given that the administration needs to be adapted in time to the provisions and prepare the country's visibility, so that we can get out in January, we give this possibility of three months so that we can and guarantee the public interest - that is the most important one - but also that we can, at this time, implement the most important reports that will have been taken out in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u163	Good. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u165	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u166	Can we ask the Minister about the amendment some specific things, since she supported it or not? How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u167	What exactly do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u168	I want to ask the following question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Amyras, we're delaying the process. Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u170	Not a minute. I'll be brief. Madam Secretary, you have told us that yes, it needs direct commissions from the EOT. I will understand it when there are crisis situations, such as, for example, something is happening and our country is being discredited by tourists. For national policy, as you said, to promote Greek tourism, why should this be done by direct awards rather than by the competitive process? The reports you refer to, as in February and March and so on, are international reports that have been made for years. We know when it happens. Why are we going to be advertised with direct entrustments rather than competitive procedures so that the cost falls and there are no suspicions and shadows? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u171	Madam Minister, you obviously want to reply. Please be brief. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u172	It is not just about reports. It's about the Internet. You can't run a competition to get the google. Google is one. You can't run a competition to get out on twitter. The twitter is one. EOT has always done this and has not been able to adapt to getting the money that will come in 2017 to, if you want, a spec, a public contest that will all come in. The google, twitter, yahoo are specific, individual products through which all years the EOT was advertised. You can't run a competition to get the google. It's so simple. This process takes three months, to be able to adapt to enter the competitive process, to spec out with the money that comes in 2017. We have very little money today, which is 600,000 euros, and we need to get out in January - February and directly advertise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u173	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u174	The Prime Minister has promised us 20 million that will come to a competition with a spec for 2017-2018, but this money will not come before February. The money we have is very little. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman from POTTAMI, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, we share the disgrace expressed by Minister Vitsas on the murder of the Russian Ambassador in Ankara. The escalation, ladies and gentlemen, of tension in Turkey is becoming increasingly concerned with us and obviously imposes wisdom, imposes coolness, understanding and harmony. I shall refer to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, islands in any case create further difficulties and problems in the development process in relation to the mainland. The excessive burden on the islands on the front line of refugees and migrants imposes special protection measures. The amendment that freezes VAT for a year on these islands is obviously in the right direction, even though it is late. And I say late, because we in Potami have been in the autumn - and repeatedly since then - have tabled an integrated proposal to tackle the economic disaster, which has been taking place in these island regions and the need to take planned measures. Because the burden on the vast influx of immigrants and refugees, together with the consequent collapse of tourism revenues, which was the main source of income, led to an explosive mixture that dynamises social cohesion and prosperity. We have then proposed - and the government can see them again today - firstly, maintaining reduced rates of VAT on the islands as they are. Second, suspension of the imposition of a night's charge on hotels and rooms, Minister of Tourism. Thirdly, resetting the hundred-dollar arrangement for debts to tax and insurance funds. Fourthly, the introduction of corporate and household debt arrangements to PPC and municipalities. Fifth, a 50% reduction of the ISPA for property with professional use. Sixth, a 50% reduction in employers' contributions for the tourist season, while committing entrepreneurs to the maintenance of jobs. Seventhly, a reduction in the level of unemployment benefit in eighty of the hundred days. The total financial cost of these measures could - and it was worth it - be addressed, be covered by a reduction in unnecessary public spending, which you also agree to. Plastic money: Any provision, ladies and gentlemen, which helps to strengthen the culture of the use of plastic money in the first place, can only be found in agreement. This is because the use of electronic payments helps to combat tax evasion and restricts the loss of VAT revenue. There is no doubt that there is a close connection between the use of electronic payments and tax evasion. If the use of plastic money reaches Greece the levels of the European Union average, that is, seventy-six times, and not seven times a year, which is the Greek reality, VAT loss will decrease from 34% to 19% of GDP. However, you only encourage employees and pensioners who ensure tax-free use of cards. However, the really shallow, it would be to motivate other social groups, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, which many now have incomes under tax, as well as doctors, lawyers, businessmen, and why not even those who seem to have no income, but who even consume small opportunities. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we should ensure and introduce the irreversible account for businesses. Negotiate with the lenders who insist and - we know that - they create deadlocks in this negotiation. You are insisting and you will have all this Parliament. It is not possible for the businessman to fight for the self-evident expenses of his business, which must continue to function independently of the dues he has to the State or elsewhere. The payroll of the company's employees, however small it may be, must be guaranteed for suppliers, because, unfortunately, if the unpaid account for business is not guaranteed, the same measure that you bring self-sufficiently cancels. It must be realised that, if we do not accompany the correct measure of the generalised use of plastic money with the irresponsible business account, the majority of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are at risk. In order to speed up justice, the river motto is summarized in the phrase 'justice must be blind, but must be quick'. Procedures for the award of justice and, in particular, administrative justice in our country - we are talking about it - are desperately slow in their award, and this is certainly not a feature of a European favoured state, as the Greeks want and should be. For which rule of law can we talk, when any administrative dispute must be resolved in the courts over the next five years, eight years or I do not know how much, when the excessive number of administrative cases and the institutional shortcomings themselves are obstacles which make justice difficult and make it ineffective. On the other hand, the way the Greek courts operate is often mentioned as one of the serious counter-incentives for investments. Multiple deferrals in the decisions of administrative justice to date, normally extended for long periods, deprive the State of any other revenue from customs duties, taxes, fines, etc. Airbnb is without doubt a new product that has emerged from extensive internet use. However, we should not deal with it under the logic of 'take it or have it it'. Obviously, it has to be adjusted. Rules are required. The graduation of each individual case for rationalization and, of course, not all regions of the country are equivalent tourists. There are islands with huge investment in hosting infrastructures and they must be protected. On the other hand, there are mountainous, disadvantaged or isolated island areas where every tourist activity even via Airbnb should be strengthened. These areas must be included in the tourist map in every way. For small distillers it is known that one of the most distorting markets is the purchase of distillates: tick, raccoon, tick. Years, in the name of protecting the traditional way of producing and supporting one of the few economic activities that takes place in isolated rural areas of Greece, the "birthdays", an extremely problematic flourishing activity is taking place. It is clear that spectacular producers in the area, taking advantage of and covered by the two-day legal framework, produce huge quantities which are marketed. A further category of illegal producers importing alcohol from neighbouring countries - mainly from Turkey, Albania, Bulgaria - is acting as a result of spirits of dubious quality at best or dangerous to public health in the worst case. This situation has two negative consequences, of course, for the loss of public revenue: the destruction of legal producers because of unfair competition, but also the exploitation and deception of consumers. The passions of this market have not been dealt with by any government to date, even though the case has repeatedly dealt with the European Commission, with our country awaiting the imposition of very high fines which, if any, are ringing at the door. With this bill we could have an opportunity to reorganise this sector, which is a constant demand for all legal distillers, both the two-day and the industrialised producers. We have said so on another occasion, that is, you have just arrested, ladies and gentlemen, the true idea of excise duty on wine. We told you then to take care, because you will transfer the pathogens that are oppressing the distillery market to a highly dynamic and promising sector of the Greek economy, the winery. You didn't hear us and - oh of the miracle! - that happened too fast. Immediately then, you need to correct the pathogenesity and the dilutive effect of the excise duty on winemaking, which did not bring anything to the public funds, as it proved very quickly, removing this disastrous and inefficient tax before the situation became irreversible for this dynamic sector. I'm hanging up with the last time. In this way, I think we are not looking for honour in Parliament. It is unacceptable how we legislate and dismantle parliamentaryism. I accept what Mr Vitsas said before, that there are needs which must be met quickly. We have said this repeatedly: Let us bring a bill of pasparatism, with all the loose ends that we have to close before the holidays are dealt with at a separate meeting, tomorrow, when we finish tomorrow's bill. Amendments are now being tabled. Until ten minutes ago we had tabled amendments. We will not even have time to read them, not to understand where they are mentioned. If we cannot meet on Thursday for any reason, why do the amendments not come to tomorrow's - even - bill, so that we can read them at night? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not helping us to support amendments that we could support. In this way, unfortunately, we are unable to monitor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u177	Before we begin the list of speakers, there will be some consultation with the House. The Bureau's proposal - if the House approves it - is as follows: As you know, they are registered forty-eight Members. On the basis of the eight-minute codecision procedure, it will take us about 02.30, with strict observance of the eight-minute term, without taking into account the speeches made - and rightly - Parliament, the Ministers, or the Ministers, to support the amendments. So you know we can get to 3:00 ́-04.00 ́. Allow me to make a proposal. If you accept it, fine. Lower time from eight minutes to six minutes. However, after the first ten, because I understand that there are colleagues who have organised their speech in about eight minutes. If you agree, we'll go to six minutes after the first ten. Does the House agree or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u178	In five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u179	Do you want the first speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u180	For everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u181	Ama, you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u182	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u183	Let's go tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u184	Tomorrow? What tomorrow? Are we going to vote now? Let's start, so we don't eat our time. The first speaker is Ms Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a little comment on the legislative procedure. We, as SYRIZA, are in favour of and above all of respecting not only the Rules of Parliament but also the Constitution in the legislative process. As a party of Officerial Opposition and as a smaller party, we have been miserable by the way we legislated so far. However, there is a difference here, ladies and gentlemen. The legislation which comes to Parliament, first of all, is drawn up in the Ministry by the Ministry's Legislative Committee. They are subject to long-term consultation as a rule, the remarks are incorporated and, while they should normally be brought to the House and discussed in due course, they will then be subject to negotiation with the lenders. That's where you know there's a delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u186	We are talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u187	We are talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u188	Please leave the speaker alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u189	I will also tell you about the amendments. We then come here to always legislate last minute. For amendments we clearly do not agree, but it is a very small percentage compared with what has been done before. And, as a rule, they're urgent cases. I personally support the observance of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and of the Constitution, which is of course being observed at the moment and is not being circumvented anywhere. The procedure we have today - and unfortunately, it is often seen - is a procedure which contains a shortcut of deadlines not on the substance of the meetings and opinions. The bill under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, is another demonstration of SYRIZA's respect for its announcements in the September 2015 elections. We are applying the loan agreement in full and within the budget, and not only are we trying to relocate the country. As is done with the re-establishment of the social state that was first - first - by the policies of austerity, which we have negotiated hard, we have achieved an increase in spending on weak social groups, while creating a mechanism that is transparent and functional, so that they can enjoy the social care they really need, as a constitutional right, and not through the glimpse of electoral clientele. Like the armoring of the public health system that was received collapsible. Like laws for the selection of officials in public administration, compulsory electronic handling of documents and much more. So with the present draft law. It was designed, put into consultation, negotiated with the lenders and it does not only work as the term of a loan agreement. For the amendments to the bankruptcy code, the country's difficult economic situation and the decisive role of bankruptcy law in the functioning of the economy, as well as the need for further harmonisation of bankruptcy law with most European Union countries' law. In these directions, provision is made for the rapid development of the bankruptcy procedure and, if the company can be saved, it is quickly part of the viability mechanism. If not, the loose ends are quickly cleared so as to give a second chance to the one who failed without treacherousness. Measures shall be taken to speed up administrative proceedings. Here I would like to take note of the positive opinion of the Association of Administrative Judges at the hearing of bodies, which, in fact, participated with their representatives in the Legislative Committee. But also the opinion of the other judicial associations at the hearing. Let me refer to the provision of Article 17, according to which criminal judgments, whether criminal or criminal, now criminal or criminal, or proprietors who decide not to be charged, commit to the administrative court. I should also like to refer to Article 23, which introduces the intra-judicial compromise settlement of substantive disputes. It also contributes to speeding up trial and, above all, to the formation of a culture of compromise settlement of disputes. The Statute of the Judge-Rapporteur shall be introduced and a rapid decision shall be taken on cases for which a decision to suspend execution has been taken in order to ensure that these cases do not be overdue by interim decisions. I referred to the positive opinion of the Administrative Judges. After all, it is important to rationalise judicial fees and offenders. Here I note that the provision of Article 70 of Law No 3994/2011, which laid down a judicial mark and a recognition order, and combined with doubling at the time of the judiciary, was generally problematic and had been judged by many courts as unconstitutional. The reduction in general of offenders facilitates access to judicial protection, justice and the introduction of an amount in the case of deferrals and the exception of the judge, supports the resources of the Court of Justice Fund and strengthens access to justice for the impossible citizens because it strengthens the legal aid programme. I should like to welcome the provision of Article 52 which establishes the participation of lawyers in the Architectures of trade unions. I would remind you that under Article 11 of Law No 1264/1982, exclusively, this function was entrusted to the judicial officers. I should like to draw attention to the unsatisfactory opposition of the Association of Judges to this matter, but also to the absence of the Athens Bar Association, which has done so on several occasions, which, as President of the Assembly of the Bar Associations, had to be at the hearing of the bodies. Let me say, on the road, that the establishment of an office for the reception of complaints headed by the prosecutor, as well as Article 98 which extends the limitation of specific cases, shows the clear front of the anti-corruption government, while the formulation of a regulatory framework for the control of short-term rental property, whether it is carried out through an electronic platform or via the Internet as provided for in Article 113 of the draft law, faces the globe that operates as a brake on the ever-increasing substitution rate of legal accommodation from illegally. One final comment I shall make on the amendment that suspends the increase in VAT on the islands affected by the refugee crisis. I just want to say that at the time the Prime Minister gave the battle not only to support the low-pensioners, but also to the remote islands to claim the self-evident - that is, while respecting the agreed antennas to have the right to act as an independent state, to place a small part of the overcrowd - the New Democracy, through its leader, has been given the toughest voices in Europe. That's what he says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost the booze here. New amendments are coming. Just now the Minister of Justice has mentioned the legislative improvements and you are distributing a corrigendum to legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u192	No, it's not like that. They're legal, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u193	We'll see, Minister. What to do is we have to look at them. Another amendment here under the provisions of this article says: 'Replaces paragraph 4'. What article doesn't tell us. Amendment number 849, special 81. Let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u194	In rush upstairs, they forgot to put in the report...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u195	We've lost control. I shall now refer to the reference made by my colleague to the amendments, because these amendments are beautiful and good, they are delicious, while those tabled by our government during the previous parliamentary term were not delicious. I understand that. Of course, there was the consultation process and then the lenders as if we did not go through this process, it was something different. As well as the social dividend given by the New Democracy at the time and you reacted, you would probably have ordered Siomple to react then. That is how we have to explain it, since today you are talking about it in this way. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is very much the case. Try the white one to make it black and black white. We're used to you. You are, in fact, artists and conductors in communication and you are right to do so to a point, but your society has taken over. This is the accident for you. Mr Vitsats also mentioned that you in the elections last minute were bringing in amendments, fifty, forty-five, kind of like that. So, there we are today. You are at this point. Nowadays, you're starting assignments to various ministries. I would, however, like to come to this point and it has to do with the bill and the Ministry of Justice coming. One would say that justice is the last refuge of any unjust person or person who thinks or has the impression that he is wrong. So, therefore, the Ministry of Justice in the person of the Minister of Justice reflects the law. So we are waiting here for a moderate minister, a cloud, to mitigate the passions that often exist within Parliament. Minister, during the previous debate in plenary, the two-thirds of your position had been mentioned in a repressive and negative way - as far as I am concerned, as far as I am concerned, and against the New Democracy, against its President, in particular, mentioning the issue that serves as an intervention by the President of the New Democracy in justice. And that was, as I understood in your discussion and in your development of this content of your report, that, when it came to the events of the delay, the carcinogenicity of the issues that had to do with investments relating to the Greek, the 'COSCO', lastly, the ISAFA also referred to Zakynthos and you said that the case is in justice, so the President of the New Democracy is wrongly interfering. If that is possible for you to be regarded as an intervention! And then you proceeded to your debate, to the conversation you had with the President of the Court of Auditors and to move it here as if you were a Minister for Transport. Wrong, Minister, as far as I'm concerned. You have referred, of course, to your rapporteur and her conclusion to the aid. This charity you are trying to pass on to pensioners as a big event, as a third pension, when it is known that the time of five hundred thousand pensioners you removed 30% - 50% of their pensions, in another three hundred and fifty thousand people you removed from the subsidiary. You are continuing this year, i.e. in 2017, with the Katrugalou Act again on pension reductions from 15% to 30%, that is, what you will give as a help, from the beginning of the year you will get it back. And of course, if you will also proceed with the adoption of a surplus of 3.5 billion more will again, indirectly and directly, be charged to all taxpayers and, of course, to all pensioners. That's the hard reality. Of course, I said at the beginning, you can make the white and black white. This is your technique and we must recognise it. As far as the evaluation is concerned, the Minister of Finance, who has just arrived and we welcome him, said that if the evaluation does not end until 5 December, things are rusting for the country. And now, we are told by official lips and by all the government officials that this can go and end January, it can go first quarter of the year to come. Therefore, this is constantly burdening the country, burdening any potential investor to think about coming to our country in any way to invest. This is a great brake and it concerns you and your inability. That is what happened last year, unfortunately, with the evaluation. You connected it to the refugee, which should end in October, you transferred the whole issue by March, trying to blackmail the refugee and the evaluation, so that we suffer for both huge consequences. That is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen, now with this assessment. Unfortunately, all this will be transferred to the backs of the Greek society, which in a particular way you are trying to take advantage of and in the face of the elections that will actually take place, so it can be seen from the body of your amendments, commissions and sponsorships, if the Greek conscience is to be taken over. Unfortunately or fortunately the Greeks have met you and this time you cannot accept this tactic and practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st High School of Ano Touba Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before moving on to the list of speakers, Mr Vassiliadis asked for the floor to support three amendments. I would only ask you for each amendment to indicate the number, so that it can be understood to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u197	The first amendment, under general number 829 and special 68, concerns how the federations are elected to represent the ILO. It provides that the provisions of the statutes of each Federation will apply to this election. The provision is in line with the ILO Charter and removes any misunderstandings until the adoption of the new sport law which will take place in the coming months. Especially - and this is important - for the multipathic football Federation, for which, as you know, in the coming months in cooperation with the Simplification Committee, FIFA and UEFA, we will try to modernise both the statutes and the law. The second amendment is the one with a general number of 847 and a special 79. It concerns the ESRB and the composition of the Board of Directors, which is being modernised. They are entering objective criteria in the selection of the scientists who manage it, actively involving the medical association. The Paralympic Committee shall be treated equally, having a member of the Board of Directors. The third amendment, under a general number 827 and a special 66, is to extend the introduction of the fan card. Unfortunately, we have to bring in an extension so that we do not create another problem for the large ones that exist. This is the last time this extension is given. Of course, we have assurances from both the teams and from Lega and from the relevant agencies that by 31 March we will be ready so that the rest of the championship and the playoffs can go with the new system. In any case, the new season will begin with all safety requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we give the floor to the next speaker, I can tell you that there will be two Members' seats, and then the Minister for Health, Mr Xanthos, will follow in support of the amendment he has tabled. So we are giving the floor right away to Mr. John The Guardian from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say a few words at the outset. The important parts of the bill I consider to be self-evident and that we all have to agree and condone. As far as bankruptcy is concerned. There's a second chance. What we have been waiting for so long has finally been legislating. It's the exemption to the non-mortem bankrupt debtor, especially nowadays. Can anyone argue? It's something we've been expecting. It's an obligation on our society. They are entrepreneurs who have been bankrupt and 99% of small and medium-sized enterprises that have no fraud, waiting for it and how. No one can argue with that. Then there is the acceleration of the administrative trial. Does anyone disagree? Especially those who serve in the field of justice, whether as lawyers or as judges, do we know. Remember what? Cases I have handled in 2002 and 2004 and are still pending in the courts? We welcome the effort and can be made in all areas even more, Minister. It is in a very positive way what is being done. But such is the delay especially in administrative justice that when the court's time comes, the parties have forgotten the case and others have died, others have forgotten their files, their papers, lawyers are retired and said. We're going to the Treasury, to electronic transactions, to plastic money, to tax, to VAT, to contributions directly where they have to go. Does anyone disagree? Can you argue with that? No, and it's finally happening. Finally, incentives are given for declaring undeclared money. Can anyone argue? Oh, no. It's finally happening. This is even about justice between generations. I mean, for our generations, it's all in the light, and that's how it has to be. In the past, however, - and we are paying for it now - there was a lot of undeclared money, a lot of tax avoidance and we are paying it now. That is why it is an opportunity for older people who have either in bills abroad or in their drawers or I do not know where undeclared money is, who have to say so, pay their taxes and their obligations to the state and to society. I'm on my way. I'm picking up some articles from my own place as a lawyer, the one of justice. There have also been reactions from the plenary on Rule 14, which says of increased judicial expenditure if the document is large. But that makes sense. Because now with computers, we've come to have huge books. They are falling, Minister, sometimes in my hands by my late father's lawyer, who was a lawyer in the 1960s. Some had two and a half pages of lawsuits and in whatever courts they went. It makes me a terrible impression. If you're now practicing a lawsuit, you're gonna have to write over fifty pages. It is, of course, the fault of our conspiracy judges because many have it as candy to reject it as vague and the administrative judges and the S.H.E. to reject the reasons inadmissible. So then the lawyer says, "Inadmissible and vague? Put another 10 pages on.’ There must be restraint on both sides so that we can have all sorts of documents which are incomprehensible, but do not reject them as vague and unacceptable. In a positive step, we have in Article 15 a request for appeal and appeal more relaxed. A positive step that, following the citizens' right to the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights. receive the procedure. We have discussed this with the Administrative Court of Appeal, by analogy, on the grounds that Law 702/77 has a similar application to the Court of First Instance. 18/89. Positive and Article 17, which also irrevocable decisions are binding on administrative justice. In Article 21(2), which talks about the service of the application or appeal by the Registry of the Court of Justice sixty days ago, I would propose, either now or in a subsequent bill, that the application be filed with administrative justice to suspend the limitation. Why? The party, knowing that the service will be done by the court secretariat, rests and is very likely, because the document will be identified after five years can and after seven, for the claim to be cancelled. It's things that have happened. Make a footnote. Now I am also referring to it because I was unable to speak at Friday's sitting, but it is likely that you will also be able to see it later. In other words, interrupting the limitation is important in administrative justice. The rapporteur judge is a good thing. Cases before 2013, which enter the presidential procedure, are important. Very importantly, and the entire legal world, the abolition of the judiciary in recognizing actions and on the basis of German allowances, must welcome it. I mean, this is where we show a difference. Within the time of the crisis we have taken care of the world, we have taken care of issues such as this, which are very essential to the area of justice, as well as to labour lawsuits. These are very important issues. Don't tell us "A, you voted for the insurance" because the opposition would have voted worse. But we do show with this the will we have to deal with the problems. As a paradox, which is escalating, a consistent request after the imposition and introduction of the paradoxes. It is not possible for the Peace Court to pay the same paradox as the Multiple Court of First Instance for a difference of 1000 euros. In the Multicolor to increase more and decrease more in the young. That makes sense. When the difference is over 200,000, the other doesn't mind the paradox. Now it is inconsistent to say that it is abolishing the judiciary in recognizing actions. I accept the legal world's reaction, but it makes sense that when you ask for something, which goes back to trial, you give a symbolic sum. I would suggest, Minister, that, apart from abstention in the exception of the paradox, we also have in case we have a disease and produce a document from a public hospital. That is, when the party is unwitting and is inside a public hospital and is hospitalized, excluded because the citizen will feel badly. Am I sick, nursing, and paying off, too? Positively, too, are the paradoxes of reducing the evil in the lawsuit, involuntation and representation of political lawsuits. In Rule 52, the initiative belongs personally to me and to fellow Members. She was accepted by the Ministry, and thank you for that. I think it was a bad reaction from the representative of the judges, Mr Sevastides. Since the Constitution, they have jurisdiction and not to have elections. They're pressurized over time. What we were saying before is that we need to find time for the judges, for justice to function, and not for weekends to run elections. On the contrary, our fellow lawyers are thousands, very remarkable scientists, with rich qualifications, and we are contributors to justice. I mean, we look into the eyes and the lawyers and the judges. We're synergists of justice, and that's how we have to work. Lawyers are now a VAT-based branch, with increased taxation, the matter has been reduced, the insurance has come and has been tied up. They need to find a counterweight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Sanctuary, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u201	I shall conclude, Mr President, with Rule 52, although I would like to reply to Mr Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u202	No, don't tempt him or we'll have time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, I won't be tempted. The history of the provision is that there was a coma for lawyers to hold elections in their country until the beginning of the 2000s. That came and so there is no distrust anymore. It's just someone laughing and saying it. So there's no question of lawyers making the election. After all, we have also made sure, experience, when it comes to secondary and tertiary organisations. There's been a great effort. This shows that for small things and daily things, however, that change matter and everyday life, a great deal needs to be done. This has contributed to associations which have received communications, such as the Serres Bar Association and the Drama Bar Association, who - the president and secretary of the Board of Directors - have even come here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u204	Good, Mr. Warden. Please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u206	Mr Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. For those who know, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that a state behaves against the poor, that is to say, the one who has been bankrupt and economically dead. For as long as he is poor, neither a block can issue for the provision of a service, nor a single euro can be submitted to him to a bank as he is immediately seized. He's a financially dead man. As some statistics say, which I do not trust, but I read them, the total of the poor in Greece is three hundred thousand. I find it impossible for 12% of the working population to be economically active. However, if we see how many years the processing of a bankruptcy case and the deaths have taken place without the whole process being handled, etc., comfortable, running back in the decades, we can record a very large number. I don't have any statistical information in mind, and I don't know if there's something like that valid. However, I know - as we all know - that it is a development element, in addition to the element of justice towards people, that fate should be properly arranged for our fellow citizens who have been bankrupt and who have lost their lives through their financial bankruptcy. The second opportunity for the poor is a very great opportunity to give people back, to regain their lives. However, the economy of the country can also be given a boost to development by some people returning to economic life. The fate of the poor, his return, in that sense, to the economic life of the country - which I say again - is about him and the economy - underlines the report. That's right. But you appear, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to think that we have solved the problems with these interventions under Articles 1 to 13. It's not like that. We shall vote on the provisions. They've got positive elements. But there must be a conscience in the Chamber that you are dealing with this only from one aspect of it, namely that of the narrow concept of bankruptcy law. However, the fate of the poor is a product of many of the components that relate to the law. It is, for example, a product and its criminal treatment. One is the own-initiative prosecution, but many possible complaints from creditors. Endless procedures, with costs of judicial proceedings, many years, first degree, second degree and pending. One logic would say that one is the trial and one condemnation of the lenders. But here we are not finished. The pendingness of the man who has been declared poor is permanent in the sense that he is multiannual. You're finishing it. It is also a CEDEFOP issue. Isn't that a matter of collecting public revenue? If you have a case where the company went bankrupt and you're doing an exotic check and you're throwing 10 million euros, 5 million euros, 2 million euros, 800 thousand, depending on what you're going to charge him, you're helping him raise a head? You're done with him. Because this is a situation that can last for years - because if you look at the changes, we are talking about 2007 and then, in 2011 and the present, which is in a positive direction, I say again, but it does not solve the problem - you do not have the illusion that, with the intervention that is being made today, the poor or the economy gets, through the regulation of the issues of the poor, that impetus that could give it if we really had a complete attempt to resolve this problem. When I have my speeches in front of me and look at what I have said about development issues in the years that Greece has been afflicted, in all my speeches, in the measures I have mentioned - for example, a real change in the licensing system for enterprises, not the one that has been done, which is not to be implemented before the middle of 2018, nor is the previous 2013 one that has never been implemented - a real response to the problems of development in the country and a solution to individual problems is also the bankruptcy one. Unfortunately, it is a one-sided approach and it will not bring about a solution. If the government were in a coordinated position, it could attack the problem entirely, from all its aspects, and with the task of specific ministers trying to harness it. But on what matter does the government appear in a coordinated manner? Here, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we had the Prime Minister talking a few days ago - in Germany I think - about 22.5% of unemployment and at the same time about the Minister of Labour saying that a hundred twenty-five thousand people are paid 100 euros. We had the Prime Minister say that Greece has the discretion and the right to make the grant policy that the Minister of Finance decides at the same time, out of the border, to say that it was a mistake that the rulers did not coordinate with the lenders. We now go to the subject of the amendment on suspension for one year of the abolition of the reduced tax rates on the islands. To say in May 2016, ladies and gentlemen, what did the Prime Minister say when he gave a speech to strengthen the government's legislative initiative with measures, including that? She said that the government, by means of its interventions, protects the weak, for it distributes the burdens, as it is its responsibility to do so when it is proportionally - depending on the power of each individual - distributes the burdens. That's what he said. It said, in other words, that this measure is also in the context of the measures which the Government, with a conscience of law and social justice, imposes on it. And now you're coming to say that you're suspending the application. You do not abolish it, as you promised last week, but you are suspending it for a year, as your amendment makes clear. You're telling us? We have brought these arrangements for reduced rates in all the islands. Despite the crisis, in our hands such a change has not taken place. It's yours. You need to think about what you were saying to the citizens and what you are doing at the end of the day. You promised everything. In fact, as a government, you promised and took it back. Suspend and not abolish. In fact, for some islands only this suspension is not all. You are fighting against common sense. No contraction, pretend benefactors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, over the last two - three weeks, made repeated references to a matter of corruption. This concerns not the privatisation of the OPCW, which I voted on, nor issues of the OPCW in general, which I have supported the defence of the OPCW against its unilateral increase in tax, despite the contract signed. I am not an opponent of either privatization or the conditions laid down by it. I am, however, fanatical in relation to the country's smoke-making, which you did not want, which the previous administration of the Gaming Commission had removed as an version, which the previous ones - with milder instruments, of course - had removed as an version. Your man's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u208	It's a dignified law, yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u209	Another game and other terms and the abolition of restrictions, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Loverdo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u211	I'll be done. Here we have a question of corruption, an issue on which you should have taken a stand as government. Mr. Papagelopoulos is away, but I'll let him know personally. It is an issue that concerns the abolition of restrictions for the protection of families. This is a matter for you by Antonis Stergiotis, the man you appointed in the Committee on Games. The Regulation that it adopted in the summer of 2015 shall be postponed. By who? From an administration of the Committee on Games, chaired by a committee of the Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency, it went on the other side of the table and said that all these games are addicted by accepting a scientific recommendation. A few days later, he abolished all the restrictions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Loverdo, please. You've already reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u213	I'm closed. This issue, Mr President, is open. And what will be the strongest slap in those who organized this attack against the Greek family is its implementation. The Regulation shall apply. Soon the game will start to play. There the majority will be confronted with the Greek family, with the people and with its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u214	The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor. I would also ask you, Minister, to report on the number of amendments and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u215	The general number is 840 and the special 72. It is a body of changes, mainly concerning pharmaceutical legislation. In fact, it is not new regulations, but a clarification of the arrangements that have been made in the past. There were legislative ambiguities, which had to be addressed, and it is a set of changes, which was made with a recommendation from the OECD to modernise pharmaceutical legislation. These are 12 amended provisions and five repealed provisions. Some of those that are repealed, for example, refer to the market code, which has been abolished or recast because there was ambiguity in law. I'm going to tell you a lot of them. For example, there was the question that private clinics could not buy in wholesale drugs if no pharmacy was provided in the clinic. This has been abolished for a long time. Now it's officially done that way. There was an older arrangement, which said, for example, that in order to get a medicine into the positive list, 4% of the ex Factory price, the producer price, had to be paid. This has changed in the mid-term, and what is actually paid is a fee of EUR 2,000 for every new drug, which goes on the positive list. There is the issue of warehouses, where the provision has also been abolished, but now it is updated, where there is no need for the pharmacist, who, of course, remains scientifically responsible, has a partnership and has 50% in the company that has the storeroom. There are also arrangements concerning the age limit for holding a pharmacy licence. That was sixty-five years ago. By decision of the S.H.E.L.D. It was considered unconstitutional and it was legislation in the seventeen years. This is also regulated in this way. There are some other very specific regulations concerning biocidal products, parallel imports. There is a clearer wording that it must be sufficiently similar to a medicine that is available in the country and not identical. It refers to the possibility of health care providers operating in non-continuous buildings. In any case, it is a body of amendments to the legislation which, in our view, does not bring about any substantial change in the functioning of the pharmaceutical market, especially in the pharmaceutical sector. The loose ends we closed last year, based on OECD Workshop I, were mainly the pharmacies' pharmacies' pharmacies' pharmacies and unprescribed medicines. You know very well that the regulations that have been introduced and the safeguards that have been put in place were such as to prevent an uncontrolled deregulation of this market. This means, in fact, a year after their legislation has not changed the landscape in the field of the drug market in the logic of a non-existent neoliberal deregulation. I think that this is the end of the matter with these interventions. The only thing we are still in negotiation with the institutions is the reorganisation of pharmacy working hours, where we believe that this liberalisation has actually taken place, has caused many side effects. We are therefore on a way to find a new framework which allows citizens to access easily, of course, but also prevent oligopolistic restructuring of the market in this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, thirty-three students and an educational attendant from the 1st High School of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are also being called today to discuss a bill, which is potentially positive. Reading the title alone, we understand that if it were done in the right way and legislated by you as it should, many problems would be solved in the country, although late. The bankruptcy code is our obligation. We should have improved him a long time ago. It's not your fault. It's the previous ones who don't mind. But you could do it earlier. However, there are some articles that could be improved. For example, we believe that the procedures, courts and justice must be moved more quickly, so that those who want to take advantage of this law can be immediately released and invested in Greece once again - although I see it very difficult - and give Greece a second chance. Because right now we don't give them a second chance. I don't know who intelligent man would invest in this country right now. I don't risk, nor prevent future investors. You are, unfortunately, preventing them from using your policy, basically with the policy you do not follow, as you have no planning so that - at last - this poor country can recover. I'm afraid so. This is also apparent from the fact that you are placing the responsibilities on the members of the board of directors. Don't you understand that on your own? Seeing how the real market works, do you think that anyone will come to risk in this country, with these rules? It's not normal, and you know it very well too. As far as administrative justice is concerned, it is well improved. I think you could make a little more progress. Our rapporteur has already mentioned this. Regarding the paradoxes: Do you believe that by increasing them or by imposing them to pay back the paradox, if there is a postponement, will you give a solution? Is that what you supported before you became a government? Of course not. The question was rhetorical. Unfortunately, these are not the measures we need to take. Can the system be somewhat facilitated - perhaps some might see it discouraged and not postponed without cause - but did you think of our poor fellowman? I don't know exactly what it's used to. Can't we find other ways? Do we have to pay? Is that how they're gonna raise the money so we can pay off the debt? From our fellow citizens? You come and you're talking about revealing undeclared income. In these terms, is there an investor, a man who hid them, anyone bringing his money to that country, with this banking system, the capital control banking system? These measures did not have any effects in more favourable conditions. Do you really think the other guy's bringing his money with a tax of up to 60%? Will it have a return on this measure? I really don't believe it. Maybe we should see things differently. Perhaps we should set a parameter by which we would force those who had their money out to bring them and invest them. This 60% that you are asking for, that they have as an investment in our country and that they also open up jobs, combat unemployment, work, and some young people should not leave. There is also a gap - which I hope at some point will be covered - about the countries with which we do not cooperate with the people, the Greeks, the young people, who have gone there and bring their money a little - or try to find ways to bring them 'black', because they have gone out to work and cannot bring their money back. So you think they worked and want to give you 60%, 50%, while it's over?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u218	Up to 60%!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u219	Yeah, up to 60%. I'm sorry, you're right. You are also going to solve the problem of electronic transactions. You're doing very well, and that's what we're supporting you. They should've taken care of it a long time ago. We are from the last countries in the credit card usage indexes. I think that, to a large extent, tax evasion is going to fall, and that's right. However, what the Democratic Partnership has proposed for the irresponsible account may have to be taken seriously into account, because you have also supported it. It is something we need to consider, because the business must also be moving. Unfortunately, however, these alone are not going to bring growth. Really, I'm surprised when I'm watching what you were saying before and what you're talking about. Instead of being on Christmas and New Year's Mood, you're always in an early April, because, if it's not a lie, then there's a mental disorder, a divided personality. A lot of you who's here, but they said before and others say now. So you're helping your fellowman, fighting poverty, strengthening vulnerable groups? I had a conversation the other day with a fellow man who told me, "To you in there, as you act and as you legislate and with all your attitude, they must force you to pass psychometric tests." Really, man's right. Our reactions in here and what we were saying and what we're saying indicates that we're liars or something else happens to our mental health. All this attitude and behavior causes us beyond anger and anger to our fellow citizens, coupled with many others, to which we have already referred. One of these is the discrimination you make on the issue of casinos. Of course, the Greek citizen, who is hungry - many are hungry, not all of them - does not now care if Parnitha's casino comes in and if two casinos operate in Attica. He cares, however, that in his neighborhood a little casino will come where the desperate husband or young child - not the minor - will be able to enter. You've removed all the security licenses. Indeed - Mr Amyras said so too - smoking is permitted. It's like helping them. Do you think that's what she needs? The Greeks are indignant about your whole attitude. I'm afraid so. You come and increase the situation, sowing dissent - and I'll explain to you what I mean - and splitting. In the previous bill you brought the amendment on the allowance to pensioners in a roll-call vote. Why did you do it? To strengthen your position against lenders? Would you close the evaluation? I asked you about it and then. That's not why you did it. It was a trick that New Democracy fell into, which you accused us of. We abstained from the whole process, as we do not believe in any card co-operation and co-operation. From the outset we are proposing exactly what you understood now, if you understood it and do not do it for other reasons, a government of cooperation where we will exchange opinions where we can express confidence, we will inspire it to our lenders, our partners. In no case do we support the Siomple policy which makes its game and no one applauds it in Europe. The referendum also saw what our referendum showed, both the Italians and the British. The European citizens have called for the policy that is being pursued. Yet what you do is not right. It's similar to the referendum. It's a drug-free move, with which all you can do is split. So the country won't go forward and you know it. Let us put aside political gains, political costs, and now let us have a policy clearly for Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Mr Cremastino has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance how he would comment if he heard that Germany imposed a tax on heavy-duty industry, on its cars, 30%. It would automatically be uncompetitive to its competitors. What is being done today with the taxation of the Aegean islands makes them virtually uncompetitive with the tourism of the island across the Turkish coast. The same hotels are given to tourist complexes with prices of at least 30% lower than Greek hotels do. This is becoming even more dramatic because it has been taxed at tourists' nights, so the next step is to reduce tourism compared to Turkey. It is a pity for Greek tourism that it is Turkey's internal situation that is political, because people are afraid to go to Turkey right now. We are still collecting that. However, this cannot be an argument to increase the taxation of tourism more in the Aegean islands. The national significance of the survival and retention of the populations of the Aegean islands is obvious. Isolation of the islands, their dependence on weather conditions and their de facto limited economy impose a special regime for the residence of the inhabitants there, so that we do not get to desertification like in the beginning of the last century, when there has been massive migration of the inhabitants of the islands towards America and Australia. Islands with populations of five thousand inhabitants were found to have five hundred inhabitants within a decade. Even the sultans - and note this - on the Ottoman Empire maintained a special tax regime and a religious regime on the islands in order to keep their populations out and not lead them to desertification, because obviously even the Ottoman Empire has helped the islands not to be devastated. The other conquerors did the same. The suspension of VAT, which is now proposed by the Government as a measure, is considered to be insufficient to remedy this situation. Note that the islands and the Italian Republic had a special tax regime and when they were released and became Greek, until we entered the European Union, which Andreas Papandreou then imposed the reduced VAT on the islands as a follow-up to the special tax system. In other words, it has not given much more than they have had, so it will benefit financially. But where are we driving today? The Prime Minister last week found himself in Nissyro and Tilo and announced measures, if you like, to improve this situation. Today the Karpathos Municipal Council met exceptionally, as did the Dodecanese Chamber and they say that they asked the Prime Minister whether Rhodes will be in the islands that will somehow benefit from this favourable treatment, even for one year, and the Prime Minister as they say, “Why do you ask me? Rhodes is not a Dodecanese?’ That was a few days ago. The Dodecanese Chamber sent me the relevant document and I submit it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, the solution to the suspension is not what the islands need. What happens next year in December? Are we going to return to the same regime? The solution is to appreciate what the equivalents are, as the PASOK Government and the PASOK-New Democracy co-government have done, to give other equivalents and to leave the tax regime as it has been so far, so that Greek tourism is competitive with Turkey's tourism. When we are at a time when the Aegean is basically burning and burning nationally, which Turkish planes are overcoming our islands every day, which our islands are clearly questioned, do we have room for giving the signal of leaving young people and finding themselves in Europe, Germany and Australia? The issue of the islands is not an economic or a micropolitical one. It is a matter of purely national, time-consuming, which, if you would like my opinion and the opinion of the historians, is linked to the existence of the people themselves on these islands. I'm not going to comment on the measures, because they're fire-fighting measures, that is, no Karpathus, no Rhodes, yes, the rest. But populations move in the capital city of the law and buy products from the capital. How can the citizen of Kastelorizos - who are unfortunately going to buy to Turkey, why is he next door - find himself in Rhodes and will benefit from the favourable regulation which he is concerned with, since the products in question will have the prices for the equation of the tax system with the rest of the inland country? Therefore - and I conclude with this - my proposal is that you should fully review the issue and really proceed with the situation that existed until the Government itself proposed to the Troika with the forty-seven pages that this tax regime be imposed. The troika requested it in both the first and second memorandums. It didn't happen. In the third memorandum, however, the proposal was to equilibrium. So find such equivalents so that these extra burdens can be removed and the Dodecanese world can live properly, comfortablely, normally and our tourism remains competitive with Turkey's tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Mrs Karamanlis from New Democracy will speak and the Minister of Finance Mr Chakalotos will follow. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. In its regular practice, the Government legislates with last-minute amendments to unrelated bills. Especially for sport, the government once again legislates with amendments: last July for the Committee on Ethics, Fans' Card and IAEA, last November with the Committee on Simplification, and today. This attitude is a sign of political irresponsibility and a lack of respect for democratic institutions. You have been announcing a law for two years, and when you finally put it in consultation, you leave it there forty days, and when you take it down on December 9, you disappear it from the face of the earth. Not only that, but you replace him with amendments to your leg because you are being made to it. You will allow me, first of all, to make a little reference to the amendment on the establishment of the ILO's Plenary Session. This is an amendment that you have fortunately withdrawn, because you understood that it was unrealisticly exposing you as it would constitute a direct interference within the Olympic Committee. Of course the explanation that this is a mistake and that the printer's demons are not liable to be convincing, because printing errors are easy to correct and do not constitute a reason to withdraw a provision. In any case, however, when you reintroduce a provision amending the statutes of the ILO, you must first have the approval of the ILO's Plenary Assembly, as provided for in Article 37 of Law 2725/1999 and, secondly, have ensured that the changes you have made are accepted by the ILO. Because, in accordance with Articles 27 and 28 of the ILO Olympic Charter, any amendment and addition to the statutes of the National Olympic Committee should comply with its principles. Otherwise, you will again be running around to bring last-minute amendments to gather the unbundled ones. I put these articles in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is the third consecutive extension you are giving to the application of the fan card and the online ticket. This shows that you voted for it for purely communication reasons. Meanwhile, the cases of violence continue unrelentingly and have been extended to theoretically low-risk sports. Unfortunately, on 21-8-2015, the decision was signed to enter into force on 30-9-2015, so that 1-1-2016 the fan card would be mandatory. The sloppyness of the law, however, was not too late to appear. On 29-12-2015, an extension was granted for 1 March 2016, after the opinion of the Personal Data Authority that legislative amendments by the Ministry of Justice are required. In particular, it was pointed out that the establishment of the fan card and the electronic rated and numbered ticket to the stadiums should also be subject to legislation, as the joint decision of the Ministers for Finance, Home Affairs and Culture which had already been signed is not sufficient. In March, a new deferral was granted for 30-9-2016, upon request of the OIPs. Continuation of the postponement was given to the Super League Board on 27-9-2016 until the end of the year. Today the government with an amendment to an unrelated bill once again extends the launch of the fan card, which it considered compulsory as a measure to combat violence. Mr Vassiliou even said that we should not be self-sufficient, because other countries also have incidents. So the government that was interrupting orchestras made ends without fans, closed doors, today tells us that nothing is wrong. If, the non-genus, in the meantime, we have new cases of violence, what will the reaction be? They will once again dismantle the organization and call for a preliminary dialogue between the institutions. Things are very simple. Whether you are finally applying the law to assess their performance or accepting your failure and changing it. In this ditch, we can't consent. That is why we are voting 'the present'. And I come to the amendment on how the representatives of the federations in the ILO are elected. What does anyone see by watching the manipulations? You've turned into a line of developments. Your attitude and policy depend on the appeals filed by the unions. Legislation according to the development of the hours-limited appeals. You bring an amendment that shows your curiosity and proves that you are going on the logic of'seeing and doing'. We ask: will another electorate be voting for the representative of the EVO - because this is actually about your amendment - and more about the board of directors? Do you, after the next appeal, bring a new amendment which will annoy today? You are trapped in a vicious circle of your own mistakes. You brought L.4326/2015 in the middle of celebrations last year, according to which - for Article 15 I am speaking - the statute of the NCA must be in line with the Constitution and the existing legislation. It comes last October that the Arbitration Court presses in your own law and considers that the NCA must align itself with the sporting law and elect its administration on the basis of it. We shared the intervention of FIFA and the appointment of the temporary commander. Since you are taking the fact that you brought FIFA in and clean up football, I would like to ask the following question: did FIFA finally intervene because of the letters and invitations - yours - or because it thought that the self-employed was affected? You are bringing an amendment to the Agency's representative only. Does that mean that for the federation elections something else will happen? Will you legislate again exceptionally and surprisingly? You must finally clarify your intentions. Today, Mr Koutsoskoumis said, "The decision of the Arbitration Committee finally judged FIFA's intervention. The law interferes with the self-employed, because the issue of election is exclusively the right of members of the NRA. We will never tolerate the state deciding how the elections will be held. This is impossible for FIFA. If the State does not lift its legislative intervention, it alone justifies serious FIFA measures. We will have a problem if the state does not do that." For felony and criminal offences the law is above the statute. The statutes are on top of what concerns the self-employed. If you have committed a crime, then you are not protected by any statutes. You must clarify, as I have said, your intentions. We call on you to withdraw this amendment because it is a typical example of your sloppiness and short-sighted policy. We would like you to bring a comprehensive proposal on what will apply to the Federal elections. Otherwise, we are voting against it in its current form. Your tactics to legislate with amendments simply raises the spiral of your deadlocks, except that Greek sport will ultimately be the victim of this tactic. As far as the Committee on Simplification is concerned, its task is to calm down a tense situation and start the elections. Today, Mr Koutsokoumis reiterated this in his statements: 'The Temporary Management Committee is an anomaly, and it must be the fastest it will have to end in order to have democratic elections'. In the Commission's presentation, he said the elections were a sacrosanct. I will not say anything about the amendment to the USSR. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask you to withdraw it, Mr Vassiliou, and you understand why. You filed it at 18:30 and shared it a moment ago. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kremastinos is here, I hope. I just wanted to let him know that the tax on business in Germany is 29.7%. He asked me what I thought about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u226	He didn't ask you how much he was, Minister. If he raised her, he asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u227	So I think I've answered that. I have some legislative improvements to put forward. It is entirely technical, except for two - three that I would like to clarify. The first thing I would like to say is that Article 62A(4) of Law 4170/2013, as added by paragraph 3 of the draft law under discussion, is to withdraw. What's that? This is in relation to electronic gaming payments, which, because there is now a legislative committee incorporating a relevant directive from the European Union, we think it is better to come when we have this directive in front of us. Secondly, Article 75, which provided for a decision of the Minister of Finance to provide incentives for electronic transactions, is also withdrawn. We consider it better and more democratic to bring it, when we have decided what these incentives must be, not just a ministerial decision, to submit it to Parliament. We have also tabled a legislative improvement in Article 68, which defines the first categories of taxpayers exempted from the obligation to have the tax free to pay with cards. It is for people with disabilities, for elderly people who are over seventy, for people in legal support, so that we can make it easier for citizens who are difficult to build this tax free through electronic card payments. In relation to the questions raised for Article 94(6), I should like to say that almost every year problems arise with certain categories of expenditure which are not defined in the same way by the competent authorities. For example, for my Ministry, the cleaners in Thessaloniki of the Ministry of Finance have not been paid, while the cleaners that are in Athens and other cities have been paid. All these problems will be treated with the new institutional framework for public accounting concluded with the provisions of this draft law. To say two - three things about voluntary disclosure and the promotion of electronic transactions. These are the bills that come to complement our strategy so that we can change the mix of policy that we wanted. As I told you in my speech last week, we have made our self-criticism. It was harder than we thought, as we have confessed, to catch the big tax evasion. But I think we are taking firm steps in this direction. It's very important that the voluntary revelation, the VDI. It could be up to 60% of taxation. It's not 60%, as I've heard people say while I was here. I think it's a last chance for people to bring money back. These people need to know that we've been working very well now, working on a lot of cases a day, not a few cases a month. So I think there is both the carrot and the whip for these people who have escaped tax. We don't allow alleviations except tax evasion. It's right to find a fair balance in all these measures to get some money, but the honest ones who had left their money here, don't feel foolish. Every law affecting voluntary revelation has this problem. Now, if I were to pull her right where we need to, there's always a conversation and maybe we didn't. But the point of the problem is that we don't want amnesty, we don't want to award those who made their money. They have to pay what they'd pay if they had left their money inside. However, we are making very strict penalties so that we can also earn some money, and with the mastistry that the control mechanisms are able to threaten people who decide not to take this opportunity in the future. For cards, I must say that this is also a new intervention that has been building on the increased use of electronic means of payment in recent years. I think it's a very important initiative. I would remind you that both these measures are what the institutions call non-measurable measures, i.e. they do not participate in the building of catching the budgetary targets for 2018 or 2018 or beyond. That's the bad news. The good news is that what you earn from these interventions is your money. We have shown to this government that we will stretch as far as we can to the limits of surveillance for the good of the Greek people and to correct the injustices that have been done in the past. That's the promise SYRIZA made. That is the promise that will continue to keep up with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u228	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Two Members will follow. Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Mouszalas will then speak to support amendments. We will continue after the Ministers with speakers. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you always surprise us, but unpleasantly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u230	Not always. That's too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u231	Always unpleasant. What kind of surge of amendments is that? A number of amendments by the Ministry, which tomorrow have a bill. It brings it today in the urgent procedure, and this is a late amendment. Why don't you bring these amendments to tomorrow's debate on how to regulate oil companies, energy inspectors, since we are going to discuss a bill from the Ministry of Energy, the Environment and Spatial Planning tomorrow? Why today all these amendments? Why, while the meeting has begun, are there other amendments that are irrelevant to the issues that we are discussing? In this respect, there are a number of very serious issues in these amendments, Minister. Let me begin with Amendment No 850, the last one tabled, for the Hellenic Defence Systems. Why are you doing this? Why are you selling NSA assets? To exalt her or shrink her activities?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u232	To pay the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u233	Leave the pretext "pay the workers", now. So you're squeezing the company's business, selling assets on the pretext of paying the employees? But you're spending so much money. You also received credit from Obama that Greece spends 2% on 'damaging' costs. Why from this 2% - which is a huge amount - do you not give to pay the employees, upgrade the Greek Defence Systems, but shrink them and sell them? Who's the buyer, and why do you give it to him clean? Who cares? What is he interested in investing for? We are clearly saying that this amendment is a doomed amendment. So instead of upgrading the NSAs, they can play a role, you in the context of the European Union's policy and the enormous competition that may exist with large corporations producing weapon systems, downgrade them, shrink them, and eventually go for a lock in this process. We therefore think that from Amendment No 850 you should withdraw paragraph 2 of Amendment No 1, which speaks of divestment of the assets of the Greek Defence Systems. One is that. Secondly, Amendment No 849. Why would you give her retrospective power? We cannot understand what you want to regulate with this amendment. Will you also give it retroactive power to whether or not the damage from 1-1-2014 is offset? Why should this retrospective force not be in place from now on if it is beneficial? What do you want to do? Why does it not make sense from the wording that you have made in this amendment, and much more raises questions, because it is 1-1-2014 that it has retroactive effect. The same issue we have with the amendment which is - how can I say it? - That's provocative. It is the amendment to the EOT that may conclude direct contracts. Where and where? Why is this not enough for Greek tourism to be advertised? He should've made the plans earlier. Why, then, from the window can the EOT make direct contracts and commissions for the advertising package when these are huge funds? Is that the transparency? Is that the fight against corruption and interlocutory? Or do we create new layers of interactivity in the name of the urgency and go all and pass them directly to the EOT? It used to be for refugees and immigrants, now for the EOT, and life continues, the same violin. From this point of view, we are clearly saying that this bill has very specific features, Minister. It is in the context of the second assessment, and it is an anti-grass bill - entirely anti-grassroots! - for the bankruptcy procedure. Why, too, what are you doing? You put the banks as guardian of the entire bankruptcy procedure, they will be able to secure a greater part of the bankrupt businesses and thus facilitate acquisitions and mergers. Of course, there is no guarantee for the workers of these companies who are bankrupt, that their jobs will be paid, because the banks first go and grab and after the state has left, they will also go to the workers. So that is one issue. Second matter. You celebrated just before for the voluntary compliance of tax evasionrs. So instead of trying to confiscate their assets, you reward them on top. Of course, I do not want to talk about the Golden Dawn, which saw black marketmen over there, and rushed to support these modern black marketers. Full ambiguousness and full legitimacy of the illegal revenues they have and you are now celebrating, why would they pay their own tax if they had declared them? And all these years, they didn't win? Isn't that really amnesty for cases of tax evasion, smuggling, black money laundering and all the rest? Are you giving them amnesty, essentially? Third side. The plastic money who serves? Is it going to hit the tax evasion? Grab the big fish, which makes the triangular transactions, which have money in tax havens, tax the big capital and let the pit that you're going to get into. Why will this not be the case on the substance of the concentration on the market? Because a little guy with the commissions the banks get, he can't put the POSs on. Why don't you reduce the commissions to the banks? Let us expressly say that for certain categories, up to a cap, the commission is being abolished in the banks. Why don't you say that? To be for those who have the grocery store, the kiosk, the oven, the grocery store not to pay supplies. If, then, they have a profit rate of 5% -6% or damage and you put them in and they pay for a premium from above to the banks for these transactions, we do nothing. On the other hand, you are holding the money together in the banks so that they can use it as they want. So with the plastic money concentration on the market you want to do, to throw out violently those who can't stand and can't stand it. Because, of course, the big supermarkets, the stores, and all of this, have absolutely no problem and special deals with the banks for the rationale of supply are closed. But the kid doesn't have that opportunity to do it. So explicitly put it that you are relieved of a cigarette and downwards of the bank to support the professional, the self-employed, the neighborhood grocery store. Supermarkets can do it on their own, because they are free to determine what commission they will pay, but the professional can't do that. So who are you working for now? For multinationals, stores and banks. It will be an even greater blow to professionals and self-employed people. From this point of view, we say so. And the last point we wanted to raise here - and I conclude, Mr President - is the issue of casinos. Of course you have been placed in Greece to make the country of casinos everywhere, casinos and in Greek to make the investment, casinos and Parnitha transport attractive. We don't care about that. We say that this activity must be abolished because it is a parasitic activity. What needs to be done at this stage, and that is what we want to do, is that workers must be guaranteed until they are able to engage in other activities. And we insist on the abolition of this parasiticism rather than its generalisation. At least make sure that the casino workers and their needs are assured. With this, Mr President, I am closing. We said at first that we did not vote for it and most of the articles will be voted against. In some, we will differentiate our position according to the particular circumstances. I would, however, really like to see the amendment, Minister, explain why it has retroactive effect and that Article 1(2) of the NSA amendment withdraws, because it is an asset-sharing scandal in the Hellenic Defence Systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs Vulture will follow and then she will take the floor, as I said before, Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Mouszalas to support amendments. Here you go, Mrs. Vagonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today comes to cover a number of issues with a common denominator: simplifying procedures, transparency and creating equality conditions for access to justice, subjecting to bankruptcy law and a fair distribution of tax burdens. The reform of bankruptcy law should have been done a long time ago. We know that the liquidation of capital is, unfortunately, another aspect of the crisis, as we have seen all over the last few years, the fall in demand has led to many, especially small businesses going bankrupt. The bill comes to cover a very important gap, allowing for a second chance for bankrupt entrepreneurs. It ensures that these operators can go back to the market if they show good faith in proclaiming bankruptcy and bankruptcy is not due to fraudulent actions. After two years, the businessman can reach a decision that will even completely relieve him of the balance of the creditors' claims and can therefore reopen his business, giving him a second chance. It is also important that bankruptcy proceedings are shortened and simplified, as the debtor may submit a plan for the resolution of his company, either at the same time as the application is lodged or at the latest within three months. Also positive is the reduction of offenders, as was pointed out at the hearing of the bodies. I would like to make this clear and welcome as a member of the cross-party committee responsible for claiming German allowances, the positive regulation of Article 33 concerning the abolition of the obligation to pay a judicial declarant’s debts, which was a constant request from the parties to claim German debts, as well as from the committee, in the thorough study of which this article was based, according to the explanatory memorandum of the bill. During the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there were objections to an increase in the so-called'replacement'. I am not a lawyer, but I know - and I think everyone is aware of this - that there is a misuse of postponements, resulting in a delay in the administration of justice. So something needs to be done here. And a deterrent, in my opinion, is also the increase in the'replacement'. I shall come to the second part of the multi-brand plan, which relates to the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Our government has a permanent open front with corruption and tax evasion. Our approach has two parts: strengthening control mechanisms and combating tax evasion, while trying to ensure that the country's stable fiscal track also entails the social recompense for tax revenue. That is what has happened recently with the performance of a small part of what the state owes to the weakest, as is the case today with the amendment on VAT on the islands. With the possibility of revealing undeclared income, a procedure is ensured which can lead to an increase in public revenue, while ensuring the public interest, since the main tax is paid in full and above. Although the provision is of a voluntary nature, we need to note that for the wider context of dealing with undeclared incomes, steps have been taken and steps have been taken to reveal them. The agreement on automatic exchange of information with more than a hundred OECD countries, from the country of origin of income or assets, in the country of tax residence, which will be done in 2017, will help the work of the audit mechanisms. It is a last chance, then, that undeclared income holders choose their own disclosure. In the need to build an overall framework for tackling tax evasion, the forecasts for electronic money are also available. The more we manage to have transparent transactions - and thus reduce the margins for concealing income - the more stable and fair fiscal policy will be. Real transparency in trade means fairer burden sharing and more opportunities to intervene to the benefit of those in need. The reduction of the limit to EUR 500 for the forced execution of electronic transactions, the minimum cost by electronic means of payment for tax-free on the basis of income and the compulsory use of electronic payment instruments for certain categories of entrepreneurs are interventions that the reality of everyday life has shown to be practicable. Many colleagues in the Opposition accuse us of being incapacitated in the plastic money measures. After pointing out that we are starting today what has not been implemented in so many years, I would like to stress that we are making a start on which we can build and move further. After all, the extrajudicial compromise, which I believe will also contribute to resolving a real problem. Finally, I would like to support the exceptions to the obligation to use the plastic money, but I have seen that they have been accepted. I would, however, like, Minister, in your presence, to include in the exceptions to small villages that do not have Internet. Before I get off this Step, I would like to stand on two separate measures which I think deserve special reference. The first is the compulsory payment of payroll through the bank. Such a provision meets a world's demand for work and has been identified by a number of institutions and studies as necessary. Workers will now be able to be more secure against late payment and claim of their employees. The second concerns the arrangements for the short-term rental of immovable property. I am referring to Rule 112. This provision attempts to create a regulatory framework and concerns the monitoring and control of the rental of immovable property either via the Internet or another means. This issue has been very concerned, particularly in tourism areas and operators. Of course it's right to have rules here too. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that by voting today's legislation we are taking a positive step, but for the implementation of which we need to run, in order to adopt all the regulatory acts that need to be adopted so that it can be implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u236	Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. These days, both in Parliament and in the public debate, hypocrisy and insults have taken hold. In particular, as regards VAT on the islands, I would say that it is a measure that is unreasonable, because there should be no increased VAT on the islands and should never have been imposed. It is now coming with a medieval measure as a suspension and not as a abolition. Of course, we have heard more promises to our islands. This reminds us a little of 'to burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil'. The islands have been destroyed in the disastrous way the government has managed migration. The economy of the islands has been completely destroyed and we are now coming to legislate on a temporary measure which does not involve all the islands. At the same time as communications, non papers and statements by executives - today we heard Mr Janakopoulos - the SYRIZA Government is constantly asking to know why in the roll-call vote New Democracy voted'represent'. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy had stated that it would vote in favour of the provision, as much as it refers to VAT and aid to pensioners, despite its disagreements and the assurance that on one hand the government will make it and on the other it will put it directly from January 1, 2017. Why, then, did a roll-call vote take place? She didn't happen for retired people. It was because Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos wanted to turn the roll-call vote into a vote of confidence in their government. And don't tell us that she wanted to go to Mrs Merkel, because anyway she would have had the effect of a vote. He just wanted Mr. Tsipras to take the vote of confidence from the opposition to eliminate it politically, subjugate it, nullify it and confuse it for the future. Characteristic is the abstraction of a non paper, where it said that if the opposition voted it should not dare then return to destruction. In other words, she wanted to cleanen her opposition, which she called "Five Columbia" and her leader "Enimaltis". Something reminds us of the past. SYRIZA did not vote for either the social dividend, the suspension of first home auctions, the transfer of students to schools, the exceptions to the pension reductions for the disabled, nor the legal improvements to pay overtime, nor to provide insurance and tax information to “Dynnan” and to the NSAs. You are now bringing an amendment to the effect that you are doing so to pay the workers there, but when a similar provision had been made on our own government you were talking about parliamentary coups. You had reached the point where you did not vote on the provision - because it was an amendment to the PPP - for the continued operation of the Philatelic Post Museum. SYRIZA spoke, when he referred to the social dividend for crumbs of natives, defiance stinks, defiance, escapism, escapism, extinction, extinction in the face of Ms. Merkel, false surplus, calamity accounts, surplus of misery, blood of grief and fraud. That's what you said. How many fine words, how many new words, how many shapes of speech you used in the past, for destruction, for impoverishment. The social dividend and surplus have called it a barometer of the pains of the Greek people and fraud. You have of course been justified. And Mr. Tsipras said from this step forward that our government cut off government bills to give that social dividend. The truth is that only in 2016 this SYRIZA - ANEL government has cut off government bills worth 23 billion euros. You have issued, for the last three months alone, 6.3 billion-dollar bills. These are, of course, for the needs of the state. But you said that we cut it to give the social dividend. Tell me who's gonna pay this short-term expensive loan? Not you, but the pensioners you say you are benefiting. Of course you do. You say that we as a New Democracy gave our credentials to the lenders. Mr. Pappas, this is the statue of the perversion, this propaganda dam said today that the New Democracy is a disguise of Shoeble. He made a new perversion and said that the people are entitled to call us "Nightmare". Only the people see you in their worst nightmares anymore. You, Mr. Tsipras, are now the best Mercelists. From the go back we heard Mr. Tsipras say, on 16 December we heard it say "Thank you particularly to Chancellor". Does this thank you to Chancellor? Because you say something about the calls that the New Democracy and its President from Germany receive, I would like to say that Mr Tsipras, this great anti-mergeist, has met with Mrs Merkel 15 times, and she has spoken with her on the phone 17 times. They turn up the phones and you blame us for phone calls?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u238	He's a prime minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u239	Seventeen communications with Ms. Merkel, so we can be Shoeble and Merkel's lips, I think it's going a lot. In fact, in one case, you ask Mr. Tsipras from the journalists if, in his conversation with Mrs. Merkel, he raised the issue of Mr. Shoeble's attitude, Mr. Tsipras said that it was avoided for courtesy reasons. "It is not right," she said, "now to talk to her Minister when we talk to Chancellor. It's not chic. It has nothing like that." And you blame us. One more thing, when Mr Tsipras, speaking to the Party of the European Left in Berlin, said the other day 'we are never going to deliver our people to the 'yes men', what did he mean? With this ever, what did he mean? Chaves? Castle? Madour? Lula? Something like that? When Mr Pappas says today that the New Democracy is not entitled to speak, what does he mean? What purpose do you have? Obviously, you cannot carry them out. This is not Latin America. But you're a Latin American-American party type. So since Mr Chakalotos has given forty a statement of loyalty - take and measure how many times he says that 'the government will agree', 'the government, in agreement with the institutions, etc.'. - So since you have done all this, since you have given the public property for a century to the lenders, you come and blame us and dive every time in the filthy waters of the most nightmareous and splitting past in our modern history to justify. I am presenting for the Minutes all these roll-call votes caused by SYRIZA and any vote of beneficial provisions he has made when he was in opposition. All statements on the surplus and social dividends of 2014 and - because you have just questioned it - the timing of Mr Tsipras' meetings and telephone communications with Mrs Merkel. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. We will give the floor to three ministers, first Mrs Papanatsiou, to put them on a number of amendments - if I understood correctly, Mrs Papanatsiou - and then Mr Muzalas and Mr Santorinios follow. Here you go, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u241	I would like to begin by welcomeing the New Democracy's decision to vote in favour of the article suspending the abolition of reduced VAT rates on the islands. The New Democracy understood its mistake to vote 'at present' in the granting of the thirteenth pension, and now it is doing the right thing. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Let us take a look at the amendment. It is the general number of 837 and special 71, whereby paragraph 4 of Article 21 of Law 2859/2000 is amended as follows: Until 31/12/2017 for the islands of the prefectures - here we want to put a legislative improvement - Lesbos, Chios, Samos, Dodecanese, other than Rhodes and Karpathos, in respect of goods which, at the time the tax becomes chargeable: Firstly, they are located on these islands and are delivered by a taxable person established on these islands. They are sold on these islands by a taxable person established in any part of the country, to a buyer, a taxable person or a non-taxable person established on those islands. They shall be dispatched or transported to a taxable person or to a non-taxable person. Let's also see the legislative improvement. In Amendment No 837 and in Amendment No 71, 19-12-2016, in internal paragraph 4 of Article 21 of Law No 2859/2000, after the word 'countries', the word 'Evros' is added, namely Samothraki, which is the island of Evros, to the islands where the reduced VAT rate is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u242	Why don't you add Karpathos? What's the fault of Carpathus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u243	Because VAT has already been applied there. Well, we're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u244	Do we have any more legislation, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u245	I have two other amendments. In an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u246	I'm sorry to interrupt. Legislative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u247	No, no. I don't have any more of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u248	Whatever legislation you have, and the ones you have already announced, and if you intend to communicate more, put them before you for the minutes, so that they can also share with the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u249	There's no other legislation. I shall refer to the amendment under number 849 and a special 81, to which Mr Karathanasopoulos referred from the JRC. This amendment recasts and legally improves the existing Article 27 of the Code of Income Tax. It starts from 1-1-2014, because from 1-1-2014 Law 4172/2013, i.e. the new Income Tax Code, became applicable. This amendment states that losses arising from foreign business activity through a permanent establishment cannot be used for the calculation of profits of the same tax year or for future profits with the exception of, however, losses from business losses by means of a permanent establishment arising from another European Union country with which Greece has concluded a double tax avoidance agreement, on the basis of which profits from business activities are not exempted. It concerns only the countries of the European Union. In the last amendment, with a general number of 846 and a special 78, it is necessary, because of the start of the electronic submission of the first-class ship tax declaration under Law 27/1975, in this case and on the last day of ship tax enforcement, as well as of the smooth operation of TAXISnet in the electronic reporting process, to allow tax declarations to be submitted at any time and the tax to be paid until the end of the deadline for submitting the relevant declaration regardless of the date of submission. The above rules apply to all cases under Article 14 and Article 19 of Law 27/1975. In the case of a declaration by ships of the first category of Law 27/1975 after 31 December of the year in which the Greek flag was raised, the tax due shall be paid until the end of the time limit for the submission of the declaration, irrespective of the date on which it is submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Minister. Minister, testify to any legalities, please, any corrections made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u251	I've already testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. Mr Santorinios, State Secretary for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not bringing an amendment. I would like to support the amendment to suspend the abolition of VAT deduction on the islands. I consider it to be an important amendment, which comes to help the islands affected by the refugee crisis of the north and eastern Aegean and comes following the Prime Minister's proclamation, but also the island policy measures announced by the Prime Minister from Nisvro. I say "measures of island policy" and not a measure, because for you, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation, the only measure of island policy you knew was the reduction of the special VAT rates, because otherwise your concept of islandity was specific: there was no health on the islands. In the small islands the schools opened in November. The state had completely retired. There wasn't even the great GFOs. We have announced that we will upgrade these GFCFs so they can serve the island's citizens. Because you removed the state from the islands. Because, for us, islandism means that we hired and will hire up to the first half of 2017 a hundred and twelve permanent doctors, a hundred three assistants, a hundred seventy-two staff. Because, for us, health means adding increased economic and grading criteria, so that agricultural doctors can go to the islands. Because for us, health means that we have completed the telemedicine network and can finally operate a real telemedicine network on the islands. Because, for us, it means opening on September 11th, as they opened this year, not November. And why, for us, it means bringing growth to the islands, and that is why we announced the special operational programme for the south and for the northern Aegean, with initially EUR 50 million, which may be more than that from the Public Investment Programme. Let me remind you that it was a programme that you had started for the southern Aegean and on the substance it never worked and for the northern Aegean you had never brought it. But it is worth it at this stage and because a paraphilogy has been developed, we have to say something. And the Prime Minister's stake and his statements from Niserro were talking about suspending the abolition of the discount on the islands where VAT had not been abolished. Obviously, it's unfair. It's unfair to Rhodes and Karpathos, who had refugee flows. However, the reality that the return of the special VAT rates to these islands would jeopardise the negotiation as a whole, and that is what I think no one wants at the moment. And he would finally put all the islands in danger. No one wants that right now. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that on page 27, on point 5, on e-mail Hardouvelis, you were essentially talking about the removal of these special VAT arrangements. Don't forget. And it was what you suggested. Think what would come next. However, because time has passed - thank you, Mr President - I will end with this: for us, islandism is not over here. For us, island policies are our daily concern. I invite you to fight together for the islands both against the harsh reality and against the institutional problems we find. I therefore urge you to come with us to the proposal we are making in the European Union in order to have a specific, European, island framework and to have a specific framework for the financing of the islands in the next programming period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. The Minister for Migration Policy has the floor, Mr Mousal, to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an amendment, two provisions. The first is a request from all the legal associations of the country and concerns residence permits, which are received from the central agency of the Ministry and transferred to the decentralised services. This will facilitate those who are applying for a residence permit, who are forced to come from Evros, from Mytilini, from anywhere, in Athens, their lawyers and to facilitate the issue of residence permits. At the moment we have found and the number of pending applications has reached twenty and a half thousand. Eight employees are handling them. Every day we receive about a hundred and every day some fifteen decisions are made. So this mess is going to be a constant burden on the situation. We're making this transfer and please accept it. All lawyers are in agreement with this and their decisions are unanimous. And because many of you are legal here, I think you can understand benefactors. The second article is indecent. Because of the circumstances, the journeys I am obliged to make in the European Union and other countries because of the refugee problem - always institutional and always concerns me and not my partners - have exceeded the number of journeys provided. I would ask that this be accepted for the past and for the future, and I hope in the future that there will be no more need for such journeys and stop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I will try to respect fully the time. Because I do not understand the number of speakers and the programming of the sitting this evening. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me for telling you this, but first of all, the government is violating the Constitution in a way that is barbarically and unprecedented. You do not need to be a constitutionalist to remember the provision of Article 74 of the Constitution which imposes a specific procedure for tabling amendments and, indeed, ministerial amendments. What is happening here is directly in breach of Rule 74 and Rule 28 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The government is totally unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. There are either election thoughts or there is no single excuse in this current misery. The law of the Minister of Justice - to which I awarded the title of the great sealer last time, not only in the sense that he has the seal outside his office but that he observes the lawfulness, that is the notion that he has the seal - it is actually going to be an example that will be taught and distributed to the legal schools of the country on how legislative power is mocking itself first and then democracy. These things you do are not serious, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Of course, the government's majority also has a great responsibility if it votes. Here comes a whole series of provisions of all moral nature - I shall refer to them because I say 'every morality' - I have not missed all sorts of things. What's this? There are two provisions of the Ministry of Finance. One is for compensation for damages, and the other is for ship tax. There are provisions for biofuels, provisions for direct distribution by the EOT, twenty-four pages for medicines. What are these things? Where did these things come from? How can you legislate like this? Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a debate with the President of the House on this. I would like to tell you that if you do not go to elections, at the beginning of next year, a big issue will arise from New Democracy in this and you will find us completely across the street. This type of legislative procedure, ladies and gentlemen of the government will stop. It is a mistake to the national Parliament. If the majority cannot understand it, then the minority must stop it. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are all laughing at ourselves. Understood, everyone! I now come to the question of the provisions. Madam Minister, you have asked us before - I will take a little, because time is not sufficient - to amend Article 27(4) of the Act. 4172/2013. And you've explained to us why there's retroactive power over 1-1-2014. First of all, I ask you directly: What does this provision cover? What cases does it cover? To understand what's going on here, ladies and gentlemen. What business do they want to offset damage and you have to go back to 2014? Who asked you for the order? From what service documents does its need arise? Can you testify to us something? I ask you directly: do you have anything to testify to us here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u258	Do I have to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u259	You'll answer when you want. Can I tell you something more? There is a back-up report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Look at her. It says two contradictory things - and I will tell you why it says two contradictory things - which make the provision annulled at the end. You know, to do this, you should know a little bit about it. Firstly, it says, there is no expenditure or a loss of revenue from the State budget. There may be an improvement in revenue - that is, to make more money - by clarifying the conditions for the calculation of profits. If revenue is improved, it means an increase in taxation. Right? Is that so? We understand that. The provision of the Constitution in Article 78 that forbids the retroactiveness of the tax law beyond the year do you know it? How then does this device go back to 1-1-2014? What's behind it? Or this provision is favourable to taxpayers, and it needs to be explained why it comes here - because I do not imagine that the Greek state has any real prerogative to justify damage, which is done abroad, when it is intended to prevent the relocation of businesses. It's obvious. Isn't that right? So here either you favour businesses or the provision is void. Thirdly, what is not given, ladies and gentlemen? Besides, let's go to the rest. I've consumed half a year, before I went to island. You bring a provision to the main piece of legislation, Minister of Justice, 20 more people in the Directorate-General for Corruption. I think we all share the objective of combating corruption. Firstly, I told you before, provisions like these and some others that are in here do not at all serve the question of corruption, but rather cause it. But, besides that, if we have to appoint people, it is not wiser to appoint them to the public prosecutors, who have no secretariat, to help the prosecutors to do their job, those who are really fighting corruption on a daily basis and to leave the secretaries and everything there are. To recruit people who serve the justice and judicial mechanisms of the country, Minister of Justice. Isn't that the right thing to do, isn't that the priority? You leave the country's prosecutors naked and you hire people to central bodies, to general secretariats at the Ministry? Is that your priority? I'm coming to island. We heard a number of cute things from the government about this provision and told us that the New Democracy, etc., is being expelled. This provision that you have brought to us will be voted on, we have told you. Now let's go tell you what you did with your new intelligence. Because now when a government reaches a full dissolution stage, it becomes dangerous to itself and to the country. Do you know what the government does with this provision? It dissolves the link between the special relationship between islandity and the tax provisions, why do you know what it is invoking? It does not invoke the islands, which were always the weapon for the special treatment of the islands, but it says in the report: "With the exception of the islands of the country's eastern borders, which are affected by the refugee crisis". The cause of the different treatment of the islands is not the islands itself - I will tell you how it is guaranteed and how the government has again managed to make it abundant - but it is the refugee crisis, which means when the refugee crisis is extinguished, that any Greek government is not entitled to demand special treatment for the islands. When the Prime Minister was preparing to go to Nisser, ladies and gentlemen - we started this story by George Papandreou with the nice scenery - remember the original announcement that he had told us that he would announce such an arrangement for islands? Would you like to take a look at the constitution of the country? The Constitution of the country provides for two provisions on islands. I have once proposed the amendment to the Constitution, Article 101(4), which requires the administration to take account of island status into account in its regulations. In addition to Article 101(4), there is also Article 106(1) which also imposes obligations on the State. In addition, there is also Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which also requires. And you come and tell us you're going to guarantee islandity. And since, without even having read the Greek Constitution, you make statements, then you come and catalyse its very basis with this amendment. Couldn't you formulate it at least better? But what can you do better, ladies and gentlemen? Here, in the previous amendment to the explanatory memorandum, it has been forgotten that even the article you are amending has been written. Please check it, write the paragraph without the article, the article comes from reading the text afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, time is very limited today and is very tiring for all of you tonight. But, one thing, please honestly, try to do and I refer to the majority. Protect, as much as the conscience of each of you allows you, the seriousness of the national delegation. With this legislative work, the government leads legislative power to full ridicule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, first to restore the truth to some things. Of course, I'm going to talk about VAT on islands as an island, since we don't have time for the rest. It was said that only for one year will the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT be suspended on the islands. We all understand that this is a purely technical issue, it could not be done indefinitely at this stage as a suspension, and in particular the older people are well aware of it. Something else has been said and announced by the media that the reduced rate for tobacco is not wrong in transport too. It is not badly true, but this is simply transferred from the previous provisions. Even years ago, when the reduced VAT rate applied to all islands, there was never a reduced rate for transport. Illegal, we've stressed it again and again. Also, to mention that last time the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said that this suspension is based on the refugee, badly, but, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that at this time, at this stage we could do differently? Do you think it's easy when you negotiate to close the second evaluation with some measures, to raise a question of not implementing things that you agreed to before? Shouldn't you just justify it? It is at the moment an excuse, that is to say, so that we can get this suspension here, which we all need. But you will allow me to go ahead with a revelation of the dreadful hypocrisy we face in here today. It is a terrible hypocrisy that the opposition should abrogate us that we are not closing the second assessment, that we are delaying, and that, with these acts, with the Prime Minister's announcements and with the thirteenth pension and with the suspension of the application of the increased VAT rate to the islands, we put the negotiation at risk and come here with pillistic proposals, which overthrow not only what we are currently discussing, but also overthrow the whole agreement that we have signed - which we have had to sign. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I'm sorry, something's bothering you, a terrible mutter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u262	You're right, Mr. Kamaterre. The Bureau is trying to manage both the time and the number of speakers and we are in a general consultation with the President. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u263	Thank you. So I was saying that it is a terrible hypocrisy on the one hand to accuse us of not closing the evaluation and, on the other hand, to submit us with a pillaging request. Who? These, who so far, as the Minister said, acted as if the only measure of island status they knew were the reduced rates of VAT. Have they ever been involved in islands in general? Let me here prove to you that neoliberal policy cannot seriously deal with islands and give a solution to the problems. And it cannot, because insularity - as social inequalities are created through a specific policy, so also inequality is created by the nature of islands - is based on an exclusion that the islands have. It creates an exclusion of people from basic social goods, from transport, from access to services, from health, from education. These differences here are not of interest to neoliberal policy. On the contrary. Do you think the neoliberal policy is interested in finding doctors for the smaller islands? He's got rules. We have so many doctors per a thousand inhabitants. It's no good having doctors on small islands. A lot more that can only be done through a healthy national health system. But we know neoliberal policy. It dissolves public health and private enterprises develop. On an island of thirty thousand inhabitants right now we have four major diagnostic centers when we strive to have doctors. So we expect this policy to bring us a doctor to the rural office on the island of three hundred people? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Education, what are we waiting for? We expect it to be taken into account that we cannot have teachers or teachers in classes with twenty-five children, but should we have fewer? What are we waiting for? We expect it to give a solution to the transport when it takes over a four-member family from the island to the center, over a grand? I've said it before, but it's typical and I'll say it again. A dull from China to Piraeus costs 500 euros to come from Piraeus to the island over 1,500 euros! After they have created the monopolies, the ferry companies, as they dismantle cooperatives, since they dismantle small ferry companies, municipal, small locals that help in the inland transport. Are we expecting them to do it? Do you know why they're interested only? They are interested in how to serve the great profit. Look out, I'm not saying the profit in general. We have now reached the stage of the big profit, how they will serve the great profit. How do they do it? We want hotel officials, for example, in the islands that are now at EUR 500 600 to take them down. We don't want any contracts. This is neoliberal policy. We are subsidised to make even more and larger hotels without any interest in lifting the island. In other words, big capital is interested in exploiting and exploiting wealth from the islands, wanting the inhabitants, the island slaves. You may find the conversation I'm saying a lot, but what do you think? There are currently no servants of those who have the villas to support them on the islands? Don't look too big here. This is neoliberal policy. To remove islands, it has a cost. Is that the cost? Who are we waiting to pay for it? Those who want to win? No, only one rule of law, only the Left can manage this problem. Only the Left can give solutions and relieve the islanders. Because it needs a redistribution of income, it needs a state, as I said before, which will have a national health system. We need a state that has a system of education that is so strong and that private initiative will not only develop. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Just a word. That is why we islanders and VAT want for all the islands, and we will fight and fight to keep them, because it is the only measure that we have taken to date, but we will also continue to fight to broaden the issue of islands, the policy of islandity, to which the Prime Minister from Nisser and Tilos has referred, because only from this government, we can expect it from a left-wing government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u264	Thank you. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current bill contains two sections. The first concerns the reform of bankruptcy law, the rationalisation and speeding up of administrative proceedings, the rationalisation of offenders, the fees of legal aid, legal remedies and procedural acts. The second concerns the rationalisation of taxation in order to simplify the procedures for the payment and collection of taxes and to limit tax evasion. All this is done in such a way that the legislative framework corresponds to the new economic and social data, which have been shaped in particular by the violent transformation of the Greek economy and the Greek society in recent years of the crisis and the memoranda, but also by the ideological and practical concept of the government in dealing with and especially overcoming the crisis and the decommissioning of the country from the Memorandum Policies. In this context, this draft law seeks to take all those necessary measures that will block or at least limit the effects of the private debt crisis, which has direct consequences for people, employment and business. The Government attempts to strike a fair balance (weighting) between interests, the protection of the weak and the restoration of social peace, a series of new institutional arrangements of bankruptcy law, the role of which is important for the functioning of the economy. This is because bankruptcy law regulates the judiciary of exiting the market, but also the return to the markets of all those who had a misfortune in economic life because of the crisis and have no particular responsibility. The proposed provisions of the amendment to bankruptcy law are on the basis of three axes: The first axis is to increase efficiency and to shorten the deadlines for the bankruptcy procedure, so that for non-viable enterprises bankruptcy can be completed in a reasonable time, and for sustainable life-saving mechanisms to be applied quickly. In the context of a shorter procedure, the judicial pre-examination of the reorganisation plan of undertakings shall be abolished. The involvement of the court is limited to that extent in order to ensure the rights of those affected by the reorganisation plan. In addition, the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is transferred to the rapporteur - judge, in order to limit the time-limits for carrying out procedural and procedural proceedings. Secondly, the provision of a second chance to natural debtors who have been bankrupt without being subject to mistrust. Where the bankruptcy court decides that the debtor is acquainted, assessing the causes and circumstances of bankruptcy, it shall completely exempt the debtor from the balance of the claims of the creditors, which are not satisfied with the bankruptcy after two years after the bankruptcy has been completed, otherwise. The institution of the exemption is expected to act beneficially in the direction of restoring many businessmen affected by the economic crisis who have to be subject to and subject to bankruptcy, in spite of all honest efforts to avoid it and who are faced with situations equivalent to trade death. The third axis concerns the strengthening of the renovation of sustainable enterprises. More generally, the amendment to the resolution process aims to promote the early rescue of viable enterprises so that combined with the introduction of the exemption institution to make the provision of a second chance to enterprises with beneficial results for the maintenance of jobs, while contributing to the problem of non-performing loans for lenders and debtors. With regard to the provisions of the administrative proceedings, care shall be taken to protect the rights of the parties more fully, faster and more effectively, and to rationalise the procedures both in the Council of State and in the ordinary administrative courts. Moreover, a third chapter relates to the overall improvement of justice by rationalising judicial fees and the sharp reduction of infringements in many procedural acts. This provides for the abolition of the judiciary in the actions, which was a constant request for years, not only of the law, but also of the country's entire legal world. It recommended that such a choice be made, i.e. that a judicial mark be paid to actions which do not produce an enforceable title. Apart from the abolition of the judicial order, we also have a reduction in half of the court order on disputes in civil proceedings before the Court of First Instance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. An important provision is that, as judges, in the architectures of collective bodies, only lawyers are appointed. The purpose of this provision is to remove judicial officers from their judicial obligations, since the current conditions in the field of justice combined with the low rate of winding up of cases and the adoption of judgments stress the commitment of the judiciaries to their main work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u266	Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u267	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u268	And you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u269	Yeah, yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u270	What is the practical result?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u271	Now, I'm just finishing up. Therefore, these arrangements remove judges from the main tasks and fully meet the needs of Greek society, as well as the competence, duties and social formation of lawyers. This means that the real scientific and social role of lawyers, who are unpaid public officials and who can preserve the public interest, is recognised. Mr President, I should like to end by saying this:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u272	Not rhetorically to finish, but literally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation to suspend the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands, which have lifted the burden of the refugee crisis, with the already adopted regulation on the financial support for low-wage pensioners, is a single set. In the vote on this regulation for the low pensioners, the New Democracy was absent, negative, because it was "consistent with the suggestions" of the IMF and the extreme circles of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u274	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u275	Perhaps this order of compliance was not needed, since the New Democracy was in favour, adopted and matched with the policies of neoliberalism. Both regulations, which constitute a whole, as I have said, highlight the social nature of government policy within the framework of the harsh budgetary constraints that apply. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of the planning of the country's institutional and socially just productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, too. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u277	First of all, I would like to start by saying that for the Golden Dawn it is a huge success that the Minister accepted, as he had to, to withdraw the shameful article 56A that wanted to cover some particular folklore from the games that had taken place in Athens in 1997, the World Athletics. We had mentioned in detail about what had happened at the time and the fact that in 2014 all parties in the Greek Parliament, with a vile real amendment signed by some Members, wanted to cover this scandal. Fortunately, there have been judges who honour their duties and have been responsible. With the intervention of the Golden Dawn, this scandal has not been muddled, but they will yield 30m euros to the Greek people. The Golden Dawn will continue to be in here and with the race it will make constant scandals in the light of publicity and from there and we hope at some point that everything will take their way. Let us stress that we do not want anyone to be punished innocent, we do not want everyone to go to court and be convicted. Because we know very well what injustice and collective responsibility you've blamed us. But, we're not like you. We want the burdens to be rightly attributed where they are due. So these people have to go because we have learned that they have already been sent out of court, and they have to pay back what they have to do to the Greek public. As far as this bill is concerned, I will start by saying that the Golden Dawn has tabled an amendment - and here you are as ministers and as government of Greece, since we are interested in the interest and the partition of ordinary citizens - which is about the positions of workers in Parnitha's casino. It is about a thousand and a hundred people working there who are at risk of losing their place if certain issues are not complied with. We therefore put forward an amendment and ask you to approve it, saying that the people who work today at the casino will continue to keep their jobs to feed their family. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, tables for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I continue to say that we have heard enough noise about VAT in the islands for many days now. The government is trying to throw ash in the eyes of the world. Of course we all know very well that it is not a solution to keep VAT for just one year on specific islands. This is a misunderstanding that you are trying to make in the world, the islanders who are under enormous pressure and threat from illegal immigrants who have flooded their areas and want to keep them a little bit. We, as Golden Dawn, had tabled on Thursday an amendment saying that VAT should remain stable for all the islands and not just for a year, as you do. Here, then, we need to see if you want to apply this as well. Here we see if you want and you are really in favour of the Greek citizens who are stirring up by thousands of problems. Golden Dawn brings such amendments, which concern the entire Greek people, the entire population, which is being tested very hard. So in this bill, we are also dealing with so-called 'plastic' money. What does the government want to do and what do the governments of all countries want to do in this? And we wonder how you leftists, the humanists don't see it. You want there to be full control of all citizens. You want to trade only through "plastic" money, only by card, so that we can be directly all under full control and monitoring. He is the new "Great Brother", who comes, the "big eye", which will be watched above all and everything. The Golden Dawn, of course, cannot agree with this, with a shameful measure like this, and we wonder how you want to pass it. It's really disgusting, it's inhuman to control every man for every transaction he has, for whatever he does. There is full control of the life, personal data of each of us. Members in the Greek Parliament should have reacted and not voted for it. There are ways to solve the tax evasion. There are ways of stopping 'black' money. That's what we want as Golden Dawn. But this must not be done at the expense of the freedom of every man. We must not at all become a robot, which will be released, according to the jewels of the new class of people. It is not the average Greek, every Greek to become a neotatist without principles, without a view, without religion, without love for the homeland, who will only produce, consume and buy. It's a disgrace! It's not possible! The Greek Parliament must react. Not every one of us can be directly controlled. We also see that this bill says that we bring it to defend some people, some vulnerable groups, but here there are abusive articles. I will tell you about Article 14(3), which says that if anyone goes to a court and loses a court case he has, then if the document he has been found to be greater than the permitted person, this man, except that he will have lost his trial, will have to pay extra. So we make every Greek citizen afraid, going to a court, going to expose his views to a document, about what he's going to say. There's a matter here. Justice is not a kind of luxury, as it is slowly going to happen. A man cannot go to express his views, who may be wronged for the charges at his expense and be afraid of what they will write in his book. It's unacceptable! Also in Part Three, in Articles 36 to 38, there is a financial burden if someone asks to postpone, without checking how and why this man is asking for deferral. One goes as it is today, and for alpha or beta reason either because his lawyer can't, or because he can't at that particular moment and ask for a postponement. This man must pay. Where's that thing going? So justice will only be done for those who have money? Only will they be able to find their point in justice in Greece today? Unacceptable incidents! And I would like to finish, referring to two, three things of time. One - and most importantly - is that today the leader of the third parliamentary power in our home country, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, as we have the right to Golden Dawn, made a speech to his parliamentary group. For the first time, the ERT has done this inadmissible: it has not transmitted this speech from our Chief. It did not pass the parliamentary speech once a month, as it is required. This is your democracy! These are the new institutions! Let's see what the EPP is going to do, see if it's going to take a stand on what happened. I repeat, there are journalists who give the floor to the Turkish-phile DEB to hold meetings within their enthusiasm and to speak of a Turkish minority. There is the right to speak and they can talk and tell us about a Turkish minority in Thrace. The Head of the Third Parliamentary Force does not have the right to speak and to transmit their speech live, as is the obligation of the ERT. I will finish by reminding you of something as Golden Dawn: we have suffered a lot of persecution for our minds and our ideas, whether you agree or not you disagree. And thank God you disagree with them. From there on, to stop us and humiliate us, don't let...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u278	Finish, because your time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u279	Yeah, yeah, soon you won't allow us to talk in here. This fact, that you are trying not to allow the voice of Golden Dawn to be heard, shows who the racism that exists today in Greece is, who it is and who it is. However, we shall be saying this: we have not been stopped by any more and of course we cannot be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u280	With the consent of the House, we determine the speaking time at five minutes. Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u281	In my time, unfortunately, I will only speak about the amendment concerning the VAT of the islands. The subject comes in a bill which includes many things that have been delayed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a few comments on extracts from speeches from previous speakers. Mr. Danellis spoke of a fair request. I think we all share that. But I have heard the New Democracy Members talking about everything that is happening these days and about reduced VAT. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is politically paradoxical to invoke a few days before the amendment on aid is voted on, the allowance to the low pensioners - I will not speak of a tenth pension - because the country is in danger of getting out of agreement, but of maintaining the reduced VAT on some of our islands, whose abolition is provided for by the agreement, of coming here today and saying that you are politically voting on it. You are inconsistent politically as neoliberal. I would like to remind Mr Dendia that L.4334/2015 and L.4336/2015, which were voted by a large majority and which provided for the abolition of reduced VAT rates on the islands a year ago, i.e. at the beginning of 2016, should have been abolished everywhere - had voted on them. It is supreme hypocrisy to come here and tell us that we are blocking islands and that we should rely on it. Obviously, we have in mind islandity. Obviously it is the first government to try to build and implement an island policy. But with half the readings of the explanatory statement and of the amendment, if nothing more than hypocrisy, I can blame you. I would like to add, with regard to the paradoxes that we hear here. Ms. Vulture accuses us of mercanism, while at the same time she says that we are Latin-American smugglers. Finally, decide what you are, what policy you want to propose to society and leave us. We are consistent with our partners and we are claiming for the first time and conquering what you have not dared to do. Let me remind you of the reduced VAT, that it was conquered by struggles of masses of islands, of all democratic forces, with the islands closed down. You benefit from this procedure on the grounds that we exclude islands. Reduced VAT managed to get him by the islanders at the time. But you come here at the same time and tell us about the arguments. Do you know what you've set up, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you're not from the islands? You have set up a supposed movement of factors that belong ideologically to you or are even members of your parties, who are one with the insurance, one with the refugee, one with the reduced VAT now, trying to create situations of tension on the line of New Democracy - and some of PASOK recently - at the request of the elections. You send letters to the Members - with an amendment that had not been here until then - that they are declared unwanted on the islands if they do not vote on it. Unfortunately, these days you have been exposed and forced to vote in favour of this amendment, because your Members who have given the factors of the islands to abdicate us and to qualify us as unwanted, have been forced to obey the mandate they gave and to vote for the amendment. We've been gathering evidence all this time, in cooperation with the agencies. We have been giving arguments to the government with low tones, with moderate optimism, as we have been saying all this time, in order to support this request, because we want to maintain VAT on the islands. In particular, the islands of the Eastern Aegean cannot at present, with the absolute lack of politics, compensate for the dissatisfaction. I will make two more comments, Mr President, and I will close. I heard Mr. Kremastino say he wants to be competitive over the Turkish coast. We must realise that, with all the things that are going on in the neighbouring country, we must not look at competitiveness, but how in a common neighbourhood we will develop peacefully for the benefit of the peoples who live in the wider region. It is also oxymobile to demand equivalents and at the same time to maintain VAT. Or equivalent will you ask for and insist on a VAT elimination policy, according to Hardouvelis mail at the time you were government or you will ask for maintenance. Pick what you get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, too. Mr. Fortsakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. In five minutes, I'll focus very quickly: First of all, I would like to repeat the complaint that we have a bill'sweeping' containing everything, the Banking Code, Administrative Justice, undeclared income, and amendments'rain'. The whole conception and the whole arrangement are, unfortunately, very rough and it comes too late. I shall refer to three points: Point one, voluntary disclosure of income. I would first like to point out that there is a statement of revenue that has not been declared in the past, but that there is no record. We do not know, that is, what the real income is, what the unregulated income is in the past. Is it covered? At least there could be some more demand. I should like to point out here that as a tax agent, I am totally negative in the arrangements that cover tax-raisers. This regulation, like the repeated closures that have taken place in the past, is negative because it brings the state money for a certain time, but it is addicting citizens to not paying and thinking that there will be some time to come a regulation which - like this one - makes it more interesting not to pay taxes than to pay them. It is a real pity that the state is acting in such a way as to fill its funds and does not think that it should have a code of conduct, even in the collection of tax revenues. However, even if someone goes into the government's logic, that we should in every way collect money, the way in which the mechanism has been set up is not attractive to those who are going to go and have not paid what they have had to pay for a long time, because I doubt anyone will come to pay, knowing that they can reach up to 60% of what they have given the state. So if anyone goes into this logic, which I consider to be unacceptable, at least set it up properly. Also, the difference between 8% and 10% is totally unjustified, because I do not see what the state will gain - nor if it has calculated that something will be won - if anyone declares before 31 May or not those incomes, which they have not declared. It is not an end in itself, nor should it be punishable for no reason. Point two, plastic money. Greece is a pig in e-commerce, behind every other European country. We have seen lastly - we have read it in the newspapers - that the increase of more than 1% in the use of plastic money has led to an increase of at least 1% in the collection of the VAT in question. That shows what a road we have to follow. The New Democracy had in the past presented a comprehensive proposal on plastic money. Unfortunately, we do not see an integrated reform today, except for fragmentary regulations. They are not really, in fact, motivated. Only the penalty inducement shall be given in case of non-compliance. The main incentive would be to tax the consumer. This is where I draw attention to the problem of bank supplies, which must definitely be regulated, because otherwise it is not possible for the use of plastic money to spread. I stress the need to establish mandatory electronic invoicing between businesses, but also with suppliers of public and local government, while transferring the data to the General Secretariat, so that it can monitor what is happening. I would stress that we need to resolve the problem of those excluded from the banking system. I would like to point out that the deadline for setting up electronic terminals should not be assigned to a ministerial decision, but set by the bill. I would also like to point out, in particular, that no care is taken for older people and people with disabilities and, of course, no care is taken for those who cannot reach the terminals, for those who are disabled, for wheelchairs and have no opportunity to reach either the terminals or the banks' guises. Also, if there is no bank unsupervised bank account, there can be no solution to the problem of a million six hundred thousand debtors for whom measures have been taken. The number of debtors is four and a half million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We should also think that the bill should have regulated many other issues relating to plastic money, and it should have a philosophy, if you like, that is much wider, which considers plastic money not only as a means of stimulating public revenue, not only as a means of combating tax evasion, but also as a development tool. Point 3, for less than thirty seconds, is the public accounting. The audit of expenditure, but also the issue of cash orders, will only be carried out by the ministries' financial services. The Financial Control Services are repealed. This is a follow-up to what was already under way in 2014 with L.4270. Articles 79 and 82(3) are problematic because it appears that orders which are not repaid through the Single Payments Authority will only be sent to the Court of Auditors for repressive control and not for preventive purposes. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u284	Complete, Your Honour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u285	I'll be out in two seconds. The provision of Article 94 is also negative, with a view to derogating from expenditure. Finally, Article 102 of the bill is incomplete, at least of which should have been excluded from those who have escaped tax in the past. It is a pity, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are forced to vote on such provisions, which, in the final analysis, are strengthening the tax-raisers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u286	And it's too bad time's over. Thank you very much. The Minister, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, a vote was taken a short time ago and we did not agree to reduce the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u288	You were out of the hall. It is the House that is in the Chamber. You were out of Halloween and were not included.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u289	Did you vote again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u290	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u291	What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u292	It was a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u293	That's right. There are also votes in democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u294	You have the floor, Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to a number of points in the law that have also been dealt with by other speakers. First of all, I would like to refer to Rule 56a. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first debate on the committee responsible, the government has said that this provision was brought to it not by amendment but incorporated into the bill, precisely in order for the Members of Parliament to take into account its content, to place the parties and to judge. It was a provision, in our view, which puts a stop to impunity and complexity. Because, when we have a 20-year-old limitation, you realise that at the end of this story no one will be held accountable, rather than the best of intentions. We note that a number of months ago the Council of State had also adopted a decision on the reasonableness of limitation periods. That is why, in line with the decisions of the Supreme Court and the situation which prevailed, we have taken this initiative and said that if there is a broad consensus of Parliament's parties on the introduction of this measure, then the government is happy to recommend it and will vote in favour of it. I say this because, while so far there has been this opinion, that the order will be voted on, some parties have retreated. We will continue to detect the possibilities of consensus on such serious issues. I would like to stress that the linking of this provision to Athens 1997 is at least unfortunate. Why am I saying that? Because in the case of 'Athena 1997' there is no criminal offence, there is no theft or misappropriation, as it had claimed on Friday - fortunately it did not today - the representative of the Golden Dawn. There's been overrun. I would therefore like to say that in a process in which the House draws a red line with the sinful past, all parties should be able to help this effort. We believe that, in a reasonable period of time, what we are calling for and what the government has been proposing today, when the decision of the Council of State for a reasonable period of limitation will be immediately implemented in such cases and then all of us will be remembered. The second point I wanted to make concerns Article 56. The honourable Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Dendias, said that we are making some transfers of officials to serve the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption and we are not taking the big steps towards strengthening the country's prosecutors and courts. I am impressed by this report, because on Saturday, in the presence of Mr. Dendia, the government, by me, stated, with the categoricalness and clarity of my statement, that by the end of the summer of 2017 the government will have completed the law of the judiciary. Today, the government is being called upon - at the moment it had announced this - with a time-limit for legislating - because it does not reinforce the public prosecutors, at the moment, when we have announced in the last period that all prosecutors from all levels, from the public prosecutor to the public prosecutor of the Ice Bay, will be strengthened. Not only that, but they will be reinforced with staff. There is already the procedure of three hundred employees and the recruitment of another four hundred has been launched. But what is the worst thing, ladies and gentlemen? The law on the Judiciary, which we said we would conclude by the end of next year, 2017, had been announced by the Government of New Democracy in 1992. Here is the clear question: So many years have New Democracy and PASOK, which was running, unable to launch, complete and implement a measure that we all know is a measure of upgrading the quality, work and level of judicial and public prosecutors? Why such hypocrisy and even at a time when ten days ago the government announced what it was going to say? So here, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only evading, but we are trying, running behind the facts, to create impressions. I think that the country's legal and judicial world since last Saturday knows very well what the process of legislating and completing this case will be. There has been a great deal of talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the paradoxes. First of all, let's make something clear. Are paradoxes reduced or increased? Because here some have claimed that they are growing or, at best, that there is a balance. Well, we're abolishing the judiciary's lawsuits, which we haven't yet understood, or rather we're all suspicious, because the previous government had introduced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u296	We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u297	We know. Not to mention the well-known popular word. We knew. In order to prevent citizens from bringing an acknowledgment against the German State in cases pending from the period of occupation. This was not supposed to be public revenue, which would, anyway, not be collected when the request was turned into a voter. So that was the point of the case. We are now abolishing it. Secondly, the paradox of suing and presenting a political appeal for racist offences is completely abolished. Some people override that. Thirdly, half of the legal document - take note of labour disputes - is being reduced. Everyone can say that I want it to be abolished all the time. We want it, too. The question is, if that is possible. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u298	However, it is such a pressure of time, which dentistry is a luxury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u299	I understand that, but at least give an answer to what has been heard. I won't say anything more. As regards deferrals, which is paradoxical, I also spoke on Friday. I told you that we are mainly interested in combating the pathogenesis and abuse of rights in the field of justice. You all know very well that there is even a postponement industry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u300	Put a cap on it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u301	Please! Because you're a former policeman, don't interfere with legal matters. You're listening first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u302	And we're justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u303	Watch out. What I would like to stress is that this money - and I say this to my fellow lawyers too - will all be directed to the legal aid account, so that citizens can have a decent legal representation, and of course the legal representative will also have the opportunity to have a decent reward. This, even the President of the Athens Bar Association, is bypassing it in his problem. Because I have seen a relevant communication today. So this money and the weak citizen also helps and ensures a decent legal reward. We are also talking here about debt and rights. What rights, ladies and gentlemen? When a case is determined to be tried in two and a half years, three and four, is there a reason to postpone? Doesn't anyone know he doesn't have his case to be tried? Do you not understand the serious problem that arises and is led, through postponements, even by limitations? The last thing I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, is on the question of Article 52. The government, as I have said, is insisting entirely on this provision, because the country's law-makers are, in fact, at the moment. However, I would like to say to you and to read the law in Article 14, which some have said - the representative of the Golden Dawn said very aggression - that we will be costing this document of the loser party and impose it over and above costs. What does the layout say? Note: ‘The increased judicial expenditure referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall also be imposed on the party who has been lost, if the court judged so decides, ‘his application exceeds the necessary measure’, i.e. there is a need to state ‘in view of the legal aid or the issues’. There must be weighting, there must be a decision on this. It is not anyone who loses, because he has said a lot, that he will pay more, because he can say too much, which does not go beyond what is laid down by the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u304	Minister, if we can make a time-weight, it would be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u305	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that these measures, which we are taking today, must be read and judged on the basis of what the bill says, not on the basis of what we imagine. Let's all see where each line is headed and what he's trying to serve. And what we are deleting as funds, which the previous governments have voted on, and what we are establishing to speed up the process, help our weak fellow citizens, who want to resort to justice and cannot, and the dignified reward of lawyers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u306	So do we. Ms. Papanatsiou has some sort of legislative improvement to do. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u307	By mistake to the legislative improvement number 19 deleted and the reference to n.4174/2013. Nothing else. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u308	The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I was not going to take the floor, in addition to a detailed reference to the articles in the draft legislation I made in the Friday's plenary, which we had the debate at first reading. I did not intend to take the floor today if certain members of the Officerial Responsibility had not been in advance in relation to the announcements made by the Government of VAT on the islands and the thirteenth pension, which has been made so much. First of all, I should like to begin with some of the points made by the previous speakers in the House. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to welcome and amazed at the amendments which have been put forward here by the Ministers and Members of Parliament, and I would like to remind you that for your day it was not an exception, but it was a norm for acts of legislation, bills of post-nights with a three-digit number of amendments, most of which were not subject to consultation and the adoption of bread and other amendments. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased A grief great for the unjustly lifting of the special VAT system on the islands, which was part of an agreement which we did not choose, but which was imposed on us. I would remind you, however, that the e-mail Hardouvelis, which you will do well to read it again, already in this e-mail provided for the lifting of the special VAT arrangements on the islands and you had already thrown it north on the lenders. So the tears, crocodile. For islands, the category of islands, yes, it is a constitutionally based concept and it is provided for in the article of the Constitution. Only, if it is not an article of the Constitution, do some political steps need to be taken. What direction did you take? To exhaust - as the Deputy Minister of Island Policy pointed out - islands and policies on insularity in VAT alone? What about the schools? With the subordinated hospitals on the islands? With business, entrepreneurship, the problem of vacancies in schools, teachers? So it's a choice to remember in them too. On the basis of the amendment that we shall be voting on today, I would like to ask what exactly you want. Should the lenders punish Greece? Is the Siomple line to be imposed because this government has decided to support the islands and retired people from over-retirement? Do you have any hope that the national effort to negotiate will fail to return to power, which you think is your own right? One has the feeling that you have decided to play a second role. By lawyers from the canalarchs, you have decided to take the role of localist of the interests of the International Monetary Fund and of German bankers unregulated. You think that with the air of the built polls of the canals and their coordinated propaganda and with the support of the extreme players of Europe, the European conservatives, you will be able to return to power. To do so, of course, you are going to Brussels and you promise not agreements of truth, but disgrace agreements. You would ask the European People's Party to support the involvement in the evaluation, promising that, when you come to power, you will sign it all. You will sign for yourself, if necessary, the reduction of pensions, redundancies, tax reduction and the dismantling of labour rights, so that the International Monetary Fund will also be back and at the same time capitalise on the Greek people's new sacrifices. We, ladies and gentlemen, fought and continue to fight with all our forces in order to overthrow this sacred alliance of neoliberals and neo-conservatives in Europe against Greece, and we have chosen with whom we are, clearly. With the low pensioners and the islanders we are. Who are you with? With the IMF? With the most neo-conservative expressions of banking capital in Europe? With who? The measures we have brought to the vote result from the overpayment of revenue, through the non-tariff measures, based on improved tax compliance and the fight against tax evasion. The New Democracy had failed to achieve these results, because it very simply did not want to hit the tax evasion and preferred to cut costs from schools and hospitals, preferring to cartoon teachers, doctors, cleaners, and offering that bloody surplus to the International Monetary Fund as a ransom for its stay in the chair of power. I ask you: is this suspension of VAT really unnecessary on the islands? Is this allowance inappropriate to pensioners? Who should we listen to exactly? Tomsen, can we hear? Shoeble? The ones who made you sign eleven pension cuts and forty-five thousand redundancies? Is this a unilateral energy? Because we have heard such things: 'necessary energy', 'unionable energy', 'an immoral Greek Prime Minister', 'adolescents'. Is the performance of this surplus by the government, or is your problem resulting from the reduction of tax evasion, which is also your friendly sport of various political friends? With this bill and the amendments to support the citizens who are currently being tested, the government confirms its commitments to an agreement without social demolition. At the same time, it confirms its availability to combat tax evasion and social justice from the surplus of non-monometric revenue receipts. What exactly do you promise? The robbery of the work and the delivery of the loots to the International Monetary Fund? That is what you have done in the past, and that seems to be what you are willingly doing now. I shall conclude, Mr President. The citizens of this country, however, also know who you are and what you want and what interests you represent. Let me close with a good remark. Since you might be called by your foreign interlocutors, it would be good by the vote to close your phones. No, nothing else, but do not be exposed once again, after the report you have presented in your absence from the vote on the allowance for pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u310	So do we. Mr. Georgios Psychogius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to be brief, respecting both colleagues and the late hour, having heard a lot of what I wanted to say from previous speakers and from the ministers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the multiplier we are debating today contains a number of important provisions, both in the area of justice - and in budgetary matters - as well as in the area of tax evasion. Part of the benefit granted to low-pensions was also derived from revenue from the fight against tax evasion. On the occasion of the debate on the draft law, I should like to make a brief reference to some of the essential regulations. These are positive provisions, which are geared towards strengthening the policy which the Ministry of Justice has developed over the last two years. They promote transparency, speed up and optimise the administration of justice, while at the same time guaranteeing easier access for citizens to judicial proceedings. In the first part of the draft law on the Banking Code, the amendments are in the positive direction and are mainly summarized in the following points: firstly, the possibility of restoring and restoring viable enterprises, a stable and stable demand, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, simplifying the bankruptcy procedure, such as, for example, replacing the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court with the powers of the Judge-Rapporteur. Thirdly, the possibility of giving a second chance to debtors, natural persons, who have not been bankrupt and are judged to be the ‘unknown’. Ladies and gentlemen, the above provisions on the second opportunity are clear that they conflict with neoliberal logic and policies, which actually introduce the law of the jungle into the market and condemn to economic death anyone who has been bankrupt without his fault. The second part of the bill lays down measures to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings. For example, I will refer to some of them. In particular, to extend the benefit of poverty, which is now becoming much easier to use and to grant, and it covers more cases of citizens who nowadays have no opportunity of access to justice. A special reference should also be made to Article 17, as it introduces a very important provision and we are well aware of it. It is the commitment of the administrative courts to the irrevocable judgments of the criminal courts. A provision whereby, apart from the solution we give to this problem, we are also in line with the case law of the Court of Human Rights, which in the case of 'Stavropoulou against Greece', decided that our country was violating Article 6 of the ECHR. The third part of the bill provides for a number of provisions to reduce and rationalise fees and offenders. The Minister responsible has referred in detail just now, so I think we need to focus on the abolition of the judiciary in recognizing actions, the reduction of 50% of charges in the voter actions for labour disputes, which will give workers the right to resort to their claims at less costs, as well as to the crimes which have a racist motive and for which there is no longer a need to file an infringement. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that our legal world and our own colleagues are in serious trouble. We know, however, that with small steps, such as the ones adopted by the bill and many others, such as the amendment brought by the Ministry of Migration Policy and that it was about examining the excellent reasons and residence permits from the decentralised administrations, as well as the NSRs, which have been directed to self-employed colleagues in cooperative schemes, as well as the reductions that have to do with the fees and paradoxes and the involvement of lawyers in the decisions and antiquities of the collective bodies, they support and strengthen the position of the lawyer. We can say that in this way we are reducing the difficulties of the legal profession. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that these legislative interventions are neither self-evident nor neutral, because the previous governments have never brought them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately. Reductions of infraction, extension of the benefit of poverty, the fight against tax evasion using plastic money have a clear ideological and political sign and are provisions which also leave the footprint of the left-wing government in subsequent bills. We know very well, as I have again stressed from this Step, that we want a long way to go for the redistribution of wealth and to ensure equal opportunities. But we are focusing on the small and daily social strata, because that is where we belong, we come from and account for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall deal in particular with the subject of VAT on the islands. Firstly, it is unacceptable that the government's association with the maintenance of reduced VAT on the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean. I hope Lesvos and Mytilini are included in this. It is therefore related to the maintenance of the reduced VAT on refugees, thus implying, indirectly, but clearly, that in 1990, on the government of Zolota, Parliament, the head of the JRC calling for a 50% reduction, a 30% reduction in VAT on all Aegean islands, since there was no refugee at that time. Reduced VAT is a minimum counterweight to some of the problems and factors that make life on the islands more accurate, more difficult and dangerous, such as: air and sea transport costs of persons and goods, degraded - particularly sea transport, degraded health care provision, due to the general subsistence and subsistence of health, as well as the additional isolation in which the islands can be found due to weather conditions. Secondly, a 30% reduction in VAT is maintained for one year. It is therefore temporary, i.e. it is a suspension. Thirdly, it is not all about the islands. It is only about the islands of the northern Aegean and eastern Aegean and from the Cyclades that exclude Rhodes and Karpathos. What's your point of view? We found out a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u314	Not the Cyclades. Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u315	I'm sorry, Dodecanese, good. It is allowed once, but three times it is not allowed. The Minister told us a moment ago, because this would jeopardise the whole negotiation. With who? With our partners. This is for those who are delusional that the European Union can protect islands. It does not, of course, mention the so-called 'cosmopolitan' islands. Why? There the workers, the unemployed and the rest of the popular layers live as a cosmopolitan, obviously richly prosperous. There is therefore no need for reduced VAT. Fourthly, you are giving the Christmas poverty allowance to the pensioners and you are maintaining for one year the reduced VAT on certain Aegean islands because - as you say - you have been overrepresented. By whom, then, did you have this over-reimbursement? Do the shipowners' tax, which, on the basis of Article 107 of the Constitution, also result from the fifty-six tax exemptions that bring them every year around EUR 10 billion, do not pay tax on the basis of their profits, but does the tone and in particular USD 1 per korun? This means that a shipowner who has a ship of 12 thousand koruna and won 1.642,500 euros paid 12,000 dollars for tax, which accounts for less than 0.7% of his profits. No, of course not. You didn't get the money from there. Over-performance didn't come from there. Excessive revenues were derived from the undoing of seafarers, which for every single euro paid by shipowners pays four, from the other workers and self-employed and small HEIs, but mainly from the most unfair and anti-grassy value-added tax, VAT. These are, of course, those interests that you and the other urban parties are serving to criticise you for the mixture of policy you are implementing, since you have all voted together on the third memorandum which provides for the suspension of VAT reductions, and you are all together in favour of the defence of the European Union and the capitalist system. Fifthly, for the JRC the reduced VAT was not and had nothing to do with the refugee issue, and it is unacceptable that the Prime Minister's connection be made. We demand that the VAT rate should not be increased for all the Aegean islands and that our islands should not become a place for the arrest of thousands of refugees - migrants, who are victims of imperialist interventions and wars. The JRC calls on the people of the islands and the whole country to go through the counter-attack against the escalating attack on income and their basic rights, in order now to abolish VAT on large-scale people's consumption and HRFIA, for a tax-free limit for the people's family of EUR 20,000, increased by EUR 5,000 for each child, to tax at a rate of 45% the profits of big capital and to abolish their privileges, for substantial measures to protect the unemployed and poor families, for modern labour and insurance rights, to put an end to the lasting slaughterhouse that together set up a government, a European Union and other urban parties, in order to ensure the high profitability and competitiveness of large capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u316	You're done, Mr. Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u317	Finally, we will be voting in favour of the amendment because, although with suffocating time and spatial restrictions, it gives a minimum breath to some islanders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u318	Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, I will first refer to the famous amendment, the second of this package of government, VAT on the islands. You have abolished, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, the reduced VAT, you have signed and voted, and there has always been reduced VAT. So you made this change. Let me not remind you better of the words of your co-pilot, the President of the Independent Greeks. You have then proceeded, signed and applied the increased VAT. You're here to present it as a huge success. In fact, as I have heard a moment ago, you do so, if possible, to see the islanders and the low pensioners and to deal with them and use a arguments about the refugee and a link to the refugee, which should not exist. The reduced VAT had been guaranteed by a specific argument in the European Union. At the same time, you also exclude some islands such as Rhodes and Karpathos, because, as you said a moment ago, this is a question of lenders. Previously, wasn't it? As you have analysed, this is a matter for our country to determine the extra amount of the primary surplus how it will give it. This is a mockery, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ladies of the government. This way of dealing with society is called ridicule. You put the issue of aid in roll-call votes yesterday, as you said abroad, of a third pension, as you said at home, to the low pensioners. We said you'd get them ten and give them one back. We have proved to you, of course, that we are a responsible opposition. We have another programme of economics for how, with a plan and with priorities, we need to allocate these to the pensioners, the unemployed, the private economy. But we also said about the one you were going to give, we would not say 'no'. You tabled a roll-call vote. Today you have not tabled a statement on VAT. We had New Democracy in this artificial diploma, SYRIZA - New Democracy, which he said would vote for the amendment on low pensioners in committee and in plenary, and then, when he entered nominally, voted'residents'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u320	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u321	Because as he explained, he didn't have the deal with the partners. We said, didn't he have the deal with the partners? Is that a matter of why he came in with a denomination? Explain it to us. You didn't explain it to us. Today, then, we are presenting a nominal statement that SYRIZA did not submit and we do not understand why. We want to see the Members of the New Democracy too, if they change their attitude, because we do not know whether they have taken the final agreement on this matter as well. She hasn't got the final deal. As in the low pensioners, in this matter too. So with what reason, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you currently have the other position? It is a mismatch of works, acts, words, which characterise SYRIZA, along this path, and the New Democracy. We do not follow you in that logic. The vote will take place on both amendments, and on today's agenda, and we will maintain the same position. We tell you, of course, that in this way that the government goes, the country will not come out of the crisis. The country will not come out of the tax crisis, with a system that currently does not give the solution. The evaluation isn't closing. The evaluation does not close, however, either successfully in the negotiation, even in the elements of the primary surplus targets - for example, you signed 3.5%, which means unbearable measures - and, of course, for the medium term after 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u322	When did we sign this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u323	For the first time in the Eurogroup communication you signed it. A few days ago. For the medium term after 2018. That's called a lasting memorial and move on. In the short time that I have, because I do not want to get over my time today, since we are already at an advanced time, I will tell you that we have tabled specific amendments - you have tabled fifteen ministerial amendments so far, we have lost the account - which we consider to be the ones that are currently needed in the Greek society, in the private economy, such as the establishment of an incomprehensible business bank account. Go and negotiate about what the private economy needs. We have explained that to you precisely and of course the amendment is a detailed, realistic one. We have tabled an amendment to the necessary exceptions to your bill in relation to people with disabilities. Even there you do not show the social sensitivity you should show on matters relating to the use of plastic money. Of course, as far as VAT is concerned, as I have said before, we have tabled an integrated amendment to abolish the reduction and not actually to suspend for one year. Of course, in connection with the negotiation, you don't have it anyway. We cannot understand why you are not negotiating this right. We have also heard you, Minister, in your protology to talk about provision 56A and you said that 'ethical certificates', if I'm not mistaken, 'no one will give us'. We agreed, too. We have said, therefore, that we will support this regulation. Today you withdrew and said from the Step here that some parties failed to reach the agreement. We know, officially speaking, only the Golden Dawn to blame you on this matter in particular. Because the "some parties" failed what they were theoretically saying is theoretical and captures all opposition parties, please name them afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u324	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u325	Name exactly what has happened and what is happening, because I tell you that officially we know only Golden Dawn and I imagine it does not honor your Government to have taken the amendment back on what the Golden Dawn says. So I think it will then help you to tell me exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u326	I'll tell you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The New Democracy has informed me that it will not vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u327	Well, the New Democracy would not vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u328	We didn't hear what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u329	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u330	Please, I would like the answer to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u331	We didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u332	I was informed by the rapporteur of the New Democracy that they would not vote for the provision, not the amendment. It was not an amendment, it was a provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u333	The layout, 56A.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u334	I was also informed by the Government representative and by the rapporteur that they would not vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u335	Go ahead, Mr. Theocharopoulos, because you have promised you won't get over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u336	Of course, I'm committed. We, too, respect them in the Democratic Partnership. We do not have a promise that we do not respect our commitments. I shall therefore conclude very quickly. In conclusion, I would like to say to you that when we criticised the logic of urgency and urgency or of the fifteen ministerial amendments, but also in general the way in which the government legislates that others have done the same, which is not the case and which we have proved to you on many issues, it is a logic which does not lead the country anywhere. Keep going and be sure that the citizens of the country understand, judge, and in the end they will evaluate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating plastic money today, which in our view is a positive step, in the direction that taxpayers and entrepreneurs will work on the same terms. However, I remember a few years ago about smuggling and revenue. He's here, and the Minister in charge. The former Undersecretary, who changed after the reshape, kept talking to us about the lists - Lagard, Borgians. Of course, you're giving some evidence to some friends of yours, then you forget them. I remember that Venizelos BMW you said you were going to sell it and get 700,000 euros and a lot more, which would bring money. We expect this ambitious plan from Mr Katrugalos then for cars and much more to see when you are going to implement them. But, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that through the procedures, first of all the PSE and the latter's process, the seriousness of our proposal has emerged. As you well know, you may be told in your ears when you go abroad, to others, as you accuse, on the phone, we are neither called inside nor out. Our view is very clear, clear. I mean that today, to be progressive, if you allow me, you must not only be anti-SYRIZA, that is not enough and what SYRIZA means and what SYRIZA and his course so far, but you must also be anti-Symble, with what it means in this Europe that we want to change. And we, Mr. Lappa, have changed. We weren't used to be with "Olandreou" and now with Olad. We have a firm view. It's a little difficult for you. It's hard to have a firm opinion and be a SYRIZA. That's a problem. It's like it's a problem to say I'm telling the truth and to be a SYRIZA. These are incompatible concepts. I understand. Besides, your rapporteur is so confused, he doesn't believe the Prime Minister either. The Prime Minister outside said one-off, the rapporteur tells you about a thirteenth pension. You have to decide. But we, ladies and gentlemen, when we fight in the country, are fighting for society and Greece, for our country. That's why we don't have any dilemmas. Because for us, the program cannot be derailed for 618 million. Because for us from this process, Mr Tsipras, who is undermining the country, and Mr Symble, who is undermining Europe, must also leave the far right and the neo-nazis. That is why we have a firm view of how we need to move forward. So today we are here consistently to vote for this amendment you have brought. The day before yesterday, we made a concrete proposal, and that's what matters to us. Our proposal was that this should be given to the unemployed, to the single parent families and on income criteria. You didn't hear her. We voted for it, too. Today we have an amendment which we tell you that we should not exempt the islands, and that is a priority. You're not accepting it. We will also vote for it, because we believe in this process. These islands need it, because the burden is too high. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, thinking of this. If your inability to the first denomination was to expose the New Democracy or the other parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u339	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u340	Your inability, and I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u341	Do not interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u342	Why didn't you put the same amendment to VAT and the low pensioners? If you wanted to expose the New Democracy and the rest of the parties, why did you give a second chance? All I can think of is that you're incapable. I'm ending up with this. Minister of Justice, Mr Stergiotis, whom you have appointed - not personally, has appointed him by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - to play the VLTs of the OPAP, says that the new regulation was drafted by the PPP and was simply approved by the committee. The D.A. has to call him. He must be called by the prosecutor, because the man you appointed says that the young man you appointed made a gift to the PPP...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u343	And I invite you to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u344	I'll finish, Mr. Bored, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u345	That's a nice trick. Everybody's doing it. They say 'finish' and go on. It's a very good trick, but it's been used a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u346	Let him, Mr. President, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u347	They want to know about the complaint. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u348	Why didn't you say so in time, to find out even better, to inspire it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, be patient. I know you're in a hurry. It's a difficult process to be a government, I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u350	What do you think? What are you talking about? There's a procedure here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u351	Will you let me finish? So, Minister of Justice, today you have two problems. Firstly, one denounces the second one you have appointed, is a friend of Mr Tsakalotou, who was a member of the previous committee. And he had voted for what Mr Stergiotis had voted for and then changed his mind. Is there a matter? Should the district attorney call him? We say it is a very big scandal and it concerns both SYRIZA executives, which you have appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u352	We get it. Repetition is a mother of learning. And that's what we inspired. Mr. Lappas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Before I say a few words in response to the friends of anti-population, I would like to say that I remember the Prime Minister's statement here in Parliament's plenary that the crisis that characterizes, not only our country, but, more generally, the European South and the Mediterranean, is triple. It is an economic crisis, it is a crisis of immigration - refugees and, I stress, a security crisis. I have the last thing to say, Mr President, and I say that it was never such a concern about the security crisis, that at some point the nightmare was going to happen both in our country and in many other peoples. I say this on the occasion of the assassination of the Russian Ambassador to Turkey today. It's a worrying development. At the same time, we read on the Internet that many simultaneous terrorist activities have taken place in various European capitals. So let us keep this, and let us be nutty, restrained and disqualified. Secondly, I am recognizing you, ladies and gentlemen, three statements: First statement: "Let's not play shadow games with the future of Greece. The programme must prepare Greece for a sustainable return to markets and a stable future in the Eurozone.’; Second declaration: ‘The decision of the Eurozone is a reproach. The Greek people have already contributed a great deal. Greece does not need sanctions, but investments.’ And the third and last: "The Prime Minister of Greece is immoral and dangerous. He plays the country in the dice, rules and decides without asking the lenders. The allowance for low pensioners shall jeopardise the negotiation and the second assessment.’; Anybody can tell this enigma I'm going to put you to, who owns the third and final statement? The first two, honoring the country, belong to foreign leaders and the third, which is launched against the country and the Prime Minister outside the territory of the country - belongs to your Chief, gentlemen of the New Democracy. I would like to remind you here that once a Greek ambassador - and I will tell you his name - wanted to ask him about the bad texts in the country. And he said that great phrase, that never any minister of the Greek state has the right to judge his country outside the territory of his country. Do you know who he was? It was in 1963, the ambassador of Greece, George Seferis. Think of a few things. Now we're going to the issues we're talking about. Gentlemen of the Democratic Partnership, we hear your criticism in good faith and we speak with absolute honesty. In your conclusion, however, you say that we do not follow your logic, I will immediately tell you a counter-project. I would prefer you to follow your fellow socialists in Europe, who are honoring both our country and our government and the Prime Minister. Your honor, first of all. Don't follow us, you don't have to. I note three things, Mr President, because I see that time is relentless. For the Banking Code, I would like to say that it is a necessary intervention, if you combine it with the Minister's statement before, that legal aid is due. Judiciary makes us all proud, Mr. President. Do you know why? What good is happening in the area of justice - that is what we lawyers and lawyers are well aware of - means that good progress is being made for the country, for society, for citizens. This is a very good thing and you must observe it, Minister, and the issue of legal aid and the police, for which legal conferences since the 1990s have been pressing for all their decisions and texts. It is now time for us to implement it, because we are serving the citizen and justice, of course. I would just say a few words on the subject of Article 52 first. Before I tell you this, I will say a little about speeding up the process, looking towards the side of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr JRC's colleague, in every country, even at the announcement level, the announcement to speed up the trial, know that it serves the impossible, the poor, the weak. Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u354	That's why the troika is asking for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u355	It's not a troika thing, my dear. You have to understand. Ask a lawyer with your partner - who is ministering to justice at the audiences, whether they are criminal or administrative or civil - to see who it is that is actually the one who is defeated not only economically, but also at institutional level. The poor cannot follow a long process. The prosperous also has the economic potential and can last by eliminating his opponent. We know that. It's a post for us. Think it over. I shall conclude with Rule 52, Mr President. I oppose all the arrangements. There has been too much said. For Rule 52, Mr President, you have seen that everyone here, the entire legal body, and today all Greece and the forty-five thousand lawyers are talking about this choice of government and the ministry to establish the possibility for lawyers to participate in the last level of election of antiquities, which is the elections of the last club. They do not have the criterion of impartiality to do so, at the time when local and regional representatives, MEPs and Members of the national Parliament, in other words, those who express, certify and demonstrate popular sovereignty. If that's possible! Lawyers also have prestige and credibility and social sensitivity and social experience. They're the best. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, to serve the body we have been serving for years, I say this phrase. Thierry Robert said about lawyers: "The order of lawyers is a class as old as the court, as noble as the virtue, as necessary and justice." Actually, he said nothing but confirms what Voltaire said that a hundred lives if I had, a hundred times I would be a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u356	I would ask you not to use the expression 'I will finish', but to finish when we have to finish. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, you're right. The Democratic Reconciliation and the European socialists are putting the country's rescue on top of any party interest. That's what they've been doing for so many years. Sometimes I think you're confusing yourself. The rescue of the country, the rescue of SYRIZA. The draft law we are debating today has three extremely important instruments: bankruptcy code, acceleration of administrative procedure and modification of paradoxes. At your custom you made all of it one squirrel, brought three to one, and at the end, bet, as always, a body of unrelated amendments, most late. And this story continues during today's process. Since time is indeed pressing, and the previous colleagues have pointed out all your curiosity, let me stick to the amendments by the Ministry of Sports. You tabled four amendments, and you withdrew today, after all the loot that has been created, one of them. The haste with which you brought it, not that it amazes us, but testifies to your great anxiety and study, to prevent developments and obviously to adapt them to your own measures. I would like to refer here to the amendment that has been withdrawn and that relates to the plenary session of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. Because he's retired, don't think it's of no political significance. You submitted it on Friday and Saturday with a press release you have already announced that you are withdrawing it. The official version shall indicate ‘due to error in the wording’. You said something else: 'Impossibly from a typographic error'. It can't happen both. They're mutually exclusive. But that's a little bit of a letter for you. Can we just see what this legislative initiative was serving on the substance of this? By putting the outgoing president before the oldest permanent member of the EEO, you have tried very hard - the truth is that you have an excess on this - to intervene in the upcoming antiquities to promote a new administration in the Hellenic Olympic Committee. So, since Friday when you tabled the amendment, there has been a very strict warning of the Democratic Incorporation. Withdrawal is a sign of how secretive anti-constitutional was, as it led to the assembly in a particular direction. By putting the outgoing president in office in office, you have intervened with the ILO Statute. You know that any amendment would like assent from the plenary and approval from the ILO, in accordance with the provisions in the ILO Statute. Note a small, trivial detail for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. With this amendment you were giving the outgoing President, who obviously has an electoral interest in forming, because he wants to be a candidate again for the seat of the President of the ILO. Once again in ten, you packed it up to save what you can from the international prick. Let's go to Amendment No 827/66. A fan card. "Forty-five masters and sixty students"... the yacht of the Prime Minister's special homeland. We're going from an extension. I don't know if that's the last thing we're gonna vote on. I would remind you, however, that there will be no extension. We've lost count. We shall now proceed to Amendment No 829/68, which supplements Article 24 on the election of representatives of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. The amendment is photographic. It interferes with the internal legal order of sports clubs, such as the NGO and others, resulting in the legal alteration of the chosen body. Today, with this amendment you are bringing, you are creating huge problems. I would like to explain that representatives from each sports federation for the Hellenic Olympic Committee are being promoted in accordance with the sporting law within the last four months of the year of the summer Olympic Games, i.e. from 1 September to 31 December. To date, all sports federations have completed the planned procedures and their representatives have been appointed to the ILO - all except one. The NGO. The reason, for those involved in sports, is well known: the UEFA lacks legal authority, has temporary administration, which has been designated by UEFA in cooperation with the Ministry of Sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u358	Please, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u359	Time cannot be over, Mr President, because nothing has been said about these amendments. We're talking about everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u360	I didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u361	Give me some time, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u362	Time's up for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u363	Don't delay me. I'll close it in two minutes. In this situation it arrived because of the Arbitration Court of the NCA, which considered that the current statute of the NCA is contrary to sport law, as it applies. So, in practical terms, what does that mean? That if we go on the basis of the statutes of the NRA, there is a small electorate, a hundred eighty-selectors. If we go under the law, we wait about four hundred and fifty and five hundred electors. A moment ago, this afternoon, we were informed that elections were held in the SGP and that a regular and alternate representative was elected. If the law you have passed, Mr SYRIZA - ANEL, then today's elections are not legal. So today's amendment is trying to reintroduce what you have created. Does that remind you, ladies and gentlemen? Does it remind you of the natural momentum that this government has?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u364	Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u365	The previous Minister of Sports celebrated the abolition of the U.S. self-government, the current Minister of Sports celebrates the work of the predecessor and restores the self-government. Is there a difference between the two Ministers? No, absolutely none.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u366	You're welcome. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u367	Just a pair of ours. This is SYRIZA's constant tactic. Invoke the moral advantage of a card, and at the same time you are traded with the most corrupt ones. What can anyone say about the fourth amendment? He was given at the last minute. To finish and not to trouble and break your head every time you baptize the fish meat, we tell you: Decide what you want to say, explain to us and then find the way you always find it, with photographic provisions to vote, legislate, if you need to dig it out. But stop creating this alalum without ending your amendments. It doesn't help anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u368	Please, ladies and gentlemen, we will take the sitting by twelve and a half after midnight. In order to speak as many Members as possible until then, do you agree to shorten the time in four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no. Okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u371	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, I am speaking for formal reasons, to announce what Mr Tsakalotos has already said, that the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 845 Members, Mr Tsakalotos. Madame, Karayannis, Stefus and Jufis is accepted. I'd like to make a report. We may say in this Chamber "Neither Tsipras nor Siomple", but in the elections it will be called Mitsotakis. And then we will see 'Tsipras or Mitsotakis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u374	What would you like, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, I asked, as rapporteur, because at the time I was in Stepma, the amendments were not tabled - I do not know if other colleagues wish, but I want to talk at least two, three minutes about the most critical of them. You realise that at the time of the rapporteurs, the amendments had not been tabled. So we have not been placed on them and you will invite us to vote without having said a word. I would therefore ask you to count on this right request in the form of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u376	Then let those who want to speak be ahead of them. Is that your suggestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u377	No, I don't know about the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u378	We said that time was until twelve and a half after midnight, so that the vote would follow. I don't understand exactly what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, the procedure is your responsibility. I want the amendments that we have not been placed on the table to give us two, three minutes. When will you judge it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u380	Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u381	Tonight we will not vote, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u382	Here you go. I give you two minutes to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u383	I would be very happy to speak about the amendments. I'll take off the list because he's big. 16.05, 16.55, 18.25, 18.30, 18.32 ́. After the sixteenth mediterranum it rained amendments! I am absolutely certain that none of those who vote for them, but also those who do not vote for them, have regard to the size, scope and arrangements of the amendment on permits for the marketing of mineral oils. Is it increasing the guarantees? Does it reduce the guarantees? Is it increasing cubic? The storage areas?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u384	Mr Colleague, let me clarify. Amendments Nos 842 and 843 are withdrawn and will be retabled tomorrow in Mr Stathakis' bill on spatial planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u385	Yes, sir. Good. I'll see you tomorrow for the oil. I'm going to the rest now. The amendment by the Minister of Tourism. The Minister in relation to the criticism he had heard until then that he would entrust the advertising package, bypassing the tender procedure, said to us: 'Ma, Google? Twitter? Facebook? There is no tendering procedure.’ Anyone who reads the provision refers to entries relating to papers and electronic media. So the Minister made fun of us and went to intercept the fellow Members' vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u386	It's over, Mr. Kutsuko, the time I gave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u387	Excuse me now. I said that I would say "one word" for each. Mrs. Kefalidou reported on sports. I am not going to talk about this. I am now referring to the regulation on pharmaceutical legislation. Please a Congressman very much tell me what he's saying. You have to withdraw it. No one can understand what he's saying. Why have you accepted this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u388	Who is she? For tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u389	For the drugs. What do we do about medicine?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u390	I didn't hear it. Mr. Blonde was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u391	I want a Member to stand up now and tell me what the amendment says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u392	Mr Chrysochoidis should come and answer us for knowing them without reading them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u393	Good. It's a rhetoric. Mr. Kutsuko, you're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u394	I shall therefore vote on it, but the right thing is to withdraw them. That's a challenge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that Democratic Reconciliation is complaining about the amendment - New Year's Day - we must not forget that, before the New Year, we must have had time to deal with some issues. Nevertheless, I am pleased to note that the Democratic Partnership slowly - slowly, cowardly - makes some steps and distances itself from New Democracy and from Mr Mitsotakis and takes a little less neutral positions. I welcome this for the sake of the country. Well, the bill we're debating and voting on today, obviously, is a very important bill on undeclared incomes. I'm mostly talking about those of the Ministry of Finance. And the others are important, but the Ministry of Finance knows them more about e-commerce. It is a bill long-awaited, which has been drafted by Genaris - February 2016. It is an essential tool to increase the revenues of the state budget and also to break tax evasion. His delay, obviously, is delayed by the institutions, who have constantly raised new demands. So we have reached a bill which is clearly positive, but which is unrealistic, for me personally, in relation to a number of issues. For example, why should electronic transactions be mandatory only for EUR 500 or more and are not from EUR 50 or more? For evil coincidence, therefore, it is the lenders and the technical steps that prevented this bill from being filed earlier and lost its momentum and initial design. By devilish coincidence again, it is the lenders themselves who have effectively sang the measure of a hundred instalments of debt repayment to the public and insurance funds. Also, it was an evil coincidence that some of their domestic representatives, with their exhortation, took the matter, that we were doing unilateral actions on aid to the low pensioners under 850 euros and the issue of suspending the increase in reduced VAT rates on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. Of course, they were the same ones that last year, at this time, delayed the parallel health program for two months, just these days. I remember the cries of anti-population officials, especially the New Democracy and PASOK, who said: 'But do you have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State? But have you asked the institutions to move on?" Unfortunately, it seems that not only do the institutions help to stabilise and increase budgetary revenue, but they prevent all positive measures of increased collection of tax and debt and, at the same time, prevent or try to prevent any positive steps of social policy and relief of vulnerable and vulnerable strata. In relation to creditors, we understand that, but in relation to our opposition, ladies and gentlemen, you have revealed yourself fully. With the'residence' and the abstention you have chosen from some of you - the New Democracy and some other parties - you have been unrealisticly exposed in front of the Greek people and in front of the weakest strata. With regard to your change of attitude to suspending the increase in VAT - the New Democracy, I mean, which is in favour - on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean, you have obviously received the outcry and changed your attitude. Of course, the case of the increase in VAT in the Aegean should not remain in the current suspension, but the overall reintroduction of the reduced coefficients across the Aegean and in the Cyclades and Sporades and the other small islands, such as Gadus, Kythera, Antikythera and others, should be claimed. Indeed, what revenues can be earned by 24%, for example, Madam Secretary-General and colleagues, from Anafisia, Thirasia, Sikino, Serifos, Kythnos, Donusa and the other small Cyclades, who should not only increase VAT, but should give them an allowance to stay in the winter months there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u397	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u398	We agree. That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u399	Your time's up. We also put the Donusa in that you didn't say and your time was over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u400	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. We hope, therefore, that the very good work done by the island MPs, along with the interministerial group of government under the Deputy Prime Minister Yiannis Drasakis will have immediate visible results...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u401	Your time's up, Mr. Armacler.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u402	...both after the announcements of the Prime Minister in Nisseros, and with the wording at the beginning of the year of beneficial provisions, which are ready for the permanent residents of the islands that are on hold.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u403	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, the elections to await them for 2019. Don't hope sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u405	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u406	Yeah, we saw it today. We got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u408	The following are colleagues and we close with the list: For four minutes Mrs Antonio, Mr Jamakalis, Mr Christos Antonios, Mr Sahinides and Mr Kegeroglou will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u409	Why me for four minutes, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u410	We've set a time limit. Please, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now delaying and it is time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u412	We, the Golden Dawn, have only three speakers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u413	At two o'clock after midnight, didn't we, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u414	You're not the only ones. We've set a time limit. We said about 12 o'clock and changed it for 12 o'clock. After 12 and a half we'll be done! Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to SYRIZA colleagues, I remembered at the time of the'superior negotiation' of Varoufakis - Tsipras. Let me tell you how much it cost us? It cost us 86 billion and a third memorandum. You have again begun to say about Siomple, about "extreme negotiation" and it seems that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are probably preparing us the fourth memorandum or trying to escape, because your inability is beginning to cause you problems. We are discussing today a draft of the Ministry of Justice and Transparency, which, like most of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's bills, includes five fragmentary parts with different regulations between them and many amendments, as has been heard by all the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups. The first includes changes to the bankruptcy procedure, characterised by decay, fragmentation, while the following two parties concern measures to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings and are Memorandum commitments already to be voted on. The same applies to the fifth part of the bill, which, however, focuses on the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, with the main ones of the voluntary disclosure of undeclared income and plastic money. These provisions, of course, had been announced by Mr Alexiades a year ago. However, they come to nothing but one with carelessness and with no real solution to the real problems faced by thousands of citizens. Initially, the provisions on a voluntary statement of income appear to serve more than those already under control. But, ladies and gentlemen, these provisions cannot give rise to the expected benefits, mainly because of the very high tax rates, which are deteriorating, as an incentive. The counter-incentive is also the loss of all favourable provisions, if one does not pay the instalments and lose the adjustment in accordance with Article 61. At the same time, it makes no sense to regulate Article 57, according to which a person who is to join a regulation, as has been said by many, pays an additional 8% tax, while from the beginning of April the tax goes to 10%. With regard to the provisions on plastic money, extending the use of plastic money could, under conditions, make a decisive contribution to combating tax evasion and increasing public revenue, operating for the benefit of businesses. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, you will give me the extra time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u416	Please, Mrs. Antoniou, you're facilitating the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u417	We have to say some things, how is it going to happen? This does not seem to be the case, however, because there are no incentives, neither for citizens nor for businesses. Let me not talk about the misappropriation of the business account, which is not foreseen, and was announced by the Prime Minister. Besides, it's not the only one. We also expect that amendment announced by the Prime Minister and many other things. However, what I would like to insist on, because time has indeed shortened and I must refer to this, is that the inspirations of the specific provisions on plastic money do not seem to have taken into account the specificities of each business sector, as well as the need to diversify and introduce exceptions as appropriate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A characteristic example is the Greek fur industry, one of the main export sectors in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u418	With the fur industry finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u419	I would therefore like to say, Minister, that since the rumour is mainly made in sales by Russian buyers, which, because of the financial trader in the West, cannot be used, the Minister should think of such exemptions for this important export sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u420	Good, Mrs. Antonio, thank you. Mr. Jamaklis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, I know that you are not interested in fur production, but you should know that fur production contributes particularly and has always contributed to the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u422	Let me tell you, whoever tries to impose the procedure is not an enemy of the fur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u423	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion introduces legal and economic regulations. Without ignoring the importance of the financial regulations and in particular those relating to the voluntary disclosure of taxable material over the years and the promotion of electronic transactions, my position focuses on legal arrangements. The law proposed by Article 33 of the draft law abolishing the judiciary in recognizing actions, introduced by regulations in 2011 and 2012, constitutes a commitment of the Government and is necessary since it removes the question of its constitutionality. As the explanatory statement rightly acknowledges, the thorough study of the issue by the Committee on the Judiciary of German Debts to Greece has been greatly exploited. This study was linked to the need to make it easier for courts to have access to the courts of beneficiaries of living compensation for victims or relatives of victims of Nazi atrocities during the Occupation. The Pan-Hellenic Association of Lawyers, as well as other associations of persons, such as the ECHR, the Network of Tester Cities and Countryes and others, has contributed to the consideration of the Committee on the Criminology of German Debts. All these beneficiaries are now opening the way for conducting pipelines. The relevant provision for a reduction of half the legal amount in the case of labour disputes, for which this obligation is provided, is also made. The proposed arrangements for the administrative proceedings are necessary and some of them constitute innovations, such as the introduction of the adjudicating aid for the reopening of the procedure following a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the introduction of the rapporteur's institution into administrative differences of substance and the binding commitment of the court in question by the exonerating decision of a criminal court, in application of the ‘ne bis in idem’ principle. As far as the latter is concerned, it is well known that Greece has often been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights of violations of this principle, which does not seek honour in the light of respect for our legal culture. The proposed arrangements for speeding up and rationalising administrative proceedings, such as optimising appeals and appeals, changes in the suspension procedure, easier and faster granting of legal aid, I believe they will achieve their objectives. One of the consequences in the years of the memorandum is the restriction or inability of citizens to appeal to the courts because of occasionally increasing fees and offenders. The draft law attempts to reduce to a scale the restrictions or inability to access justice, in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. Finally, with regard to the proposed regulation for the appointment of lawyers instead of judiciary officers in elections to show administrations to private legal persons, the submission of arguments by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors reasonably provoked the reactions not only of the lawyers but also of all the lawyers in the country, since it is insulting and unacceptable to argue that the definition of judicial officers ensures the improperness of the antiquities, because it contains the indirect, but also a clear judgement that the definition of lawyers for the same work does not ensure that it is inappropriate. It is my duty, and from the Step forward, to remind us that lawyers under existing legislation are equal players in the proper administration of justice. Under this designation, they provide the same guarantee of diabetic as the other factors in the administration of justice, nothing less and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Christos Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objectives of the bill we are debating today are: Firstly, the revision of the bankruptcy code in order to halt or at least reduce the dramatic consequences of the debt crisis which had a direct and very painful impact on our country's citizens, on employment and on businesses. Secondly, the implementation of the voluntary disclosure scheme of taxable material not declared in previous years, which will contribute to the increase of public revenue, without rewarding or encouraging the infringing behaviour of taxpayers and without providing tax amnesty. Thirdly, the creation of a structured package of obligations and rights between citizens and businesses regarding electronic transactions so that the country and citizens benefit from European technological and regulatory developments in the field of electronic payments and recover the lost territory of previous years. The bill we are debating today reshapes the Banking Code and regulates not only the right exit from the business market that has been affected by the economic crisis in recent years, but also offers an opportunity for their economic restructuring. The bill also regulates issues relating to voluntary disclosure of undeclared income and electronic transactions. The economic crisis and the wrong strategies to address them by the previous governments have led to a dramatic increase in the number of firms in difficulty. The search for strong institutional impurities is the current government's proposal to ensure a fair balance of interests, the protection of the weak and the restoration of social peace at last. More specifically, the review of the Banking Code and the proposed arrangements from Article 1 to Article 56 move on three main axes: firstly, the provision of a genuine possibility of re-engagement - fresh start - the honest entrepreneur who has suffered all their good efforts, the strengthening of the effectiveness and the shortening of the bankruptcy procedure, so that for non-viable companies bankruptcy can be completed in a reasonable time, while for viable companies to be put into effect immediately. Articles 57 to 61 of the draft law concern the voluntary disclosure of taxable material, which will contribute to the increase of revenues and enable taxpayers to include their actual income in a statement of Incorporation, in which the total information for each taxpayer will be collected. This is how it attempts to deal with identified paramilitary phenomena, which the previous governments have failed to achieve, and ensures the contribution of all taxpayers to public burdens according to their tax capacity. Finally, the bill contains measures to promote e-commerce and combat the secretion of revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, the government today brings the second part of the Prime Minister's announcements to the House, apart from the extraordinary one-off aid to the low pensioners in our country, and the regulation of the suspension of VAT on the islands of the north and east Aegean. It is a fair measure for the islands that are the main burden of dealing with the refugee flows towards our country and Europe. It is the least we can do right now and we owe it to the inhabitants of these regions. In this context, we call for you to draw up and vote in favour of this regulation, so that we can strengthen and shield the national effort and the battle that the government puts on behalf of the country in the negotiations with the institutions. The aim of our Government is to successfully close the second evaluation of the programme, based on the positions we have developed to restore normality to work and without new measures after the end of the programme. That is why we hope that you do not continue to identify, gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, with the extremes of the lenders and the employer and to join the national effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u426	Thank you. Mr Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u427	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the amendments, at the same time as they come, create a problem of regularity in the legislative process. It's a pathogen that comes from a long time ago, and unfortunately it's still going on nowadays. The denominator, as far as the quantity of amendments is concerned, will be the same, I suppose. However, the numerator differs, Mr Colleague, because yesterday's amendments, the New Democracy and the PASOK, were for the use of a service of targeted friends. Nights were these amendments which, with photographic clear layout, entered...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u428	Don't say things that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u429	We know very well, Mr President. That was the practice, that's what you were following. Today's amendments come to some extent to cure arrhythmias and the lack of regularity from all the previous legislations. On a second level it is a result of the need to fulfil Memorandum obligations. So we're gonna have to finish with that fairy tale at last. There is a difference and you must accept it. I come to the two amendments in question. It was the first one to create a political vertigo in the area of New Democracy, and that is why? With the amendment on financial aid to the low-pension workers, the New Democracy crew are failing against its leader, who, with the unexploited 'parents', created a political loot in the field of counter-population. We exhort Jerusalem and know very well that this was a self-destructive consequence for the New Democracy area. It's her problem! The problem, however, is that with the'residents' he gave, he testified to the total lack of responsibility, as the lack of social sensitivity was revealed on the one hand, and on the other - and the worst - he gave the credentials to the great boss. Today's amendment on the withdrawal or, more rightly, the reduction of VAT on the islands of the eastern coastline is, I think, a piece of legislation for which no one can see. In conclusion, what I have to say is that day after day we are focused on principles relating to normality in the functioning of the country, and above all with the attempt to get the country out of the deadlock, we are making legislation and making promises, which are made more evident every day by all parties, much more noticeable by society. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, we are building up with one single objective, to help society get out of the deadlocks that you have thrown it out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled, which will take place on Wednesday at 7 p.m. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. Next time we know and put down the papers with what we have to say directly in the Minutes and not to talk at all, because as far as I can see, of the three speakers who are registered, I will only have time to speak. You could manage it better, Mr President. I am bound to refer to topicality and not to articles, because they have been analysed several times. Mr Mitsotakis said during his visit to Brussels, according to Community sources, 'we will not pluralize, I will not only remain a reformist'. This statement, of course, sounded like music in the ears of the Junkers, Dobrovskis and Moscovisi with whom he had contacts. Of course only by accident could this statement be described as Mitsotakis, as yesterday in the newspaper "Kathemerini", in an interview that Mr Dombrovskis gave, said that in order for Greece to enter a development orbit the measures that have been voted on and of course what will follow should be implemented as soon as possible. He was found a willing narcotic who said he was rushing to implement everything. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And he continues his nationally dangerous policy, Mitsotakis, in his recent tour in Thrace, that the Turkish language should be taught in our Thrace, overlooking the Treaty of Lausanne, while he could mention and propose that their language be taught as the second language in the minority villages of the Pomac. Because these people are proud to say that they are Greek. There was also a reference to the present problem of isology and isopoliticalism for Thrace, thereby giving his credentials to Sultan Erdogan, who could not hope for a better representative and supporter of Greece. It is a Erdogan, however, who has to deal with many and great problems within his own country, but also with his own foreign policy. It is, however, able to impose its conditions and put pressure on all fronts in every way, by being a regulator of many situations. Its last achievement - and I put this in the Minutes - at a time when the Turkish pound is constantly falling, is that it has asked the Turkish citizens to turn their foreign exchange into gold or Turkish pounds, in an effort to compensate for the increase in the dollar. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another step forward was to offer Putin and his Chinese counterpart, to trade in local currency, that is to say what he buys from Russia and China to pay for it in their currency, in rubles and yuan, and, respectively, what they buy to pay for it in Turkish pounds. He even said that this offer was considered reasonable from both countries. In fact, he also stressed that he has given the necessary recommendations to the Central Bank of Turkey. There was an immediate response to his urge to change foreign exchange to Turkish pounds from Turkey's main Stock Exchange, Borsa, which is based in Istanbul, turning all of his money assets into Turkish pounds. I shall only refer to Rule 110. By granting another casino to Greece, the Greek Government is progressing rapidly to the mobilization of Greece. Since we have wages and we will have pensions in China, we will have to imitate them in gambling too. If we see China before it started exporting its products to the rest of the world, what was blossoming in China was gambling. After the OPCW, which will install thousands of petty machines, continues the miserable policy of coexistence that wants to make our homeland an endless casino. And our youth, and almost an absolute majority, will have access to gambling through the various agencies of the OPCW, as will the Internet. But when you are practicing your youth, seeing in every neighborhood that has access to it, hoping for an easy gain, no longer thinking about the quality of life that he deserves, so that he can claim it, you can't make it and hope too much. The Golden Dawn has declared that what you legislate will abolish it with an article and a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor. Mr. Kegeroglu, from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u433	You know that. That's why you're telling me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, is Mr. Kegeroglu last?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u435	What's last? Is it possible to call me lately? I'm the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u436	Not the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, time is running too. As far as I can see, this is the scarce thing to do with the vote, which means that the procedure is now over, Mr President. In other words, if the Minister now wants to accept the amendment I will remind him, he cannot accept. In any case, before I refer to the issues of the amendment, I would like to say to my colleague, who was talking about night-on-night amendments, that this day, number 849/81 was tabled - because night-on-night, those who will see them - who, he says, gives, damages abroad from the exercise of business and blah. Why does he vote for her? What's this? Isn't it photographic regulation for specifics, to the detriment of the public interest? Why does he vote for her? Day after day, he was filed. Secondly, does he not remember the MDG that, for two hundred and seventy pounds of money, the Ministry of Finance refused to give us the data of these people, whether they were business or people, covered behind it, he says, from the confidentiality point of view, and I don't know what else? I mean, it could give millions of dollars to the Treasury, not to give the evidence, so there can be no control from anywhere. Where can an audit of this MDG finally be carried out, of the two hundred and seventy-seven grandees with the 880 million, a billion who were given? Can you tell us? Because you come here and you do the honors. Don't you know what you're voting for? Apologise for these, gentlemen, if you do not know and prevent another one, which is Amendment 849 and do not vote on it. Can you not vote for it? Can you? You are not speaking, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We have therefore tabled an amendment to the special unregulated professional account for professionals, farmers, for all businesses, legal or natural persons, so that they can manage once electronic transactions are imposed and you must accept it. I said again that it does not conflict with any negotiation, because it refers to an authorised CSM, the content of which may be the subject of the negotiation. We have also tabled an amendment to VAT on the islands to be brought back on the basis of the constitutional requirement on islands and not on the false documents you call for, which exclude islands according to size. It says, to the east, Kassos is to the west and Karpathos is to the east and is excluded. We didn't understand that geography. I come quickly because the President will cut me off on the other amendment concerning those who have joined the hundred-dollar arrangement. On the basis of a provision that exists, it is at the disposal of the head of the DU to allow the person involved in the arrangement to receive money, but that, as you can see, is not objective. He's in power. So there is a lot to say about this word 'goodwill'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we call on those who have complied with the regulation for at least twenty instalments to be able to collect the money without compromising it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u438	And that's what we're going to do, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u439	I will conclude with two more amendments, which deal in a concise way. One concerns the facilitation of disabled people for electronic transactions. If it's possible that you don't even accept it! If that's possible! I mean, that's gonna be the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u440	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u441	It was not accepted, but we want the Minister to accept it. I shall end with an amendment to the ammunition. When the pot is replaced - it may not be known an expression, it may cover with the other - the substitute, which is essentially a work of art and is a family relic, it may not be destroyed, but it may be possible to maintain it. In Article 108, too, we are voting 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u442	We're done, Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u444	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u445	Please, the whole Dodecanese knows that Mr Gatis and Mr Consolas are in favour of reducing VAT on the islands. Please, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u447	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u448	Some clarifications I would like to give for Mr Kegeroglu. In the legislative improvements that we have submitted, we report that disabled people are excluded from plastic money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u449	Mr. Kegeroglu tells you another thing, you understand. He's telling you about access.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u450	For accessing... I'm not done, just leave me alone. We exclude them, because that is what we currently have to do and enable them to have one or the other. We don't force them to have the tax-free on the basis of plastic money. From there on, in terms of access to small and medium-sized enterprises, it is a matter that does not concern this bill. In a subsequent bill, we will see global issues, as well as bank supplies and all transactions, we will also see the piece of HEIs and, indeed, specific individuals, with blindness and others. Because I took the floor now, to say two more things. In Article 106: A lawyer who considers himself to be ‘photographed’. There is no lawyer photographed by the Ministry. It's the General Secretariat of Public Income. She's the independent authority that wants a lawyer in her service. It's not a matter of the Ministry. We've been clarifying it for so many days. Let's go to the argument, to Amendment No 849. Those who know from companies know that the results of a company are profits or losses. This article states that ‘losses arising from the pursuit of a business by a permanent establishment cannot be used for the calculation of the profits of the same tax year or for future profits, with the exception of losses from business activities through a permanent establishment arising in another country’. This comes to replace what it says “with future profits, with the exception of income generated by other states”. There can be no income. It will result from profit or damage. It's a correction made by the Income Management. I am referring to you, ladies and gentlemen. The services requested a correction because they could not implement this provision. It was a little hard. They had the wrong interpretation. Nothing more is hidden. It's purely legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u451	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, give the floor for a minute to the honourable Member to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u453	Bring her to the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned at the end of the debate: "Governmental Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, voluntary disclosure of taxable material for years, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u462	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u471	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u480	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u489	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u498	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u507	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u516	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u525	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u534	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u543	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u552	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u561	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u570	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u579	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u588	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u597	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u601	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u606	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u615	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u619	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u624	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u633	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u637	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u642	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u651	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u660	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u669	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u678	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u687	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u696	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u705	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u714	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u723	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u732	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u741	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u750	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u759	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u768	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u777	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u786	Article 37 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u795	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u804	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u813	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u822	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u831	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u840	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u849	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u858	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u861	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u867	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u872	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u876	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u879	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u885	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u888	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u894	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u897	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u903	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u912	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u921	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u930	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u939	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u948	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u950	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u957	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u960	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u966	Article 57 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u971	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u974	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u975	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u978	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u980	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u983	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u984	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 60 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u993	Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 61 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u996	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1002	Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1005	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1007	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1010	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1011	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1013	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1014	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1020	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1023	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1029	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1037	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1038	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1046	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1047	Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1050	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1055	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1056	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1059	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1061	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1064	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1065	Article 68 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1070	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1074	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1077	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1082	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1083	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 71 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1085	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1086	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1088	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1091	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1092	Article 71 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 72 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1095	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1096	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1097	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1101	Article 72 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1103	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1110	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1115	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1119	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 75 is deleted and the rest is renumbered. Does the House accept the old Article 76, new Article 75, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1128	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1137	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1146	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1155	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1158	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1164	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1173	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1182	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1185	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1191	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1200	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1209	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1218	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1227	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1236	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1245	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1254	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1263	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1272	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1281	Article 92 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1290	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1299	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1308	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1313	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1317	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1326	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1335	Article 98 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1344	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1353	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1362	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 102, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1371	Article 102 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1380	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1389	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1393	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1398	Article 105 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1407	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1416	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 108 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1425	Article 108 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1434	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1443	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1452	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1461	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1470	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1479	Article 114 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 827 and a special number 66 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1481	Mr President, I would like to put a little on the amendments for one minute because I have not been present during the debate. For all this, the government overrun itself...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1482	Uh, now, you can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1483	You'll give me a minute, because I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1484	But you're going to do a post-night placement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1485	Mr President, I am ending with all together, with one phrase. The government overrun itself with regard to the deterioration of Parliament's role. I am referring to the amendments - I have them here in front of me - and we see that the ministerial amendments are 15 and 15 - the ten tabled today from noon until a few hours ago. We are experiencing the absolute humiliation of the parliamentary process. There was time to come to bills in the previous period and to be discussed with the normal procedure. It's tomorrow's bill - the landscaping bill - but you don't bring it here under the normal procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1486	So...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1487	We will vote on all of them 'no', and there were some positive provisions that we could vote on. The new Republic will vote only on the amendment to suspend the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands on Wednesday at 19 noon, which was put to a roll-call vote, for which it has tabled its positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1488	Good. We shall continue the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1495	So the amendment under general number 827 and a special 66 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 829 and a special number 68 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1504	Therefore, the amendment under general number 829 and a special 68 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 836 and a special 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1513	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 836 and a special 70 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 840 and a special number 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1522	The amendment, by a general number 840 and a special 72, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 841 and a special number 73?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1531	Therefore, the amendment under general number 841 and a special 73 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 844 and a special number 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1540	The amendment, by a general figure of 844 and a special 76, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 846 and a special number 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1549	The amendment, by a general number 846 and a special 78, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 847 and a special number 79 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1558	The amendment, by a general number 847 and a special 79, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 848 and a special 80 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1567	The amendment, by a general figure of 848 and a special 80, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 6 of the draft law. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 849 and a special number 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1576	The amendment, by a general number 849 and a special 81, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 850 and a special 82, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1585	The amendment under a general number 850 and a special 82 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 845 and a special number 77 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1594	The amendment, by a general number 845 and a special 77, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. For the amendment of a general number 837 and a special 71, a roll-call vote has been tabled by Members of the Democratic Alliance, which, as we said, will take place on Wednesday, December 21, 2016 at 19.00. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-19-S1-commons.u1595	The meeting for today, Tuesday, December 20, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Sustainable development'.
