ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017’. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Steriou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2019 50 billion euros are removed from pensioners' pockets. The 2017 budget provides for cuts by pensioners of EUR 1,64 billion. So while the government is voting here for another budget with new taxes and cutbacks for our people and is preparing a new blow to labour rights with the second assessment, it is only as a challenge and a mockery that we can say that it is the government's proclamations, which give crumbs from the bloody surpluses to the most impoverished that your policy itself creates and multiplys. You also want with this energy to convince the people to forget all sorts of rights and to reconcile with the minimums, that is, the crumbs announced by the Prime Minister yesterday. Because this announcement was made by the government and after the great success and participation of workers in the general strike on Thursday. The pensioners, we tell you clearly, will give their answer to this mockery at the big rally that they're preparing on December 15th. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, on what territory another anti-grass budget will be implemented. Let's see some of your data. The eruption of the capitalist crisis has led to the downfall of the wages of all workers. The average monthly earnings of employees from 2009 to 2014 decreased by 26.3%, while in many cases losses exceeded 50%. Over a hundred and twenty-six thousand workers work and live at 100 euros a month, and over five hundred thousand employees have wages less than the lousy penalised EUR 586 gross wages, i.e. EUR 490 net per month. The last five years have caused a real collapse of collective sectoral labour agreements. It is characteristic that in 2008 there were a hundred and sixty sectoral collective labour agreements covering almost all private workers. There are now eighteen contracts covering less than 15% of private sector workers. The remaining 85% of workers are covered either by operational or individual contracts, with a sharp reduction in their earnings. The wage reduction mechanism also plays an important role in individuals' associations. It is revealing your own element that shows that from the end of 2012 to the middle of 2014, mostly with associations of people, a thousand four hundred operational contracts, which, in their vast majority, provide for reductions of up to 40%. Why is it that all these rival overthrows are in place? As you all say, with the exception of the JRC, in order to maintain the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, in order finally to save the capitalist economy, but destroying it - and you know it - the producers of wealth, that is, the workers. We really don't ask you workers in your surroundings, your relatives, where are they in this working jungle? I'm sure you have, it's hard not to have. What do you say to these workers? What you are doing hard - why are we told by the government, too, to negotiate with the quartet, to restore the competitiveness of the Greek economy, as the Government representative said, and to get out in the clearing? You hide, however, that along with all the other parties, who voted for the third memorandum, you have committed yourself to the chapter and the partners that there will be none but a return to the previous status of work. It was also a revelation that Mr Janakopoulos' statement that the expert group is very close to the government's positions. However, this finding, as well as the positions put forward by the Quartet, permanently overturning labour and, at the same time, always on the basis of competitiveness, introduce new, key elements in the expansion of labour flexibility at all levels in the labour market. And you know very well what the word "flexicurity" means literally for each employer when you have even given him a bag of anti-virtual laws. Flexibility means whenever I want to take you to work for one or two hours, whenever I want you rotating work and a series of other reversals like this. However, the aim of the new negotiation, which, as you say, has been completed, is measures which leave nothing to work. It is foreseen that a new reduction in the minimum wage of EUR 580 for the new entrants, you have even called it a subordinate. Elastic forms of employment are being established and expanded, i.e. the work, a tire with the wages of 100 and 200 euros. Release of redundancies so that the employer is fired and hired whenever he wants and with wages he wants for more and more gain. Full prevalence of individual and operational contracts, so more wage reductions. New reduction in pensions and social benefits. Abolition of what has been left and slaughtered on the advance benefits. Four billion meters in direct and indirect taxes. A new big reduction in tax. You are also talking about giving employers the right to respond with a lock out to the sacred right of workers to the strike. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you're kind, I'll be done in a minute. And because, you know, your fairy tales, which you have been selling so long to the people, will at some point also end in the winds that you sow, so you are bringing in a new trade union law which limits and prohibits the trade union activity and the right of workers to strike. The anti-grassroots intentions of the government were revealed last week, when we got another taste of the best practices in the European Union and the European acquis. With an amendment brought forward by the Minister for Labour, the work of the slave trade offices has been freed. You, SYRIZA, who said that by law you will abolish the slave trade offices, now by law you entrust them and legalize them. You throw at the nails and teeth of slave traders a million and a half unemployed, and on the other hand you say that you are fighting for collective labour contracts. What kind of hypocrisy, really? The SYRIZA Government is currently taking a vote of confidence from the capital, the partners, the European Union, the IMF because it proves capable of carrying out missions not only at the expense of workers and people's rights, but also in relation to the dangerous geopolitical developments and the participation of our country in them. This vote of confidence in the chapter seeks to get the New Democracy and other urban parties, which is why they blame the government for oligopoly, but agreeing on the substance of the anti-popular policy implemented. And they agree with the essence of this strategic choice, which is the capitalist economy and growth, but which requires that all the anti-dumping measures be respected without delay. Does he really put another party, other than the JRC, on a cover issue here and now of the losses suffered by workers and pensioners in the previous period? Does he have another party reintroducing sectoral collective agreements? Does another party put stable and full-time employment by abolishing all the elastic forms of work? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. What do the other parties say? You are highlighting the rights of capital as a cause of the crisis. The rights of capital are at your centre, which is why you have this political choice. That is why all of you have voted together in the third memorandum and all these measures added to the two previous ones. We have brought this House, and let us provoke the proposal for a law of five hundred and twenty trade union organisations, which precisely provides for the abolition of all these anti-grassroots measures and the reintroduction of sectoral collective agreements. You did not, of course, bring it to the House, because you disagree with the substance and content of our proposal. It turns out, therefore, that you are all on the opposite side of that of the workers, on the part of the capitalist economy, which is its criterion. The other proposal, our proposal, is being put forward by us. We are clearly saying that for as long as the economy is in business groups, as long as they are in the neck of our people, the situation will deteriorate. We stress the need today for our working class and people to be united with the JRC in the fight to be ownership of the factories and mass productions in order to exploit all the productive potential of our country so that by its own power and by means of a central planning tool it can meet its real needs. In this form of organization of the economy, with the working class in power, only then will the great deadlocks caused by the barbaric measures and your capitalist economy be solved. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. However, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that there are three remaining Members from yesterday. The Conference of Presidents also arranged for all Members to speak for seven minutes. That is a good thing, because there is sometimes a time cut. However, there must also be respect for the Members who have to speak for seven minutes, so that we do not reach ten minutes, as Mr Steriou has just said, because we are creating a matter for the rest of the Members. In general, to say that this position is not right, to speak more and others cannot talk about their normal time, which is seven minutes. So the request is to keep time with some tolerance of one minute, so we can all talk. Following Mr Steeriou, Mr. Psychogios, Member of SYRIZA, is followed by the request for compliance with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be consistent. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have in front of us a budget with real budgetary constraints within the framework of and agreement with the institutions, which is not the only budget at the moment in Europe that has budgetary constraints, whether we are on a memorandum or not. It is a set of states' budgets, as is in Italy that we had the opportunity to discuss with colleagues in Paris at the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, where there are specific restrictions, specific austerity policies. However, no one can ignore the social pretext of this budget, which is based on social justice, but also on the strengthening of the social state. I quote the following numbers, which I think are the best proof of my above position. Additional EUR 300 million for health, education and welfare expenditure. Another 100 million more for the protection of the first home and for vulnerable social strata, to complete the instalments of the highly indebted households that cannot be repaid by the citizens themselves. It is very important that this aid, together with the extrajudicial mechanism with the small and medium-sized enterprises that we are preparing, will give serious protection to both the first home and the most indebted households. Four thousand intakes in health and another five thousand in other sectors. With regard to development policy, it should be noted that in 2017 they are expected to fall into the economy of around 6 billion European funds. The Public Investment Programme is estimated at EUR 1 billion, an increase of EUR 250 million, an amount completely contradictory to that of previous governments, taking into account the enormous reduction that has been under way over the past five years. These result from the positions of the relevant Minister of State, Mr. Haritsis, as well as the activation of funds of EUR 9 billion by the end of 2016 from the NSRF, an impressive and insignificant amount, as well as the absorption rate demonstrated by the Greek Government and the Greek state for these programmes. But, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is not just accounting figures. As is clear from the above, a budget is also the general target of a government for policy that is to be deleted next year in the various sectors. So I would like to focus on two of them for different reasons. The first is the refugee and immigration policy. Developments over the last one and a half years in refugees have made immigration policy one of the most critical areas for our country. Article 2 of the draft budget law provides for EUR 39 million for the Ministry of Migration Policy in the ordinary budget and EUR 25 million for the public investment budget. We also, as you know, draw funds from the European Commission's humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid funds, DG ECO and DG HOME, which you know very well, and we have discussed earlier opportunities with questions. The newly established Ministry of Migration Policy will focus next year on the optimal establishment of its structures and their staff with emphasis on the asylum service, which must be accelerated and strengthened by the European Union in terms of staffing, as well as the reception and identification service. Our main objective remains to improve the living conditions of refugees, who entered our country by defining coordinators at the hospitality centres which have already begun on the islands, and also to organise structures under rules of operation. The main priority is the protection of vulnerable groups and particularly unaccompanied minors. In any case, we must proceed directly to the application of the provisions of Law No.4375/2016, which provides for the relevant provisions. In addition, special weight will also be given to promoting integration policies for refugees in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Interior so that they can live and join our country before they are relocated or if we have to host them and keep them here after the asylum procedure. All this will be implemented through a series of legislative and administrative initiatives, which need to be completed as soon as possible. I should like to remind you here of an essential initiative on the part of the public investment that the relevant Ministry plans to finance and on projects and actions to relieve the local municipalities that have increased needs due to the refugee problem. This fund will be of the order of EUR 10 million and, combined with the suspension of the application of the VAT increase to the islands, I think it gives what these municipalities and islands deserve for everything they have provided so far in the refugee sector. These actions need to be launched, as I mentioned immediately before, to normalise the difficulties that both refugees and residents of the Greek islands are experiencing. As the left, we must have as our main concern the management of the issue above all with humanity and full respect for the rights of refugees. After all, these obligations result both morally and legally from the international texts and we should not divide fear as Mrs Christodoulopoulos said yesterday from the Step forward of the House, but also share responsibility in Europe and also internally. A brief reference to the part of sport, where since February 2015 the Ministry of Sports and the General Secretariat of Sports have implemented a series of initiatives that have begun to reshape the image of Greek sport. Soon the new sport law will be put to the vote, which will regulate important issues of amateur mainly sport, where I have served for several years and I know of its importance, including the electoral system of simple proportionality. It will put an end to the smuggling of public money into sport through grants to sports federations with specific criteria and control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It will be completed by the Electronic Register of Sports Bodies - one minute, Mr President, I will be very brief - which is an electronic platform with free access around the world. New infrastructure and projects in the region will proceed not in its logic 'all projects in a prefecture or in a municipality' but in the logic of many small projects across the territory, in consultation with local bodies. Finally, we will give the battle to the end for the clearance of Greek football that is a very difficult process, but that has begun to work. In conclusion, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that despite the difficulties - and we are well aware of the difficulties and problems of Greek society - we remain and are an integral part of this society, we listen to it, we listen to it and we know very well that they also know the battle we are fighting both inside and outside Greece. As long as this war on the part of both the Opposition and the media and the institutions continues, we will know that we are not integrated, that we are continuing the battle that we are fighting and moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Georgiotis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. After the Prime Minister's efforts yesterday to get a nice atmosphere here, I think that within a few hours this effort has been evaporated and we need to see the raw reality. I am obliged to respond first to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mrs Gerovas, for some of the information she used yesterday to show the situation in the public, which is false. I have to say it and I'll prove it right away. One issue, which has also been a real issue but also a symbolic one in our society in recent months, is the question of post-mortem officials from the ministries. A lot has been heard because, as it is understandable, a society that is suffering cannot accept such an excessive burden from an increase in posted staff, which is often not justified or most is not justified. Yesterday, the Minister from this point of view, on the other hand, said that, for the first time, the number of posted officials for the first time has passed the number of two thousand, namely two thousand sixty-seven, but he justified it as follows: for the first time, not only the poster, but also the scientific associates and the experts who were previously not registered in this specific application. No falseer than that! I have in my hands an answer from the previous Minister, Mr Vernardakis, dated February 2016, who, in a question from Members of the New Democracy, answers the number of posters and explains the increase in the number of posted officials, that is, since October 2015, a thousand five hundred seventeen hundred eight, in November, a thousand eighteen and in December, a thousand nineteen and one, as an excuse to say that for the first time we are putting all posters, experts and scientists. Therefore, even if it is true that this has been done in a single application, this has already been done since December 2015. In the Minutes, I answer Mr Vernardakis. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This means that the thousand nine hundred one in December 2015 are already two thousand sixty-seven. The number of sixty - six may also not seem too large. But we know very well that in relation to the total number of retired persons and it is too high and it is a great burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u7	One hundred and sixty people! You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u8	He's true, Mr. Papadopoulos. It's with paperwork, it's with paperwork. One hundred and sixty-six are, at least, based on your data, for which we have many reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u9	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u10	Well done, Greek society will tell you sometime. Apart from that, however, we have a raid on what the government has to do with this government. And it's not just about the poster, it's about trying to create a new generation of contractors with fake, many times, anticipation of their legitimacy. Questions have already been asked why, in breach of both the Constitution and the relevant laws, by means of legislative amendments which we know do not have the financial burden report, we have fixed-term contracts, which may have only been judged by one court. In other words, they have not been deemed irreversibly and even though they have only been judged by a court, without any justification for the feasibility or necessity of their recruitment and without respecting the procedure of the AACC, for which SYRIZA has an allergy, they are permanently subject to parliamentary amendments, which come to a firm conclusion. The ASAP has effectively neglected it. You are not using it anywhere, nor where you must use it, and, of course, it has a specific purpose, which I think has become apparent in Greek society, but we will no longer allow it to continue. There were two legislations that the government brought in in 2016 for the public administration. One is the famous Public Executive Register, which has created additional structures unnecessarily. It has created the so-called administrative secretaries, which will operate in parallel with the Secretary-General, who will also have alternate administrative secretaries. It never worked the famous record, which would be taken from the public tank by executives who would take responsibility. It had to work as of 31 July. Today we have December. It has not worked and no appointments are still made with your well-known criteria. Of course, the expression in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that 'we are going toward a decommissioning of the State' has become a joke for all civil servants. The bill on public mobility was adopted the day before yesterday, which also has too many issues that the bill itself does not resolve and as has been mentioned by too many, it once again creates a new possibility of intervention in the movement of civil servants without any objective criteria and without any merit. What you're trying to do is just a glitch in the public eye. Civil servants, you know, have begun and realised that what can save both their wages and their dignity and self-respect is a government that will really do what it needs for the real economy in the country. If the real economy does not work, if the pie does not grow, the pie, which shares to all of us, then with the "cutter", which you have voted on, is certain that along with all other Greeks, both civil servants and pensioners will come to a very unfavourable position. The cutter has been voted on. We must now all look forward to a government that can build up the economy. As far as yesterday's announcements are concerned, I have to mention something about Kilkis. The Prime Minister rightly said that the islands of the north and east Aegean are the ones that raised the refugee crisis and they must be given a breath. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. However, in all what the Prime Minister has given us, it is good to find those few hundred thousand euros which have been due for two years to farmers in Idomenos whose farms had been imprisoned. A thousand promises have been made to restore them. It's very few hundred thousand euros. But the official excuse is that they can't find a code to make that payment. You have so much imagination on all matters. Find a code to compensate Idomen's farmers as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr Georgioda, particularly for the consistency of time. Mr Scandalides, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have the announcements of today's Prime Minister a few days before he settled in Maximos. In the debate on the 2015 budget, Mr. Tsipras condensed SYRIZA's strategic promise in a phrase: "We will bring money without a memorandum". The money would bring it to the start by deleting the debt, then deleting at least half of it more recently by deleting part of it. Eurogroup's decision defrauded the ability to negotiate the debt, even under the overwhelming best conditions of 2012. The result is tragic: Little relief and funding needs until 2060 and in return a new memorandum on unfavourable terms, commitment to long-term maintenance of the primary surplus at levels of 3.5% of GDP, when you knew and said that even the 2017 budget could not respond to such sizes, abandoning the announcement of long-term debt measures. Now what are we waiting for? We expect a new medium-term programme based on the second assessment and the dramatic measures of a new memorandum accompanying it. Where is the theory of shameful and burdensome debts found? What happened to the international conference that would oblige lenders to change their minds? It's been two years. In the same debate on the 2017 budget, what is the result of your policy that loaded the country with an additional EUR 40 to 100 billion, according to the calculations of various economists? I'll tell you with a phrase. You would bring money without a Memorandum and bring a Memorandum without money and even more than one Memorandum and much worse to commitments and, at the same time, to cuts and the absolute authorisation of the Fund. It is the great defeat, the total defeat of the strategy, which brought this government to power and left only the monotonous endurance, which accompanied all popular mobilisation and was recorded the day before yesterday in a statement from SYRIZA: "We call on the people to protest against the policy of monuments and austerity". If it wasn't tragic, I'd say it was a prank. Yesterday we lived another letter from the Prime Minister. What other than a confession of defeat is this spurious proclamation? It took an order to baptize the distribution of 617 million to the infamous pensioners as the thirteenth wage, as though wages were a one-off contribution and suspension for a year of the increase in VAT as a revolutionary act, which we have even tabled as a proposal for a long time ago! When at the same time the other pocket removes 2.1 billion over-indirect taxes, reduces the lower pensions and cuts social security costs when it gets from the poor to lure the poorest, while at the same time dismantling the middle class and losing every production capacity in the country, when expenditure on the social state not only remains stable, but also the daily management has turned their institutions, schools, hospitals, employment and pension structures into ruins, when the relationship between direct and indirect taxes is dramatically overthrowing, burdening exclusively the family and individual income of the weaker classes and layers, what does the budget, which you have and you are supporting with the real left? Where is the redistribution of wealth and the redistribution of income in the last economic policy manual? How can this policy be justified as a social policy, as a real Left? The Government claims that the budget is developmental and even provides for high growth in 2017. I wonder where this fantastic picture results from. Development has some definite conditions for it to happen. First, liquidity in the market. How? With the Capital Controls? Secondly, direct, rapid and effective investments. How? With the obstacles to government pluralism? With the state blocking growth? The turtle rate of privatization? Using the country's productive and development potential. How? By exporting to the outside the precious capital of the knowledge of the new generation? The business's fleeing? Late resources available? With the necessary state reforms in the tax system to promote growth and to overcome bureaucracy. How? With stagnation, pluralism, micro-party appointings, institutional dystomia, the total absence of reformist breath, the labyrinth of bureaucratic processes? The theory that the economy took to the bottom and now it is time for it to be ejected, at the most, to justify some figures on time. But third-worldism and poverty do not stop it. And the question is: Can a government of contradictory powers, a political system committed to trying to justify yesterday, a democracy whose institutions are in crisis and dismantling conditions, stop the catastrophe, reverse this course? That is why there is a need for national consultation on the areas which are needed and, above all, on the difficult decisions and practices that implement them. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the duty of closing this debate with the political environment. At a time when black clouds are piled up in the horizon, at a time when Europe lives the end of Maastrich, which is strongly questioned, but is unable to conclude a new progressive treaty, at a time when our region is refocusing on new strategic arrangements, Greece reacts with operate consents or dangerous gymnastic tensions. At a time when in the unequal and irrational world of systemic interests an antisystemic populist is opposed, or rather gray, to lead societies to conservative reflexive and awakening ghosts of the past, at a time when the search for the new is represented in aspiring reformists or radical populists, who in the name of the renewal go up and erase as dissecting stars, at a time when Greece is weakened, downgraded and marginalized, continues to be divided by a glimpse of yesterday, by a political autistic system that is unable to overcome itself, I will say it clearly: the place is experiencing a deep crisis of leadership. The task of the parliamentary forces is to raise their stature and to open a new way to right-wing rehabilitation for antisystemic populism. And if they don't find him the way, they'll create him. The reconstruction of the Democratic Progressive Party is not a matter for a mere party. It is a vital need for the country's progress. And those of us who are struggling to serve her, I think we should take the road to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Dimitrios Rizzos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u15	And ladies, it doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u16	And ladies, I'm sorry. Yes, ladies of particular gravity. Before I begin my introduction, let's make a comment on yesterday's announcements about the Prime Minister's announcements. They have caused some embarrassment to see with colleagues in the counterpopulation. I think they were measures due to the Greek people. They cover part of his losses, support our low pensioners and islanders. Some people say it's election counterweight. Let's not judge the differentists themselves. I shall refer to a number of points relating to the area of national defence. First of all, let us define the framework within which our country exists and moves around, the cycles of violence and conflict, the cycles of instability in our region, the Black Sea, the Middle East and North Africa. In this intervening area of conflicts and tensions there is Greece, an island of stability and security. Let's see what we received from the previous ones, 'the deal of truth' and 'the old submarines'. Greek Defence Systems: Debt 650m euros, with unpaid workers even for eight months. Greek Air Force Industry: Tragic situation. What else is there? A multibillion pole in armaments, 26 billion between 1997 and 2006 and 2.2 billion in 2009 on the back of the crisis. The Greek people are asking where this money has been, what they have offered to our country's defence armour, what it works and what it costs to maintain it. What else was delivered? Fourteen cases in court. That's yes, it's a job and it's a good try. What did the current government do in a year and a half? He voted against No.4361: 'Consolidating the issues of transfer of arms, personnelcare and other provisions'. He did, for the first time, the procedures required for the transfer system of soldiers, essays, officers, who know how they were going through until yesterday, with ministerial decisions or some corridors. I mean it. Secondly, it has established a complete moleculosis system in order to bring forwards and positions of soldiers to be transparent and worthy by introducing service, economic and social criteria, and so alone, the place of place and the specialty to be assigned to each soldier. Thirdly, it has restored the possibility for armed doctors to serve at regional hospitals and health centres in remote or mountainous areas, combining their military service with the fulfilment of the countryside service, while covering the gaps that exist in these areas, but at the same time gaining professional experience. All of this applies to law-makers, who cover some time from their exercise time to the legal offices of military law advisers. Also, under this law, the Government has now enabled permanent staff of the Armed Forces who care for children or a wife with a disability rate of more than 67% to work at reduced working hours, without a reduction in their earnings. At the same time, the right to feed was extended to all military clubs, military officials, officers, officers, warlords and prosecutors, as well as civilian personnel. Social criteria for transfers and parents who have at least one child with an incurable or incurable illness have been widened. The Armed Support Office was established to monitor on a daily basis the living conditions and services of the hosts in order to record, evaluate and promote complaints from the hosts on any matter relating to their term of office. The Government voted in July 2016 n. See Part One, Commentary No 4407. MMOKA was founded, a new agency through which the Ministry of National Defence may co-operate with public and local authorities in order to implement projects of local interest, in the border or other remote region, using the resources and personnel of the Armed Forces. In fact, this service may be included in civil protection plans to address emergency and natural disaster situations. Here we can say at least for our Law that Evros has already become a reality. The local population and its structures have been helped in dealing with flooding phenomena, in rural road rehabilitation projects, in community actions in small municipalities with continued support for these vulnerable groups with food or services. At the same time, with this bill, we proceeded with the establishment of a new office of the Ministry of Defence for the development - and only the exploitation - of the real estate and the Hellenic Army, but also of the three funds of the Armed Forces. All this revenue will go from the first section for the needs of the Armed Forces, and the second of the three funds will go for the needs of the shareholders and funds. We must say that for the first time, too, the union of the Armed Forces was institutionalised and some people should be whimpering. What is planned for 2017, taking into account this financial framework? Appropriations amounting to EUR 475 million for armaments are planned. Appropriations have been provided for the partial payment of the retrospective staff owed from 1-8 to 2014, the care, education and training of the Armed Forces staff, the establishment of infrastructures for the accommodation of officials and officials, particularly in border areas. We have a recent example in the Evros Dimotichio in the Prefecture of Prefecture of Evros, where the new facilities for the staff were inaugurated. The Greek Defence Systems provide for a reduction of the deficit by 5 million compared to 2016. Interventions and initiatives, such as restructuring operational units, have been launched in the context of rationalisation without, of course, losing fire force, attempting to divest surplus or unnecessarily necessary military material and reducing the recruitment of seasonal personnel. The 2017 budget fully covers the needs of the country's defensive armour and along with the multidimensional foreign policy of the government, serves to create security and stability conditions in our very troubled region. That is why I invite you to vote in favour of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Bakoyannis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a budget for which the government is proud. I will well accept all the positive scenarios. But you will agree with me that there is not a single analyst who will not say that the country has actually returned to 2014. I will read you an excerpt from a statement from May 2014: "They have been indulged on the eve of European elections in palogy. Who's blaming us? The ones who gave social dividends like the punctual memory booklets? Those who, while giving five hundred and ten days before the elections, intend to take them back and with the above, who have transferred accounts and clearing and hide new measures that have already been decided on?’ Who said that, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u19	Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u20	Alexis Tsipras - of course, Mr Papadopoulos - in the newspaper "NATIONOS" in May 2014, the same man who won a pretext yesterday. Yeah, the impossible ones need support. We agree. But, above all, they need a chance to create wealth, they need jobs. And your panicky Prime Minister promised a one-sided aid, the same man who cut off the EKR and cut wages and pensions, which in the budget, with such enthusiastic votes, brings new taxes of EUR 2.5 billion for all, which increased VAT, direct and indirect taxes and insurance contributions, which loaded EUR 86 billion with the inappropriate memorandum, which returned the economy to a recession of 0.3%. So instead of mocking pensioners, do something more constructive. Return them even a few of the 8 billion euros of government debts due. Support production Greece, the market, entrepreneurship, the jobs that the place needs. And if you really want to support retired people, reduce their income with measures permanently, not occasionally, as you did yesterday, or a one-off one, as the newspapers say today. But you, unregulatedly, as a'modern father', are playing communal tricks on the back of the Greeks. Please provide benefits after you have agreed measures of 9 billion by 2018. I mean, you give them to the world so you can get them back from the back door. In the Eurogroup again, you did not close the evaluation. You are committed to maintaining surpluses of 3.5%. They impose you a high surplus, unfortunately, as a cash collateral, because no one believes you can bring investment. And not only do you not bring them, but you're kicking them out. You have persecuted 'SOCAR' and left a 188 million-dollar hole in the DESFA. You sent out Qatar's investment, we lost 2 billion. You did the same in Aphateu. IPTO stays in the fridge. Colleagues of the Government, the only way to get out of the crisis and create jobs is to attract investment and support the private economy. In 2014 we left you direct foreign investment of 1.26 billion. Where'd you get them? At minus 261 million last year, minus 25 million in the first quarter of 2016. At a time when foreign investment in Europe has a historical record of 14%, we are at the bottom of Greece. You signed the Greek unfinished and then stop. You're looking for a new signature. You haven't brought a single investment. And yesterday - listen, listen! - We hear the unprecedented statement by the Minister of Economy, Mr. Papadimitriou. I read it to you: 'High taxation does not adversely affect competitiveness'. This was made clear by the professor. I do not know whether this is the view of the academic or the Minister, in which capacity he has formulated it. In any case, he left all insurmountable. Let me remind Mr Papadimitriou that on November 14 - not far ago, a month ago - he had himself again - I suppose in another capacity - he said that the high tax rates do not attract investment. A similar statement was made by Mr Tsakalotos in Parliament the other day: "To reduce the surplus to 2%..." - we agree - '... to be able to reduce 1,8 billion from taxation to become more competitive'. Uh, now, ladies and gentlemen, it's my fault if I say you'd totally drive us crazy? Can't you at some point agree on what this SYRIZA desert really thinks? You know very well that overtaxation has pushed out billions of capital. I'll give you an example from the tourist market, because it's worth talking with numbers. Let us compare a hypothetical investment of 10 million for the creation of a hotel in Greece and Spain. With an annual turnover of 3 million, a gross profit of 1 million before taxes, interest and depreciation is calculated. In Spain the investor's burden is income tax and low VAT. In Greece we start with higher VAT, more expensive borrowing, at a rate of at least 4% higher than the corresponding Spanish, plus the overnight fee. This means that in the decade of depreciation of the investment, additional expenditure is equivalent to 5 million. Due to overtaxation, the investor in Greece starts with a minus of 5 million for an investment of 10 million. Why would he come? Can the professor explain that to me? The numbers, the bad lies, they're relentless. In the first nine months of 2016, we had 33.5% more padlocks since last year. Due to your tax raid and allergy to reforms, in the global competitiveness classification we have fallen to the 86th place. And you are mocking businessmen with a complex development law that provides for aids of 550 million by 2022 and tax exemptions only 127 million by 2018, i.e. a hole in the water. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, you have parked a European fund of 1 billion in the EIB for entrepreneurship and for the last two years you have not made programmes. In fact, last year you returned to the unused 500 million for resources that could effectively multiplying the market seriously. And that's not how it burns to anyone. I'll be standing in the N.R.R.A. too. I want to inform the Minister that the country has received an additional 7% pre-financing for 2015, 2016, almost one billion. That's all right, that's all. However, if the total amount of pre-financing is not covered by payment claims by 31 December, Greece is obliged to reimburse the entire amount. I'm beating the alarm bell to the government. It's gonna be a pity, along with the other money you've lost, to lose, too. Ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy we do not promise magic solutions. We know very well what we're saying and how we can get the economy back on track. The reality is that the Greek people can't stand any more mocking. The production of Greece, Greece, which really wants to make progress, asks you to leave an hour early.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u21	Mr Kaisha, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2017 budget, the budget that sets a target for growth of 2.7%, the budget that covers social needs by increasing the funds for health and education and establishing the social solidarity allowance throughout the country. There are voices that this objective will not be reached. These are the voices that we were told that a cut-off will be applied in 2016. And instead of cutting, we had a surplus and he shared with the low-pensioners. And now we're shouting because he shared. Today, then, we welcome the first genuinely development budget, which at the same time guarantees a substantial social protection net. The current budget is not only a budget for growth and stability, but also a budget for social responsibility, a budget for the treatment and relief of the wounds. And the wounds that have suffered the country as a whole in recent years are huge. In particular, the health area was ruthlessly hit in the years of the crisis. That's why I'm going to talk to you more thoroughly because of my work. Health history in our country is well known. There were problems: supplies, waste and party administrations. However, the choices of the previous governments have impoverished the public health system with huge cuts in funding and redundancies, with the most characteristic of this redundancy of two and a half thousand doctors in the CEN in just one day. I don't know if there's a history of such dismissal. The shortages in staff became tragic, bringing the deficit to staff. The problems were raised to such an extent that the collapse of the system was certain. In 2015, we received a system that was kept alive only thanks to the disapproval of workers. We received a system that denied treatment to two and a half million citizens. Thousands of our insecure fellow citizens were forced to resort to treatment in social medicine and social pharmacies, which were trying to fill this gap. Our first budget, that of 2016, with the increase of funds and the appointment of about three and a half thousand executives, has stopped the free drop in health and has allowed free care to be provided to all uninsured. The budget that we are voting on today, as far as health is concerned, goes in three directions: to strengthen, to organise and to change orientation. The new budget also provides for additional support to the health and education system and supports all health units in the country. Thousands of new jobs are being opened for both permanent and subsidiary staff. In particular, with regard to permanent staff, four thousand recruitments are provided for doctors, nurses and other staff, while short-term contracts with European programmes, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and OAED, are placed over seven thousand medical and nursing staff. With regard to the better organisation by strengthening and staffing the competent services, citizens are given new health services, such as patient and disease electronic registries, the citizen's health card, the electronic ETS and hospitals' appointments, the electronic demand for laboratory examinations, the surgery list. In addition, self-incident sections are organised in regional and prefective hospitals, as well as centres of chronic illness, such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive lung diseases, etc. I have at the end left at the end the third axis of health interventions, that of the change of direction, that is, the great shift in prevention and primary care, a major and structural change that the system brings really closer to the citizen. Two hundred and sixty local health units are established mainly in urban centres, and the programme provides for sixteen-hour operation. Each of them will be managed by a group of scientists, such as doctors, dentists, psychologists, midwife, social workers. The results will be evident and will improve everyone's life. We will have a direct service to the citizen, a great deal of decongestion to hospitals from primary care and above all, the restoration of public confidence in public care. At the same time, with local health units in the difficult areas and on our islands, the already existing units of PEDY, health centres, regional medical facilities, in particular the recruitment of the doctors I mentioned above are being upgraded. That is how we ensure direct access to the health system by citizens throughout the country, wherever they are. To sum up, I have to say: no matter how much screaming we hear, no matter how much we hear, the reality is one. The strengthening and better organisation of existing infrastructures, innovative health benefits through new electronic services, but much more through a shift in prevention and primary care, are all that lead me to welcome the 2017 budget, a budget not only developmental, but above all socially sensitive, which I am voting on and which I am unreservedly supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Today is a leading moment in our Parliament, the budget of our state, but also a budget for its people, with a multitude of dimensions and not just with an accounting content. At the same time, however, there is an account. It is true that the Greek society has sinned as a result of evil, as was the case with the Greek society at the time it flows. Yes, Mr. Papadopoulos, for others you moved and your authority goes elsewhere. One would expect modesty, but we see, on the other hand, SYRIZA's fellow Members and colleagues, behave with an aggression, with a memorableness, and often with an aggression. You saw that from a crowd of opposition - and I am not talking about the extremities, meaning the Chrysayites - you did not hear here, at that time, hybrids, if you would like to see threats. We, unfortunately, tasted them in our own governance in 2012-2014. And I felt too many times bad, ladies and gentlemen, while I see that you do not feel, if you wish, any need for an apology and an apology. In any case, you are going on for 2017 as well and you are taking advantage of it, if you want, the owners and the holders, the privileged, with 2.6 billion, by indirect and direct taxes: 437 million VAT increase, 422 million VAT increase on heating oil, 89 million on mobile telephony and pay-TV, 62 million tax increase on beer, 62 million coffee tax increase, 142 million cigarettes, 12.5 million on traffic charges. So, for the privileged to learn! You're good for them! And, of course, we're going to pensions. In 2016, two hundred and fifty-five thousand pensioners had a 6% reduction. Three hundred and fifty thousand pensioners had a reduction of 40% to 50%. Three hundred and fifty thousand pensioners had a reduction in subsidiary numbers from 30% to 50%. The widow's pensions were reduced from 20% to 40%. We had 345 million in the form of a horizontal pension in respect of widowhood. Temporary pensions from 80% went to 50%. And of course, the reduction for 2017- the Katrugalu law - will be 15% to 30% for pensions. We're not talking about CSCE, about 940 million. And, of course, the officers of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies are waiting for retrospectives. Mr. Kammenos would leave the government. By the end of September he would have brought the amendment on pay scores - matures, he would have found the equivalents otherwise he would have resigned. We're still waiting for him to quit. At the same time, we see him crossing the islands with Cassidy, in order to increase the prestige of his own presence. Unfortunately, that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. We won't talk about unemployment. You didn't do anything. We saw that in November the unemployed increased by eighty-three thousand. And, of course, you refer to the budget you have submitted, as far as the New Democracy is concerned: "In 2014..." - page 10 - "the first signs of recovery in the labour market appeared, with a reduction in unemployment of 0.8 percentage points". You refer to your budget what New Democracy did. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see what's going on in the agricultural sector, Mr. Papadopoulos. Farmers will be taxed on the basis of the scale of employees and pensioners, with rates starting from 22% to 45%. For the first time, basic agricultural aid is taxed, as far as the abolition of excise duty is concerned, on agricultural oil. VAT on agricultural products increased to 24%, while farmers sell 13%. Higher tax by 36.6% will pay those who receive rents from the rent for rural land. The definition of a farmer is now made on another basis. If it exceeds 50%, otherwise it will be characterized by its income. And since I come, of course, from a particularly rural and livestock region, Drama, I refer to the particular problems with regard to the rural world and in particular a lecanomide, as we hear Drama and our minds go to Lower Nerokopi. This is the second year in which the potato growers - which is a monoculture - do not receive any state aid. You have forgotten them, despite the promises made by the Minister in question - and now that it has changed - that it will go on the spot. He didn't dare step on it, and I don't think he's even going to step on it either. Enterprises in the county, or close or leave the next country. The same happens in too many prefectures. I have heard your rapporteur from Grevena say, as far as business is concerned, that it is going well, especially in his prefecture. I got the evidence. In legal form, public limited companies, etc..................................................................................................................... Minus forty-two, i.e. 50% reduction. As far as other forms are concerned, tourists, with regard to anonymous companies and other companies, are hundreds of seventy ones and closed three hundred and twenty-two businesses. I'm filing that too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to Mr Tsipras' indulgence - where he shared the mirrors to the indigenous people yesterday - he did not tell us about the 7.5 billion, which does not return to those he owes, the 94 billion hedging debts. And of course it was also yesterday's report by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, that we should end up at 3.5% of the surplus, so that around 2040 there could be a breath and 2060 could be removed from this infamously unbearable debt. And yesterday we heard the IMF referring to high-quality measures. So that's what you're talking about. And of course I would like to conclude with regard to the historical necessity to which a SYRIZA colleague referred to in Parliament in a debate that we had with other colleagues. 'You are wrong, ladies and gentlemen,' he says. ‘I have heard your debate and reached a conclusion. Our thinking is quite different, which is why we draw to different conclusions." "What do you say, my colleague?" I say to him. We are in Parliament and it tells me: 'We do not believe these in our ideology. We must, however, make use of these things to remain in power. We'll agree with the devil, and so many other measures we'll take. We must remain in power." That's your only purpose. And, of course, it is next time that you will bring in other measures, you will agree to other measures. Your stay in power alone is what holds you. This is what you seek, a level of poverty. And because I'm from the north county of the country, I've lived through situations of cologne, what is a skate, what is a nomenclura, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u25	Name tell us which colleague told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u26	And of course, the people will no longer forget what left means.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Papadopoulos, the whole House is addressed to you! Ladies and gentlemen, we are informed in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the educational program "Worker of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, while at the same time they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", two schools, forty-three students and students and three teachers from the 60th Primary School of Patras and twenty-six students and two teachers from the 3rd Arcaceio Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, New Democracy MP Mr Kalafatis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad, because he will be in Germany to fulfil party obligations from 11-12-2016 to 15-12-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the next speaker, Mr Ballis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is the opposition trying to do these days of the budget debate? On the one hand, to dismantle the government's policy and choices by using selective elements, to challenge the elements of the budget that reflect today's real difficulties, but at the same time also reflect the reversal of the climate, as the economy is now going through a development phase. On the other hand, the Anti-Civilization attempts to restore its own choices as supposedly the only right for the future, the choices of poverty. I must say, of course, that yesterday I heard a great truth from the Civic Opposition, by a New Democracy Member, near midnight, who wanted to comment on the Prime Minister's letter yesterday, saying: 'As Mr Tsipras would attempt to get out of the way'. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, moving forward is already something that is happening. Go ahead with society, which is the time to benefit from the results of its own sacrifices. Sacrifices to which your own policy has led them. Yesterday, the Prime Minister simply did what we have promised: What is left over will be returned to society, to those who deserve it, to those who have held the country upright, to those who have paid disproportionately more than those who have favored and covered. Yesterday was a start. Patience or more will come. We still have two budgets to submit to the next ones after the 2019 elections. Find something new at last to say without the repetitions you have made in these days and even by altering or even selective use of the facts. For the truth of the matter, let us remember some of what the Civic Opposition has advocated. What did they say? Firstly, - the special speaker said it - that Europeans and Community officials describe in black the current state of the Greek economy and have also presented evidence. Who? Again, the same statements of Reggling and Dobrovskis. You've become a happy atmosphere with these two. But there are other statements than these, such as Dieselblum in September 2016, which says the first signs of recovery in Greece now appear. As of August 2016, Moscovici saw recovery for 2016, in 2017, in 2018. If you ignore them, let us give them to the Minutes to study them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is not the case, of course, on your part. What else did they tell us? Secondly, that banks have been cleared from deposits. They restore the rhetoric that led to the bank run at the beginning of 2015. What's the truth? That households are starting and returning the money to their accounts and that we have an inflow of deposits. I'm not saying it. It says the last financial bulletin of Alpha Bank. If you are interested in this, we also give it to the Minutes to study it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The government is, of course, accused of many other things, but we are not reminded by the New Democracy colleagues and what was before the capital controls, to which they referred yesterday. They did not tell us about the Stournara statements or other European officials or their own officials. They also did not remind us that Mr Stournaras in December 2014, starting a negative forecast cycle just before the elections and the certain election victory of SYRIZA, warned of a possible lack of liquidity in banks. Here are the statements made by Mr Stournara, I also make them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the statements referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Nor did they remind us of what Mr Adonis Georgiadis had said in an interview on June 23, 2015 shortly before the closure of the banks in the German magazine "FOCUS ON LINE", where he opens the issue of control of funds and the closure of banks and in particular urges European officials to reject the Tsipras proposals. I remind you of the critical negotiation. Let me remind you of these statements in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the statements referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And what else did they stand for? That the best debt reduction decision so far was the 2012 PSI. At 130 to 140 billion Mr Hatzidakis identified this gain in his speech. The 108 billion referred to Mr Loverdos' speech yesterday. At 160 billion the inspiration of the project, Mr. Venizelos. What don't they tell us about this PSI? First of all, that the foreign banks were won and the Greek banks were lost and, above all, the insurance funds. We are not told that immediately after the PSI, Greek banks had to be recapitalised with a debt of EUR 41 billion. Only the four big banks needed 28.25 billion euros. And this is from a report from the Bank of Greece and I present it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In addition, we borrowed another EUR 11.3 billion for the debt repurchase. We are not told that the insurance funds have lost EUR 16 billion and I believe that no one from the Opposition can question it, because there is evidence. We borrowed an additional EUR 4.5 billion for the provision of EFSF bonds, that we have borrowed another 11.9 billion to cover deficits in the 2012 budget and that 1.9 billion was paid for public obligations. I am not saying that it is from the relevant report of the Bank of Greece, which I have just delivered to the Minutes. The net result, says the Bank of Greece, was EUR 51.2 billion. And the question remains: Since the PSI was the salvage solution, why did the European Union decide not to repeat such recipes in the future? Colleagues of counterpopulation, you should reconcile with the idea that your attempt to restore your own failed recipe cannot pass. Because it is the recipe of the least social state, it is the recipe of less health for all, of less education for all children and it is the recipe of most redundancies and cuts. You should get used to the idea that the 2017 budget shows the change of pages to a Greece with more growth and jobs, with more social justice, with more optimism and especially with hope for recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Mr. Dritsa, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget this year and in general the debate on the course of the Greek economy, the Greek society, is indeed taking place within a framework of a European but also internationally volatile and commonly accepted as transitional. The crucial issue, of course, is that although everyone admits that the big and powerful countries, where neoliberal capitalism has been implemented over the past thirty years, have been in crisis, yet this transition also cannot be said throughout the world. But it is certain that we are going to a transition process involving and enclosing enormous contradictions, but also contradictions. This is exactly how today's reality is measured in our country, and this is how every initiative for government planning is measured, and if no one can see things in this reality, it can only make selective, individual and usually intentional comments. There are some stereotypes of decades in our country. I have been telling you for over fifty years, ladies and gentlemen, since my teenage age - political things and political rhetoric, and within Parliament at that time, in my youth, through newspapers. The budget debate has always dominated and dominated the same stereotypes. Unjust, without planning, and above all the basic stereotype, that it is inappropriate to apply any budget. Many times, yes, it was true, because most of the budgets in the past were deficits or proved to be deficits. Come on, though, where this repeated stereotype argument cannot find any basis in the last two years. In huge difficulties, in the contradictions that I have mentioned, in the incredible tough situations, a left-wing government is implementing and implementing one - you will say unfair, yes, to admit it, unfair as many social strata - budget that it has received, the 2015 budget, and implements our 2016 budget, precisely through great sacrifices by the Greek people, and possibly also by harsh injustices that we should not be reassured at any time, to achieve surpluses. The serious question that arises is what one is doing with these surpluses. Please leave this miserable approach that you've taken it and now you're giving crumbs. The surpluses were produced from the implementation of a policy. The question is what one is doing with them. Conservative neoliberal approach would be - and say whether this could be your business and your opinion - to make stockpiles. The government of SYRIZA considers not only an obligation, as was rightly said just before, the even small aid and redistribution in favour of the most severely affected social strata of Greek society. It is precisely this small support, but at the same time it is also in our basic and firm direction, that, yes, overcoming the crisis and recovery requires budgetary discipline, requires an adaptation to a number of rules, but it also requires a strengthening of active demand, where one can and as much as possible. No capitalist country around the world since the 1929 crisis and Roosevelt's "New Deal" never escaped the economic capitalist crisis, without stimulating active demand. But is the Prime Minister's announcement sufficient to meet this need? No, but it is in this direction and is consistent, precisely with the Thessaloniki programme which was not a benefit plan, as has been slandered, but it was just a planned programme of strengthening active demand as a mechanism to overcome the crisis and as an act of justice at the same time. This political debate and choices cannot be made by the parties of the Greek Parliament, while remaining in this foolish, unscrupulous practice of dismantling the opponent as the only political tool with all the stereotypes that are constantly repeated? That is what we are asking for in the budget. Mr President, although I had planned to deal with many other issues, I would like to make it possible for me to refer to another crucial issue. Ladies and gentlemen - and this cannot be understood by the New Democracy and other parties in this House - this government is not threatened by the social struggles, even when they are against it. Not even the big strike mobilizations. It does not feel threatened, precisely because the relationship between SYRIZA and the government of SYRIZA - ANEL with Greek society and its needs is completely different from the relationship between the New Democracy and other parties within the Parliament. But right here, we have to think about it. I would like to send an appeal, a message from the Step of the Parliament to the maritime world of the country, where the problems of seafarers are indeed huge and acute and the major one, a problem for which they have had and will have the encouragement and support of the Greek Government, whatever minister may be at the Ministry of Shipping, is to increase jobs in shipping and to sign a new collective agreement, which has been concluded for a long time between WNO and the Union of Greek Shipowners - but this is not a decision of the Ministry, it is their own - with a drastic prediction of an increase in Greek seafarers on ships with Greek flags and on Greek vessels. That was our policy, and some trade unionists told us, 'do not interfere in ours'. That creates alliances. It is a request, which has been resolved before the strike begins, because there has never been such a question and very clearly yesterday the Minister, Mr Tsakalots, once again had to clarify it in the official way from the Step of the House and it is written in the official minutes, that such a matter of the assimilation of the Greek seafarers to their tax obligation with the other taxpayers has never been raised. As a proposal, a new draft was not put forward as a government decision, as was the increase in the rate. These have been very cleared up. That is the request for the peak of this strike. There is much more, of course, because the marine world has many problems, but, to God, the trade union movement and the Greek society and the workers need alliances. Leave the government. All right, they're pushing the government, but what's to press? It's a blind approach and an alliance with hegemony the trade unionists of the right at the WMO. Can the Greek seafarers not seek social alliances, instead of tearing them apart in such a way? I call for the approach and interests of seafarers. I will not say it myself, but I have to say it on my side of responsibility. This strike does not do well, not to the government, not to the islanders who do not do, not to transport goods, but to the future of the country's shipping world. From this point of view, this is also a topical issue ahead of the process of raising and overcoming the crisis, how exactly the workers' racing claims will create an alternative plan, consistent, which will include all the forces of the Greek people and not just individual sectors. I'm stopping here on the many other things I could say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Mr Kasapidis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the previous Minister told us that workers' protests do not benefit the country, while at the same time his party called in racing mobilisations the party officials and the entire Greek people. There's probably a problem of communication and consultation within the government and SYRIZA, so let the conclusions be drawn from the Greek people. It is our duty, however, to check on the credibility and effectiveness of the current government and on the basis of whether the words and promises of yesterday are effective and have a practical effect today on works and deeds. All this in the world, which is characterized by rapid developments, from reconstructs, from intense competition to wars in our neighborhood. Economic, social and scientific developments are rapid and, unfortunately, our country is far from them, and this harms our interests in many cases. At the same time in the European Union, strong triumphs, deep cracks through the exit of England from the European Union, but also the negative expression of Italy, as well as the phenomena observed in other countries, create all these divergent tendencies that literally shake the European structure, which will have to regain its collective identity without losing the integrity of nations and peoples. This is also a duty for both our country and the spiritual world and the intellectuals of Europe to re-orientate European integration and the European Union on the basis of cultural, which is definitely the Greek-Roman Christian. On this basis, therefore, we will have to discuss again and see convergence in politics, cultural, economic and social terms. Otherwise I fear that these divergent trends will become increasingly intense with much more unpleasant developments. At the same time in Greece, we are living through our own developments, mainly following the government's governance by the new government, from the phenomenon of the negotiation of the former Minister of Economy, Mr Varoufakis, where a common confession has now been that the country and the current government have lost valuable time to take unfair and unjust measures, which exaggerate the income of Greek citizens, increase the cost of living, create severe pressures on entrepreneurship and in many cases lead new people abroad, but also to the departure of businesses to neighbouring countries. These phenomena, unfortunately, also affect the agricultural sector, the basis of the real economy in our country, to which I would like to focus following my speech. So we had the promises and commitments of today's government as an Opposition, saying that the "bad" New Democracy, the previous government, led to a dead end to the rural world. In fact, the current Minister for Refugees then called on the Greek farmers to vote 'no' in their referendum and to refuse to take measures demanded by the lenders, which they were described as, as I read in the press release of the Ministry of Rural Development, as measures - tombstone the agricultural sector. What are these measures, ladies and gentlemen? The increase in the tax rate from 13% to 26%, the increase in tax advance from 27.5% to 100%, the abolition of the exemption from the subsidy tax for amounts of up to EUR 12.000, the tripling of the OGA's contributions, the increase in VAT from 13% to 23%. It is a total of 10 measures, all of which have all been voted on by the current government and which the current government is trying to present - what the current Minister presented as a tombstone - as solutions to salvation and to justify to Greek farmers that they are not taxed on their income, that insurance contributions have not increased, that the New Democracy is unfairly protesting and highlighting this pitiful situation, in which the rural world has come to light. So even what is said, that farmers' tax-free income is at EUR 8,500, if it is true when a professional farmer, with a house and a car as a living evidence, raises the taxable income at EUR 9,000 and will be taxed, when insurance contributions are tripled? The amount of EUR 1,100 should be paid to a third party in semester, 2.200 per year. If he wants to insure the woman and the child, he'll pay 6,500 euros for insurance contributions only. We have increased VAT to 24% from 13% and, indeed, with the discreet treatment of domestic production, when imported meat is taxed by third countries with 13% VAT and 24% domestically. The same happens in feed. VAT is 24% on domestic feedingstuffs and 13% on third countries. So we're driving agricultural production outside the country's borders. At the same time, with regard to the product of the country, the feta, the current Minister again criticised the then Minister, Mr Mitarakis and Mr Hatzidakis, that the forthcoming agreement with Canada is an exterior blow, as I read in the minutes of the current question, which we discussed here in Parliament, if that agreement was voted on. The current government has signed two corresponding agreements, one with Canada and one with South Africa, which give the name of feta in Canada and South Africa, without the Commission having a written commitment to change to five years. That is what the President-in-Office tells us today is an explicit commitment, but there is no such commitment in the written text. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These, unfortunately, prove to be - half a minute, Mr President - the inconsistency of the words and actions, the hypocrisy and cowardice in many cases also defend their own commitments, but also national interests in the European institutions, but in any case they are brutally affecting agricultural income and the prospects of Greek agriculture, as well as in the notorious Plan for Productive Reconstruction, which we have never seen for two three years since the current government, is not being implemented either by the Rural Development Programme. So they expect 5.5 billion euros, scheduled by the previous government, the Minister of State, Mr Karasmani, when the New Democracy then deposited the programme in July 2014. Even now, two years later, there has been no 1 euro payment from any measure of the development of these programmes. Who is responsible for two years when all these procedures have not been handled? Finally, Mr President, we are making this appeal and the request, as you would like, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the Government and the Ministers responsible for discussion in the respective committees be brought to the attention of the relevant committees to the question of the setting up of the country's production reconstruction plan. There we are ready to table concrete, quantified proposals to compose our forces in this difficult period, so that we can also give a pleasant picture to Greek citizens, but also a substantial hope of getting out of the crisis, through a project in which we will all agree and have a medium-term power in this country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, because my dear colleague has been personally mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Apostle, would you like to speak or answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u37	I need three minutes to give me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u38	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u39	Mr Kasapidis said that before the referendum I, with a press release, described what the European Commission was calling for as a tombstone for the rural area and mentioned as a typical example the tax which was 13% before and which the European Commission would ask for 26%. Mr Colleagues, this government has negotiated, with the Greek people's 'no' as a powerful weapon. Do you know what he's done to this part? It has for the first time succeeded in introducing duty-free in business, such as agriculture. There was never again in our country. Do you know how much? Eight thousand six hundred euros, which if we mention it in an average family, exceeds EUR 9,500. Where did you get that 26%? Do you know who our tax is addressed to? 95% of Greek farmers claiming an income below 9000 euros. So why are you constantly lying? Secondly, you referred to the issue of the agreement with Canada and South Africa, which was known as the agreement, mainly from our point of view, relating to feta. I have told you myself that you have denounced what the New Democracy Government has agreed - and I do not need to repeat it to you - at the European Union summit in Ottawa, Canada. The then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, the President of the Commission, Mr Barozo and the Canadian Prime Minister, concluded an agreement which he did? It enabled Canada to use the term "feta" after the transitional period. There is always a transitional period in all agreements. What did we do? We have succeeded and there is a commitment within the text of the agreement - a declaration by the European Commission that within the five-year transitional period a review procedure will be completed, which will have as its final outcome the full guarantee of the protection of feta, that is, after five years there will not be the term 'feta' in cheeses from Canada and South Africa. So why do you continue to lie about things at least ocular and things that the European Commission has accepted? As far as the part you refer to productive reconstruction in the strategy is concerned, we will have a debate on Wednesday and there we will show you that we have a strategy, which we have submitted to the European Commission, we have taken the ok and we have even invested in what we are trying to do. Finally, do you not see in today's publications that our country is responsible for managing Community aid, for absorbing resources, if not first, from the first countries of the European Union? Well, to God!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u40	Where did you get that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. He has the floor for SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kasapidis, please. There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u44	He called me a liar, Mr. President. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u45	I'll give you the floor for a minute, after Mr. Barkas. Here you go, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, while listening to the speeches of the members of the opposition who are critical, I am reminded of the words 'I don't know, I read'. They are renounced the responsibilities of previous governments, in which they themselves participated, as if the parliamentary history of our country began in January 2015. Here's how they think about the Greek people. They say "freezes" yesterday's announcement of the Prime Minister. They think the Greek people are indigenous and tell us to apologize. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA took the historic responsibility for getting Greece out of the crisis with society upright, without hesitating at all times. This is because SYRIZA expresses the social forces, which have been hit by the neoliberal neck in recent years and not the interests of inter-state businessmen and those on the Lagard and Boryans lists. In this context, at the heart of our policy is the reconstruction of the social state, which had been targeted by the forces of the old political system to serve private interests. We, instead, have a different philosophy, both through planning and hard work, we gradually build a strong social state for all, despite the suffocating budgetary conditions in the country. That's nothing general and vague. It shall be reflected in the 2017 budget. In particular, in this budget, the SYRIZA social programme to protect and support the unemployed, low incomes and the weak, has an important place. We will continue to implement measures and actions to alleviate the socially weak. Health, education and social protection make up the pillars for the reconstruction of the social state and I would like at this point to extend my thinking. As far as education is concerned, with the new 2017 budget despite the serious financial problems of the country, there is an increase in the costs of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs for education. In particular, there is provision for an increase in expenditure in relation to the 2016 budget by EUR 257 million. Thus, the government continues its policy of starting with the 2016 budget, which has put a brake on the continuous, previous years, reductions in expenditure on education. This proves, if we compare the 2017 budget of the current government, with the expenditure that the Government of New Democracy and PASOK had decided to make in 2017, through the mid-term of 2015-2018 that they had voted with Law 4263/2014. Comparing these costs, we find that, with the 2017 budget, the Ministry's expenditure is increasing by EUR 691 million. In other words, from the 2.15% of the Ministry of Education's expenditure on GDP decided by the previous government in 2017 in the medium-term 2015-2018, this budget is set at 2.85% of GDP. This comparison is catalytic in order to make everyone aware of what would happen to education if the political change of January 2015 had not taken place before. With regard to social protection, the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity has done a very good preparation for 2017, culminating in social solidarity income. I would like to point out that, in January 2017, the social income of solidarity will be applied to at least 700,000 of our fellow citizens. This is a triple model of aid, firstly income, secondly, interconnecting services to the beneficiaries such as free medical care, participation in social poverty structures, participation in the TEVA programme, child subsidies at nurseries, school meals, etc. Thirdly, connection to the labour market. 10% of the unemployed beneficiaries of social solidarity income will enter the labour market with OAED programmes and pilot projects on our Ministry's employment portfolio. With regard to health, the effort continues to support and upgrade public care and in 2016, there was little progress. Access of 2.5 million uninsured citizens to the public health system, abolition of the five euro ticket to hospitals, recruitment of permanent staff, reorganisation of EEAS, digitisation of millions of pages with prescriptions for testing pharmaceutical expenses, registration of the expulsion of contractors from the public health system for reasons of public interest, savings of resources and protection of workers, investigation of scandals such as CEDEFOP. In addition, within 2017 an important section will be the reform of primary health care, which will help upgrade public care. At this point I would like to stress that all of the above government's social actions are indicative and reflect the social, class and progressive mark of our policy. All of these are the first steps in our efforts to improve social protection infrastructure. The regulation of our country's debt will leave even more room for strengthening the social state and that is also no accident, nor has it arisen as a divine gift. It was the result of a hard and long-term effort by the government at all the European institutions and at the summits. However, strengthening the social budget does not agree with the New Democracy, because its positions are identical to the views of the International Monetary Fund for wage and pension cuts, for the dissolution of the social state. After all, this recipe has been applied faithfully, with religious reverence from 2012 to 2014. You should stop by lying and slandering to pervert reality. The institutional role of counter-population requires that it contribute responsibly and with arguments in the national effort to get the country out of the crisis, not undermine the government's effort and wish that the country breaks into the rocks of austerity. This government is struggling to get the country out of the crisis with society upright, fighting for social justice, solidarity, democracy and transparency, fighting and defending the rights and interests of those who have lost in recent years from the attack of neoliberalism in our country. In conclusion, I would say that our will for a new social state is reflected in the 2017 budget. Its implementation is a bet that the government has to win and it is certain that it will win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u47	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty students and students and four teachers from the 3rd Larisa High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kasapidis, you have the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u49	But don't open a conversation. Rehabilitate what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u50	Oh, no. I will respond to the insults of the Minister with evidence. The Minister said that we are the first country to absorb funds. We all know that two years after the SYRIZA's government took on the only measure that runs from the Rural Development Programme is young farmers and the deadline has not yet been closed. Extension was granted until the end of the year. So no euro has been paid out of EUR 5.5 billion. How are we first? We're last, Minister. Secondly, the Minister said that I am lying about overtaxing agricultural income. Minister, you, the ones who exorcised and called them "tombstone measures" gave yourself the characterisation of the moratorium of Greek agriculture, because you treated farmers' taxation as that of free professionals with the 22%, 27%, 29%, 37%, 45%, depending on income, so what you're saying is not the case. In fact, if the value of the evidence is higher than the taxable income, the difference is taxed by these rates. And thirdly, as far as feta is concerned, I remain firm in my view that it was modest to give the name of feta to Canada - and then I said it now. You then called it an exterminating blow and signed two agreements, Minister. I'm not taking any responsibility for you. I'm just telling you that you've been cowardly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u51	Please, Mr. Kasapidis, you have given your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u52	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u53	Please, no dialogue. You said your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u54	To present us to the committee on Wednesday the written text of the final agreement containing this written commitment by the committee that the agreement will be changed within five years. Otherwise, the Minister is lying. And for the truth, I submit in the Minutes all these evidence that proves what I'm claiming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u56	Minister, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u57	I should like to thank the rapporteur for his support for this report and also for the support he has given to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and to thank the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development for their support for this report. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u58	That's why I disagreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u59	Please, Mr. Kasapidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u60	The Greek people also know how to address today's chairman of the Trade Committee, Mrs Marston. You ask her why she says that this agreement was concluded then and that the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u61	Who signed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u62	I shall therefore bring you the statement, the commitment - there are these and they have been released.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u63	Get us the signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u64	Of course, there are signatures where a revision of the agreement will take place in the course of the five-year period towards full protection of feta. That's what we do. Secondly, why do you constantly invoke 5% of farmers, who have high incomes and who will be taxed on what concerns all other Greeks, and you do not say about 95% of farmers? They're the ones we're fighting for. They won't pay a tax, not a single euro. Why don't you put that in your mouth when the day before yesterday paid 13%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u65	Who signed it? You're making fun of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u66	It's not like that, George. You're either ignorant or deliberately falsifying them. They are covered by income and subsidies, and that is what we both had in 2016 and 2017. I'm sorry you put that on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u67	Mrs Kollia, State Secretary for the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an old sin, feta and let us not forget what we were talking about years ago! It's an old sin, feta. Not all of this government is being loaded up, as you wish. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still discussing a difficult budget these days. However, I believe that this 2017 budget is the first truly hopeful since the beginning of the Memorandum of Understanding in 2010. The subject of such a debate, of course, is a tour in the book, in the realm of numbers and statistics. But let me put forward and describe what actually means to the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not called upon to serve the numbers, we are not called upon to put aside anything else to achieve the prosperity of the numbers. This is all the more true when we talk about a country's budget, which for seven years has been delivered to the vortex of monuments, austerity and tolerance. The current government with its second budget reorientates the targeting process and highlights the real dimensions and the real objective it seeks to achieve, and it is not the liberation of our country, the well-being of our people, our national sovereignty. The figures for us, ladies and gentlemen, are tools and not the target, are the conditions that facilitate not only the unmoved target, but also the deep faith and commitment to serving society, to support the weak, to create the prospect of a fair society where everyone participates in the effort and the benefits, but also inclusive. He's the man of our philosophy. It is the irreplaceable factor, for us, that numbers, economic theories and ideologies should serve. So the 2017 budget, first of all, implements in the budgetary field, which together - and do not forget, as you do - by a vast majority in the summer of 2015, we voted, adding a equally strong parallel axis of political decisions and actions that support society, embrace the most economically weak, while at the same time opening up the prospect of exploiting the valuable and unexploited capacities and advantages of our compatriots. Here I would like to stress, without cheap opposition and controversy - you know that this does not characterise me - that exactly these guidelines are our great difference with what you in the opposition have chosen to implement since 2010 and for six consecutive years. You left society behind, you set people aside, you silently accepted and publicly, then defended the most extreme and cruel choices that others with your absence, with your own inability to claim and negotiate, imposed on our country. We received, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of January 2015, a country and a society that dragged it into social bankruptcy and social drama. It is a question of honesty and I wonder how you are trying, today, to convince us that it was not your responsibility, that you were never until 2015. You have been and co-government and co-decided and served all you have been asked, in return only, to remain in power of the country, regardless of whether you would condemn it to poverty and malnutrition. That is what we received, and if you want an example extremely timely, is the primary surplus rate, which you agreed to in 2013. I turn to the Civic Opposition and Mr Mitsotakis and ask him to explain to me when he served and what contract of truth. When he was Minister and was signing and implementing the surpluses of 4.5% or now in the opposition that you very easily request surpluses at 2.5% per year? The contracts of truth, Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis, are not windmarks that turn according to the wind of interests. In fact, since we are talking about truths, can you describe your initiatives and actions, your possible presence so far in supporting our country's demands, debt relief, reduction of primary surpluses, participation in the quantitative relaxation programme? I'll tell you the truth. I'm not asking you to support the government. I ask you to support Greece and the Greeks. Whatever I mentioned you about what you have not done so far, please and honestly and truly do so here and now at least. For real all the time. Do you support, or not, the provision of full insurance cover to the uninsured and unemployed? Do you support, yes or no, the social income of solidarity, the collective agreements? Do you support, or not, the increase in public health and national education expenditure? Do you support, or not, the fair payment of taxes by stopping the protection offered to your team of privileged friends to politically support you? Do you support, or not, the use of the public property that HIAD would then sell it out as planned? Do you support, or not, the growth of jobs and not redundancies? This is the truth contract that we are not propagandaing, but we are implementing it. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes, please. I am not speaking very often in this House, and I would also like to see colleagues to be intolerable. So that's what we're doing. For the real implementation of a contract of truth, I will bring you a concrete example from the Ministry to which I am headed. In Macedonia - Thrace, ladies and gentlemen, it has already accepted in less than two months since the launch of the new development law, the new development programme, private investment projects for 180 million and at an increasing rate. This is due to the new philosophy of development law, to the new political targeting and, of course, to the NSRP funds, which prioritises the region, to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This is how we achieve the spread of capital across Greece and not a few good ones. I would even invite you, Mr President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, to inform you personally of the great effort we are making in Northern Greece. I would also invite you to come and see with your own eyes how important it is for Macedonia and Thrace with the regular presence of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, bringing Macedonia and Thrace closer together with the decision-making center that is Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to point out the following, which I believe can also interpret the political choices of the two parties that have prevailed. You are afraid, ladies and gentlemen, of the idea that we have proved that we can coexist with SYRIZA and ANEL by doing national consensus for the country and not for the chairs. You're scared because we prove there's another way out of austerity, silence and yes to everything. But you are more afraid of why the Greeks have put you in opposition for many years. The gold spoons of power and public money are over. The cover-up of the ‘letters’ is over. This is our political reality, ladies and gentlemen. With this budget, we do not present heaven to you. With this budget, however, we show you that you need to see the way and the way that leads to the release from the memoranda, the welfare of the Greek people, our national sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u69	The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor, Mr. Vassilios Economou, for seven minutes. Please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u70	Because I have listened to my fellow Member before, who knows that I appreciate and like her, saying 'if you support the increase in public health expenditure' - I say, for example, because I caught it now at the end of my ear - and that this will be a contract with the truth, I do not know if you have opened the budget that Mr Tsakalots has brought here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u71	This is the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u72	I'm talking about your next door, you're on the same team. I don't know if he's opened the budget, Mr. Chakaloto. But reading on page 74 that last year was EUR 4.350.000, and this year is EUR 4.20,000,000, i.e. that EUR 150,000, 000 down, Mr. Kollia, you will be voting, if you have read the budget in a few hours. Is this a contract with the truth or a divorce with the truth you've received and even a final one? Why, be careful to see, it is said by your other colleagues here - I hear you in the panels - that is, it says, EUR 183 million on health. I read page 74 of what you brought, brought by Chakalotos. He says Mr. Xanthos: 300m euros more the grant to hospitals this year. I'm saying that the kid is doing well, I wish, to say a good reason! I go to page 111 and see 1.5 billion euros last year and 1.5 billion euros this year. Where are the EUR 300 million, gentlemen? I'm going to the EPPY again on page 111. I see that from EUR 526 million last year it was EUR 326 million this year. You're cutting 200 million euros from the EEA. You are also cutting more EUR 140 million from the pharmaceutical expenditure on the EEAS and EUR 2.5 billion that was going to EUR 2,270 billion, that is, what the state pays for public health for the medicine in the EEA. Am I right or am I wrong? You know, little lies make the big lie, the terrible lie that you came here with, and with which you became civilized in 2015 and you continue with it. Terrible lies! To listen now to something else, because it is also the good colleague, whom I appreciate and like him, Mr Dritsa, who spoke about yesterday's tragic image of a Prime Minister who came from Israel to get the rabbit out of the hat and to share in the polo - because you consider the world to be the citizens of EUR 600 million. I, too, say EUR 600 million to the low-pensioners now. Mr. Tsakalotos, did you cut out of the money for the EKT 200 million euros last year? Did you cut the appropriations for the EAEC last year EUR 200 million? So I'm going to the 2017 budget, Mr. Theonas, and you're going to vote to cut another EUR 600 million from the EAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u73	Tell us who signed it for the C.E.S.S.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u74	I say, EUR 200 million in 2016 and EUR 600 million in 2017 are making us EUR 800 million in low pensioners, in the CSR, and you are coming here today and saying for EUR 600 million? What's this? Isn't that a political deception? The EUR 1.1 billion you cut off to the subsidiary of whose supplementary pensions did you cut it off last year? The rich? The pension cuts were EUR 2.2 billion in 2016 and you have set another EUR 1 billion, Mr Tsakalotos, in 2017 in pension cuts. Within a two-year period of nearly 3.5 billion euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u75	In your government how much have been cut?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u76	Oh, now we're competitioning who cut more? Tell me about you, where you're a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u77	How many billions were those that you cut and you've got that look?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u78	You're a minister. Is that how you justify your cuts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u79	How many billions were those that you cut?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u80	Your cuts, your neoliberal, right, extreme right cuts...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u81	You cut ten and fifteen times more! Aren't you ashamed to have that look?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u82	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u83	You be ashamed of that big deception you're making!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u84	Aren't you ashamed? This look is not justified by you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u85	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u86	You've cut 3.5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u87	This look to cut it when you've cut so many billions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u88	You cut 3.5 billion euros in two years, you give 600 million euros, and you call that a social policy? Is this ever possible to be honest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u89	This look you have to cut when you've cut tens of billions off pensions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u90	Nah, you gonna tell us, and what kind of look are we gonna have?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u91	Yes, I'll tell you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u92	Please stay over there and listen. To listen to the look elsewhere to suggestions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u93	When you left because the memorandum was right, you went to New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u94	Calm down, Mr. Chakaloto!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u95	Please, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u96	He found - because he is a former Minister of Health Mr. Cremastino - your government, Mr. Tsakalotos, four thousand five hundred ready-to-be in the health sector. After two years, I hear the ministers say, three thousand recruitments we made and four thousand are on the way. Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u97	Since 2010, why didn't you do them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u98	Why didn't you, Mr. Economou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u99	Let me tell you, are the OAED programs hiring? Are these appointments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u100	Why didn't you, Mr. Economou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u101	Let me talk. Mr President, protect me. The look is mine and protect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u102	Please, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u103	Is the OAD's programmes hiring? Are the OAED programmes appointing? Since when were the appointments of the OAED to four thousand, what are being done? Since when? So you're adopting them for five months? Is that how you're gonna fill the health gaps? The Triumph, the Gennamas? The State of Nice, which is 50% subordinated, will you cover it with OAS programmes? And you have the nerve, and you claim that and you go to the panels and interviews and you say "four thousand appointments"? The OAED programs? Three thousand cover?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u104	The nerve characterizes you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u105	Can I tell you something else? You're shouting and you've appointed some people who have to be very careful from now on because they're prosecuting - I see and learn - in hospitals, executives and worthy scientists. These commanders you appointed are calling...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u106	Persecutors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u107	We'll see about the persecutions. The tricks are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u108	Persecutors? Where are we? In times when we used to be, what did your prosecution do? It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, you're kicking out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u110	Execution of contractors you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u111	Listen to me. I say the other one. They call the chequiriti and the cleaners and the bankers and make individual contracts. Tell me, gentlemen, the Left and the Progress...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u112	You're a contractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u113	We'll see about this. Tell me, gentlemen of the Left and of progress, you are affected by the business contracts that the neoliberal wing will do and you want the branches. At the same time, would you sign individual contracts at hospitals and health centers? Aren't you ashamed? And that's left-wing politics, individual contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u114	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u115	And to tell you, if they do one, two renewals, Mr. Colleague, will they be appointed permanently? Forty, fifty thousand assignments from the back door, while six and a half thousand doctors are gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u116	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u117	To you, shame, because at the same time you're in the panels and you say "I don't have doctors and nurses". What are you gonna get? Are you going to take the cleaners and the securiti you've got on individual contracts? The biggest holding you're making. Aren't you gonna put on doctors and nurses? Six thousand doctors and fifteen thousand nurses are missing. Do you know how many surnames and cleaners you put in the back door?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u118	The contractors are interested in you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u119	Fifty thousand! You're going to simulate them? You think they're your voters ready and you got them locked up through individual contracts? That won't pass, I'm telling you. Look out, these won't pass. At the same time as giving 600,000,000 euros from the primary surplus, EOPY owes 1,800,000 euros to providers and 900,000 euros to hospitals. So, 2,700,000 euros, you haven't paid them. After you have a primary surplus, give the hospitals and the EOPY to pay the market, not to close the business, not to leave the world unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u120	Since when do you have to give? You're not telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u121	What kind of hypocrisy is it that you're sitting there talking about 600,000,000 euros surplus? And you have 2,700,000 euros only in health. They're debts you don't pay. It's a terrible thing to do. It's terrible, but you can't understand that it's terrible, because you don't think you'll find clients of voters from the market, business and the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u122	We don't have customers, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u123	Others say suppliers, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u124	I don't think you'll find it. You think you'll find the voters all the public and the pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u125	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u126	Others taught customers, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u127	He's throwing the bird out of there, too. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Theonas, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u129	I'm unpleasant. What am I supposed to do? But I'm going under the budget. I'm not going on the basis of a propaganda. I'm going under the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Economou, please complete. So because the budget brought by the Tsipras Government is the one I have just mentioned, not only do we not vote for it, but we will be opposed and perverse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u132	You have the floor for two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u133	I'm not going to comment on everything Mr. Economou said. I would just like to refer to three elements and help others, not only Mr Economou, so that they can read the budget better. For health in relation to what he said, the EUR 300 million for education and health is not included. Read page 58.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u134	I talked about health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u135	For EVKA and the increase you did not read page 111. For hospitals you have not read the increase that is 200m euros, on page 112. Read these and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u136	I have them here, Mr. Chakaloto. Should I testify again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u137	I understand, Mr. Economou, your anger, because if I had left PASOK in the first memorandum, because it was right, and I had gone to DMAR and ended up in New Democracy to say with Mr. Mitsotakis "we will reduce taxes" so that we do not have hospitals and education in the future, I would have the same anger. My congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u139	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u140	We're not having a dialogue, Mr. Economou. He didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u142	Read page 58.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u143	Are you asking for the floor on personal grounds, Mr. Economou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u144	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u145	There's no staff. He is not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u146	What's the staff? The Rules of Procedure, Mr Economou, refer to what the staff are composed of. I'll give you the floor, on personal grounds, after Mrs. Anagnostopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, can you give me the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u148	I'll give it to you after Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. You cannot arrange for the parliamentary procedure. Mrs. Anagnastopoulou will speak, and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u149	Can I say something, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u150	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u151	I suggest you give him one day to read the budget and then return for the staff. Because he obviously hasn't read him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u152	I'll give tests, but not to you, Mr. Chakaloto!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Something that I admire very much to the Congressmans and not just the Officer, is cynicism and courage. The many years of power, the many decades of power, give cynicism and courage to people, and somehow this must be brought together. I've never learned to talk to high tones. I have learned, in other words, but I think society no longer needs these crowns that are trying to show other things. I shall speak calmly to counter what has been said - some of the points, of course - in another way and I shall be unequivocal. What separates us from the neoliberal party is that we, despite the pressures, do not give up the vision of an organised force that is acting for the benefit of society to defend social cohesion. Let us pay attention to this wording'social cohesion'. What really hurts very much, if I may express, Acoustic Opposition, but also neoliberal forces in general, is that social cohesion must be defendable by the political forces. Neoliberalism in Europe considered that we are ending these visions and that they are unrealistic and unrelenting now. The Prime Minister's dilemma, which appears to have caused a great problem in Civicism, and not just, proves it. And as long as you are trying to blame for regularism, populism, for a thousand two, one is certain: The redistribution of the surplus of 2016 to the weakest on the one hand, to pensioners, that is, to the most pressed regions of the country on the other, to the islands that lift up the refugee, demonstrates this precisely, to strengthen social cohesion where their limits are tested, where there is a risk of marginalisation of the weak, those who cannot have a strong voice or where there is a risk of rising the extreme right phenomena. This left-wing government, of course, did not succeed in overthrowing neoliberalism in Europe. It is, however, trying to create resistance slots where reproduction of social cohesion is being tested. It is no accident, therefore, that education, health and social policy is also banned in the pillars of social cohesion, because these are the pillars. This is the 'parallel program' and let's shout as much as you want us to be lying. This "speaking" implys one thing. It's what neoliberal forces always do. He's implying that the people are wrong. 'You are wrong to vote on them'. The people are controlled, not us. That's the problem. You are trying to show whatever power it is to defend social cohesion as a populist force and through it you control the people. This is therefore the government's 'parallel programme'. I'm just going to talk about education because I don't have time for the rest. As the budget shows, there is a small, but important increase in expenditure in the light of social cohesion by 2.85%. I just want to remind you that if the political change had not taken place in 2015, we would now have, for 2017 - this had been voted on in the medium term in 2014-2,15%. Do you know what this means to education? It means too much and you know it. What inspired us and inspired us and we try to implement it every time, however difficult, is at least 15% for the education of the '1-1-4' generation. It is not an idealism on our part, but ideological references that every political force has and that incorporate it into different historical political plans. The ideological achievements of the New Democracy incorporate it into the historic capitalist project, this project, which society must keep in mind, in order to avoid the trap of destructiveness that the opposition is moving to good cooperation, of course, with the systemic media. One thing is certain, and we heard it. I have listened with interest to the speakers and to the Officerial Response, both the River and the PASOK. What has been based on neoliberalism in recent years - the worst, that is, capitalist model we have had and is the Thaceri model - is the dimension between social cohesion and economic development on the other hand. It's like we have two enemy fronts that on one side fights one another on the other. I have heard Mrs Bakoyannis say, 'Let us at last support those who produce', leaving out, of course, the many, the weak, that is, what social cohesion says, 'the whole society and the few together'. This must go away, that is, what the New Democracy and the Thaceri model say, "the perfect ones above all, the others in Kaidas. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] If I may, Mr President, I would like to give just a few details, particularly as regards education, to say that public and free education for all citizens - not voucher, it is not up to family and local communities, as Mr Mitsotakis has said - it is a matter of state, the responsibility of the state. So to have public and free education for all citizens and for those who live here and for those who live here - that is, for refugees - it means that the state itself offers the weapons so that we can have this. It does not leave it either in institutions or in schools on its own. On whether recruitment was carried out, I will give you a small example. Thousands of fifty ICPs were recruited at universities and at TEIs, twenty thousand in three years' depth scholarships to young scientists and many others to administrative staff, etc. Value doesn't have the number, it doesn't have the quantity. Value has one thing: trying to block the neoliberal design. What was that? Those who could have taken contractors - what you are now shouting that we have cut black, flexible work. Now the state comes and says, "Stop, I have a responsibility to make the planning." And that's what he did. Just two words - because I took a long time - for the famous reforms you are talking about. In fact, the Chief of Officership is also a admirer of Mr. François Fillon, who promised that as soon as he takes over, he will cut five hundred thousand positions. Your problem - and this is what I described before, social cohesion and economic production - what is it? That the public sector is the drone. What have you done, as we have seen from the government of the country now? Inside the public, private specialists, who have undertaken to do the reforms, which they consider should be done, and that is where huge public money is being wasted. I could bring you examples of how we saved money, how we secured public money, because for you the public money - this culture you cultivated - was free money. Instead of handling the society for free, the free made customer relationships. We've seen it in a lot of cases. I would just say to you, in short, that from the relocations that would take over an entity, we saved some hundreds of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u155	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President. The same happened with a thousand two others. I'm done saying one thing. Because Europe is also in the situation of our region, capitalism - especially in its tough version - has never deposited anything in the funds of democracy. We have to keep that in mind, because all the signs are here. If we don't pay attention, we're at a limit point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u158	The next speaker is Mrs Antoniou. But be patient, Mrs. Antoniou, because I found, as my legacy, by the previous President-in-Office...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u159	You found it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u160	You found it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u161	No, he took it from me. Why, Mr. Treasury, instantly comment? Didn't I get it? I don't understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u162	Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u163	I am upset, because you are remarkably commenting on what the Bureau has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u164	If you're kind, you're badly upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u165	Sit down, please. I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u166	Listen to me, don't address me like that. You're irritating yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u167	Why? Is it because you are ironic about what the Bureau has said? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u168	You're wrong. If you don't understand jokes, this is about your intelligence. Don't address me like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u169	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u170	It was unacceptable to behave. And this seat is not for use.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u171	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u172	What expressions are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u173	But do you hear him? Are we serious? He got caught all of a sudden...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Economou has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I was waiting for the staff that Mr Chakalotos has spoken about, that he will have something serious, substantial to say, and that he will correct me if I have made my mistake and re-enter my examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u176	Three mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u177	Three mistakes, Minister. So I'm on page 112. What did I say the delusion? I said that the state grant to hospitals is stagnant, you have not given a single euro over and you go to the panels and you give EUR 300 million more money to hospitals. You told me to go to page 112. Here it is. I believe you have read the budget you have tabled, Mr Chakalote. You understand what you've written. I'm on page 112.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u178	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u179	Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u180	Read what he says at the expense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u181	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u182	Have I been wrong? For 2012, then, I said that it is 1.493 billion and it is 1.5 billion. I punished you for 7 million. I've been wrong, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u183	Read what he says about expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u184	Let go! I said state grant. I know what I'm saying. I didn't tell you about expenses, sir. I told you about a state grant. So the state gives nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u185	Look at the expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u186	Let me talk. I left you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u187	Minister, be patient. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u188	Costs, Mr. Chakalote, where are you going to pay them? The due date you're creating, where are you going to pay for it? You mixed up education and health and took me to page 58. I told you about health. So if he goes to page 74, your partner will see that he's minus 159 million. Did I lie? Did I make a mistake? Do you have to go back to England for exams and do you have to rejoin your shreddedness? Do you have the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u189	Uh, now, Mr. Economou, you're not helping. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u190	Listen to me. I may have a little intense indeed and be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u191	Just?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u192	All right, guys, don't hurt yourself with the look so much! I may have a little intense look, but be careful: All the years here in the Chamber I have never personally spoken of anyone. I've had a lot of their course and their file, but I haven't spoken. I could say a lot about Chakalotus for his personal things. Why does he say about me? I will be judged, just like all of us. Is it conduct and moral, whenever you're politically cornered, to take it to staff like some ladies? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please answer what I put on you and leave the rest. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u194	As you have not responded to any of the points, you do not know how to read the budget. You don't know. I've told you that health costs are not just in the Ministry of Health, but they are elsewhere. Our partners are available to teach you two hours this afternoon, tomorrow morning, tomorrow night, so you can understand them better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u195	Good, Minister. Mrs. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u198	If it's those results, we'll miss them. If the two-hour courses have these results, we'll miss them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u199	Now, Mrs. Antoniou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u200	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u201	I gave the floor to Mrs Antoniou, Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u202	I, Mr President, have not talked about public health expenditure, which is EUR 10 450 000, which is a medicine, an EOPY and a PEDY. I didn't talk about it. I talked about the Ministry of Health. That's what I said, the burner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u203	Will you pay more to the world for health, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, will you start over time, because we have lost a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u206	Start, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second budget for SYRIZA - ANEL - it is a typical left budget that I must recognise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, Mr Economou must take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u209	On the one hand, he's full of unrealistic predictions. The government's expectations, you say, of increasing growth of 2.7%, private consumption of 1.8% and investment of 9.1%. Well done, Minister! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Will you please impose peace, Mr President? This thing can't be heard all the time! If people don't want to hear what I'm saying to them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u210	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u211	The forecasts are not just over-optimistic, as Parliament's Budget Office says, but they are beyond all logic. In an already exterminated, ladies and gentlemen, tax society, with a year - 2016 - in which we had an increase in tax revenue, but mainly under threat of auctioning and seizures. Those who would not be with you and we are still waiting for this legislation on the lifting of auctions. The Prime Minister announced it. Did you see her anywhere? You didn't see her. At the same time, secondly, with a vertical increase in outstanding public debts, do you believe in the truth, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, that these objectives can be achieved? The 2016 figures I mentioned above show that rather the country is being forced into bankruptcy and society in uprising, despite the fact that the economy will get a positive turn. However, I should like to respond to this point in Mr Fotakis' position yesterday on the increase, he says, in the budget for research. I imagine he referred to the loan he's taken. He's got a 180 million euro loan. But he has not told us about the EUR 1.2 billion we have from the ESRB for research if he has absorbed even a euro, ladies and gentlemen. Two years have you absorbed a euro? Let the Minister answer us. Have you absorbed a euro of 1.2 billion for research? Your inability is now becoming a mockery. At the same time, of course, the government, in order not to forget how left it is, brings new burdens, with direct and indirect taxes, which exceed 2.6 billion. And that's the bitter truth, that's the only thing for sure in the budget. For example: EUR 437 million due to VAT increase, EUR 422 million to indirect taxes on heating oil and fuels, EUR 89 million from the additional fees on pay-TV and mobile phones, EUR 62 million from the increase in beer tax, EUR 62 million from the increase in coffee tax, EUR 142 million from the increase in cigarette tax. And the list isn't over. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're not listening, ladies and gentlemen. You'll vote for them. However, let me turn to one of them more extensively. I am referring to increases in taxation on fuel. I represent, like Mr. Beyalas, a region in Macedonia, Kastoria, with heavy winter. You know that, Mr. Comrade. Governing the country from New Democracy, with the highest international prices of crude oil, lower prices in heating oil than in today's and heating allowance almost all residents -35 minutes, 200 million - I listened to you spill crocodile tears for the people I froze. You were actually asking for our head on a board. Today, with much lower international oil prices, the price of heating oil has risen sharply and the heating allowance is ignored. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, especially of Northern Greece, that cold is left and does not freeze the world or the heat of the chair of power has made you more Malthus? Whatever happens, we must now, immediately - and it is an opportunity now that the Minister of Finance is here - to open up the application of the heating allowance and, above all, to take all the necessary measures - to listen, Mr Papadimitriou - in order to avoid a very large increase in fuel prices. You do not seem to be concerned about this, since the trick it took to hide - at least trying - what you will need to vote, was invented by the government yesterday by the Prime Minister's letter. And it is no more than a so-called return to low-pension workers of EUR 600 million from the bloody surplus of overtaxation and public debts that have never been attributed to the beneficiaries. In other words, to them, you are always cutting them off the ESS and you are about to cut them off another pension in 2017, give them a hand for once. You do well if you think that's how you get your vote and you buy theirs. This aid, the Prime Minister, dared to call a "three-third pension". To prepare us for what comes into the pensions with the fourth memorandum that is ready to settle with the lenders? Mavroyaluro now in new adventures in Santa's role. At least the original had an emoluments, and when he saw what he did, he quit. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time the debate on the 2017 budget is taking place at the time when the Maximos Mansion is trying to manage the Eurogroup shipwreck on 5 December. The Greek authorities are committed to agreeing with the institutions on a mechanism and structural measures that will ensure the surplus of 3.5% of GDP in 2018, but also in the medium term, the Eurogroup's decision says. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] You will give me the time we have wasted at first, Mr President. He approved short-term debt measures, but left for 2018 the decisions on medium-term measures and surpluses. It is a decision that, as the government representative has said, debt measures will have no direct impact on the daily lives of the citizen, a decision that refers to a 20% reduction in debt in 2060, nor, of course, as we wanted, in the way we wanted. This is a decision that binds the next generations and certainly leads to new, tough measures and new memoranda and which leads the Prime Minister to put the tie to naphthalene, which he would allegedly put when the debt issue was resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u212	The man doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u213	That is how he said, ladies and gentlemen, that if he solved the debt issue, he would put the tie on. It's probably in Naphthalene. I'm on it. This is a decision which, at the same time, brings new painful measures, which the government is now trying to scorn, but which, of course, if you remain in power and you will bring them and you will vote on. You are determined to do everything for authority. You sold out everything you said, everything you believed, just to enjoy the privileges of power, so that you can actually appoint the armies of your party friends. You've proved that you don't care about anything else. You live in a world of yours, a company of yours. And you cannot talk about social policy when, with official figures from the Bank of Greece, the Greek people are even poorer. Your central policies are not about the good of the country, but about the good of your company. What we do not know is what commitments you have made behind your backstage towards lenders. Because, although it is a common place that the SYRIZA Government is one of the worst governments that have ever passed, it has unlimited support for lenders. These, ladies and gentlemen, who swear on others as germans, are the followers of 'no', who today say 'yes' to everything, even to those who are not asking for you. For this reason, it is imperative today, more than ever, that the country should be led to elections, not only to change government, but to change course, to become a normal country again. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, will not be avoided either sooner or later. I hope it's too fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Syragos, I have the honour of announcing this House. No. No. Protocol 18949/13029 from 9 December 2016 Decision of the President of the Parliament: “Recommendation and establishment of the Standing Committees of National Defence and Foreign Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Production and Trade”. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[The relevant decision of the President of Parliament, which reads as follows:]] Changing p. [[To enter the 137-141 pages.]] Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u215	Mr Syrgyrgos has the floor from SYRIZA, which concludes the tenth circle of speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u216	It's not as much as you see, it's what I'm going to say. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than five years now, thousands of debates have been taking place - debt, lending, memoranda, measures and our poor destiny. What created all this? What causes all these conversations? The answer will be found if someone returns to 2010 and sees the bad decisions made. His wrong policies before and the wrong decisions of 2010 are conditio sine qua non for the later progress of the country and the problems we are so pressingly experiencing. This must not be forgotten or hidden from the debate. That's the operative cause. Now it's history, but it's a central issue in all these conversations. Let me be forgiven, let me be forgiven, it was the answer - I hope in a discreet way - to what has been heard so far by the Opposition, major and minor, about our maliciousness. Ladies and gentlemen, four key elements help us to detect the credibility of a budget, in my assessment, an assessment that does not belong to an economist, that is, a specialist, but a legal one, that is, a non-specific one, but that, as its basis, has the logic and reality, without overlooking that this reality, as has been shaped many times, transcends the elme and aggregates a lot of excesses. I mean the reality that is contradictory, the reality that is shaped by false economic recipes and requirements of third parties, the reality that involves problems decisively such as wars, international instability, population movements and others, the reality that many of its constants once defined. European Union suffering and divided, Brexit, closed countries and so on. But I return to the four identifiable elements of the budget that we are discussing. First, does it take into account the environment, economic and other, international and internal? Secondly, is the budget heading consistent, that is to say there is a continuity with the previous one in the steps, objectives and objectives? Thirdly, how are these pursuits described and how are they reflected in his text? Finally, what are his pursuits further? And last year's and the current budget - see introductory reports and their body - are on a stable road map aimed at safeguarding budgetary balance and fair sharing of adjustment costs and benefit. It is a difficult balance, which is why the author of last year's and this year's budget does not cut, nor do we make triumfale statements. Our aim is stability and recovery. Our aim is to combat unemployment and to breathe the funds and the market, to reintroduce a step from last year to this year and to bring about the near future of normality in our daily lives. The budget is therefore set at a constant level, but without any commotion. He wrote in his report last year: "The submission of the budget for next year is based on conservative estimates and this is because the start of a virtuous cycle in the economy from the successful outcome of three interconnected procedures which constitute the government's short-term roadmap for final exit is not taken into account entirely." It says this year: “In this context, an objective for 2017 remains the safeguarding of the fiscal balance in order to complete the recovery of the country’s credibility in the conduct of economic policy.” "The government's economic strategy remains stable and revolves around two axes: the objectives of the budget, the completion as quickly as possible and successfully as possible of the fiscal adjustment programme to enable Greece to exit and - secondly - the safeguarding and further strengthening of fundamental social and economic rights of citizens. It is a difficult balance.’ Stresses with caution: "The optimistic macroeconomic elements, however, must not cause reassurance." All figures show, therefore, that the answer to the constant continuation of economic policy at budgetary level - not just that - is affirmative. But the answer to the first question is positive, since, as we can see, account is taken both of the exogenous, that is, the international environment and the internal ones that are affecting each other. These objectives of the budget, namely achieving this difficult balance, are demonstrated in the specific chapters on social solidarity and strengthening well-established social classes, health and education. For example, I'm telling you this. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Colom i Naval, for the excellent work he has done. In closing my speech on the budget, I would like to ask for faster steps, despite what has been important in the issues of tax evasion, corruption and other types of economic crime. On this point, of course, I must say that a great deal of steps have been taken, and the years of inactivity must be brought to bear with the ministers and their services which have dealt with them more than the previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, there are the conditions and foundations for prosperous and happy tomorrow, provided that we believe it and fight decisively and persistently. We know the grim reality, but that is not enough. We need to change it. With risky criticisms or election wards or miserable positions - with few exceptions - we are not dealing with reality. In good faith - and I am addressing the opposition - I am firm but also kindly and honestly recognizing the steps that have been taken, slowly but firmly, this debate can have a fertile character. It is clear from this and the step by step that unemployment is falling, that the government in this struggle is going beyond its powers and does not just do what it can. This struggle requires all of them to be taken together. See the questions of the Minister of Finance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A climate of political stability requires the same and this is not helped by the incomplete and incomplete continued invoicing of the request for elections in the absence of another proposal. This is what I claim by invoking the markets that you so much repository. I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by carefully recognizing the budget, he finds out that the government is aware of what it is seeking and in what circumstances. But that is not enough to go ahead. The opposition must also be equally aware of things and the negative attitude everywhere shows the opposite. So, here, let the answers to the Minister of Finance come to the questions he has raised, because we are waiting for proposals. Any criticism without proposals is lacking, vacant content and unperformed. I'm just finishing up with one question. When an event occurs, such as statements and benefits announced by the Prime Minister yesterday, it is clear that all will seek - and the Opposition and the Politics - an explanation of this. But in this way we do not answer a question directly. And the question raised by the Prime Minister yesterday is one: Is there someone who disagrees with this? Is there anyone who disagrees with these benefits? If so, let's say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u217	We will give the floor to the Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou. Four speakers will then take the floor from the list and the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou, will follow. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having on the 2017 budget involves a serious weakness. It focuses on an important but not dominant aspect of it, such as some painful adjustment measures that are more fundamental to increased taxation. However, it ignores the fact that we have the first development budget of general acceptance after an eight-year period. When I say general acceptance, I mean our European partners, who, through the European Commission's mouth, predict that growth in 2017 will be 2.7% with 2016 closing marginally positive. At the same time, we forget that the painful measures which this government is constantly trying to minimize are part of the strategy which most in this Chamber have been accepted by voting for the third Memorandum of stabilisation of the economy. But what is the new budget and what strategy does the government pursue? Firstly, it seeks for 2017 to maintain and strengthen the fiscal equilibrium with at the same time fair sharing of the burden of budgetary adjustment, but also of the economic recovery that it provides for. Secondly, it redefines economic policy by creating budgetary capacities - Physical space - by drastically reducing the primary surplus target to 1.75% in 2017 compared with 4.5% agreed under the previous programme. It therefore reduces the amount of budgetary measures required, releasing space for the gradual recovery of the economy and increasing the credibility of the programme. Thirdly, it also promotes the programme of deprivation and structural reforms in product markets, which are important components in the growth of the economy. With the 2017 budget, the Government seeks fiscal consolidation at this stage of the economic cycle through the tax policy channel, as public expenditure consists mainly of wages, pensions and social protection expenditure, which have a comparatively higher multiplier effect on economic activity than taxes. Business taxation contributes to the necessary fiscal consolidation of the country. Businesses are participating in this joint effort, like other social groups, namely pensioners, employees and those who receive incomes. The level of the tax burden in this economic context of the country will be inversely proportional to the achievement of a financial area. The creation of a financial area, together with the maintenance of a budgetary balance, will allow the gradual reduction of tax rates, which, as we call them 'effective average tax rates', according to the Commission, are in Greece 27.1%, as much as in Portugal, which is 26.6% and lower than in Spain 32.9%, France 38.3% and Germany 28.2%. Ms. Bakoyannis recently referred to a speech I gave to the HR, but unfortunately she relied on fragmentary reports. What I said is that taxation is not a catalyst of the destruction of national competitiveness. The rates of enterprise income in Greece are 29%, in Portugal 29.5%, in Italy 31.4%, in Belgium 34%, in France 34.4% and in Germany 30.2%. I do not think we would consider that these countries are not competitive, since they are asking us to be like them too. Taxation, however, is the final stage of a process, which includes a stable macroeconomic framework and a budgetary balance, the creation of a social protection network for our weakest fellow citizens, opportunities to develop business plans, simplify the start-up procedures of new businesses, improve the institutional framework for business, and in particular strengthen institutions and broaden the financing tools of businesses. The government's strategy for entrepreneurship and growth focuses on improving all previous stages, where all international indicators and surveys show the low position of Greece. In particular, the Greek companies, according to a survey carried out by the European Central Bank every six months on a sample of ten thousand enterprises in the Eurozone, are facing the most unfavourable situation among all the Eurozone countries in terms of financing, not taxation. In particular, they are faced with the highest interest rates on bank loans, most of the rejections of bank lending applications, the lowest amount of loans offered by banks, the lowest rate of loan offered to equity and the highest pledges to grant a loan. Access to finance is the dominant concern of Greek businesses, not taxation. Therefore, research demonstrates the correctness of the government strategy to prioritise the restoration of normal funding and the integration into the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme, which will help to help the banks' liquidity, the gradual reduction of borrowing interest rates, and thirdly, the availability of business finance. At the same time, the fiscal consolidation of the economy and the reduction of government expenditure continues through the reform of public administration. For example, since the implementation of the electronic signature, according to estimates of the AEBE, the state will save 800 million for the period 2017-2018 and combat bureaucracy. Finally, emphasis is placed on facilitating and limiting obstacles to the start-up of businesses, by limiting the cost of setting up a recommendation by 70%, if it is done electronically, and by limiting the licensing period accordingly, up to 97% for enterprises in three main sectors of the economy: tourism, food and drink processing and health. The Government promotes the necessary reforms for the effective and fair management of red loans, the reduction of administrative obstacles, the fairer distribution of tax burdens, the arrest of tax evasion and the maximum possible increase in financial resources and the attraction of investment funds. These reforms are crucial for returning to sustainable and fair growth in the economy. That is why everyone should support them instead of defaming or fighting them. Much more so this year they have begun to deliver development results. In conclusion, I would urge you all to vote in favour of the 2017 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will continue with SYRIZA, Mrs. Venus Theopevettus. Then two Members will speak from the New Democracy. Three parliamentary representatives have already spoken, so we will give the floor after the two Members I announced to the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, then two Members will speak and then Mr Gavroglou will speak. Here you go, Mrs. Theophevettus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that after seven years of constant austerity and recession, we all recognise that no one has the magic wand that will bring the economy back to normality and that exit from the crisis will occur. So it has this budget positive messages, it also has difficulties, since we are still in the midst of a crisis. There are people who are burdened and there are others who are trying to protect themselves, and in this direction was the Prime Minister's letter yesterday, which is reflected in this intention and commitment that the surpluses will be redistributive and go to those who are most affected by the crisis. Our strategy for a year and a half is to protect vulnerable classes, stabilise the economy and lead the country to a normality, so as to come out of the crisis definitively, bearing in mind that until now the occupants paid taxes on a voluntary basis and that a disproportionate burden has been placed on a portion of the middle strands and self-employed. We recognize that, we do not hide it and we do not try to underestimate it. It is really a heavy burden and we gradually reduce it, as the country recovers and rebuilds its economy and production base. While all previous governments pre-electionally considered the problem of tax evasion to be the top, it is the first time that we have tangible and measurable results in the fight to combat it. Therefore, this strategy to help vulnerable strata has been systematically launched last year, where for the first time a series of immediate measures to address the humanitarian crisis have been put in place, starting with 100 million in 2015, 270 this year and 760 are being entered in the 2017 budget, through the implementation of the social income of solidarity. The 2017 budget attempts to maintain the budgetary balance in order to consolidate and fully recover the credibility of our economic policy, which is a prerequisite for exiting the memoranda and the tough comitology. In addition, it seeks not only to maintain stable or increase the level of public investment to support economic growth, where the private economy cannot be active, but also to put economic activity on a new footing in the private sector, strengthening healthy entrepreneurship, against aeronautics that have been plummeting the lion's share for decades. It is characteristic, ladies and gentlemen, that in the previous NSRP 2007-2013 each job cost EUR 90,000 per year. We all know that there were not many workers who were rewarded with such sums. In the current programme, our intention is to share with more beneficiaries this programme, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in young researchers and in the unemployed. The recent Eurogroup decision on short-term debt measures is a major success. With what has been agreed, there is a 22% reduction in GDP debt and 1.5% of interest rates are stabilised, where in many European countries there are forecasts for much higher. And we achieved something that no other government had even claimed on an economic and social level, because if you remember, they were trying to convince us that debt is sustainable. Those who do not see it or underestimate it are wrong not the government, but the effort of our people. It is a decisive step for the exit of the Greek economy from the crisis. The next steps are absolutely specific: integration into the quantitative relaxation program, exit of the country into the markets in 2017 with further relaxation of the capital control, with the aim of definitively lifting them and successfully completing the program in the summer of 2018. Everyone in Europe now recognises it, despite the misery of counter-population here in our country, and it is clear that the country is heading towards growth as we have a positive rate in the second quarter of 2016 - and we expect the same for the third - so that we have a positive overall result. What we need now and what the world is asking for is not just the return to the pre-crisis situation and the reduction of unemployment that has already begun to be recorded, but the overall treatment of the diseases that led to the bankruptcy of the country and the Memorandums and the exemption from the committee that limits democracy and popular sovereignty. Not by sharing money that there are no deficits and debts, not by repeating the previous governance model, but by making Greece finally a country with a strong economy, less unemployment, without tax evasion, corruption and customer relations, with transparent and effective administration. No one celebrates and no one has the right to celebrate because the economy escaped the recession in the two quarters of 2016. We will go even better and this is not only evidenced by the budget, but it is supported by the Bank of Greece, by the report by the Commission, but also by international financial houses which are not all of them SYRIZA. It is interesting to see how the budget for this year is evolving and to respond to the catastrophe of counter-population and many media. They said they'd collapse the revenue and go to new budgetary measures. Really out of reality! Already in the first eleven months, we have exceeded the target of the budget by EUR 2.44 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, in a wider sensitive area, our country is a force of stability and peace and moves towards alliances, extending the hand of friendship and cooperation to neighbouring peoples to consolidate peace, which is also the great demand in our times, in order to consolidate democracy, solidarity and respect for human rights. Working with system and determination will proceed with the 2017 budget, where the country's exit marks will be visible from the deep crisis in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Theopevettus. Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and yesterday I heard from my fellow Members that we voted together in the summer of 2015 on the agreement. Oh, no, ladies and gentlemen! We have voted in favour of the framework for how indicators should be initiated, but also of the necessary economic reforms. The framework gives many opportunities and flexibility, gives a great deal of scope for many options. It is not a road map of how the objectives pursued should be achieved. The Greek people know under what conditions and conditions we have voted for and done our national duty. We didn't vote for the measures. We have not agreed together the mixture of economic policy that you are implementing. And just because of your amateur policy, endless and inefficient negotiations, the disastrous national error of referendum and other manipulations, you managed to show 2015 to the worst year since Postpopulation. After all, this is reflected in both budgets, 2016 and 2017, which you have drawn up. The cost you have borne on the backs of the Greek people is heavy and unsurpassed and measured in tens of billions. I don't have time to analyze it. For example, I will only mention 9 billion of the measures for 2015-2018, of which 6 million were imposed in 2015 and 2016. More importantly, you have promised our national property for nine nine years, turning Greece into a protectorate - pariah. Really, you didn't have the right. You promised not only the present but also the future of the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have placed myself on the Committee on Economic Affairs sufficiently at the main points, namely the ones that reveal the ruthless fiscal philosophy of the 2017 budget. So let me focus today on the rural part, for which the Minister for Rural Development has attempted to present us with an idyllic picture. It was a black year, for farmers in particular, in 2015. One of the same will be the 2016 balance sheet. Why? Firstly, because EU funds of EUR 900 million have been lost from the previous Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013. You see, the Minister had to launch this programme at a speed of light to make even more use of it. However, it preferred to deal with other more serious issues, such as consultation, the catastrophic referendum, the September elections. And really, what did he do after his re-election in October 2015? He simply transferred these EUR 900 million to the new Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, mocking it by 21%, with everything that implies for our development and our national economy. And that's all it was! And since the new EUR 6 billion programme has not been used up until now, even a euro has been depriving our rural world of huge amounts, which are even multiplier in nature to stimulate both our local and national economies. It goes without saying that it has at the same time deprived valuable liquidity from the winter market. At the same time, direct, indirect taxes, contributions, VAT are being increased, while, on the contrary, wages, pensions and available income are being reduced. However, the Minister in his touching attempt to present all the pomegranates said that farmers will not pay tax, rather they will be taxed back. Indeed, they are now saying the increase in VAT from 13% to 24%, the increase in tax rates from 13% to 45%, the doubling of insurance contributions, the abolition of the refund of the excise duty on oil - which doubles it - and the reduction of the pension by 60% of the pensioner, who, if he grows a number of acres to complete the income, will also be imposed on him by a tax rate of 22%? Or has it miraculously evolved to a tax reduction the characterisation of subsidies as net income and their taxation from the first euro and constitute compensatory payments and are not taxed? Let me remind you here that in November 2014 as Minister I said that for me, subsidies tax is a red line. A similar statement was made by the then Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras. I would also remind you that as Minister I reduced the tax rate to agricultural photovoltaics to half, from 26% to 13%. And because I want to be fair and I see in front of me Mr Stamatis, in cooperation with Mr Stamatis, we have managed to implement this reduction in the tax rate in agricultural PVs. While you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are now making agricultural production really inconsistent, you are creating agricultural income. I have also heard the Minister say that by his own decision from the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 he grants 37% to the thirteen regions. I don't have to disprove him today. I've done it on several occasions and with evidence. It's just that he's sinning the billion-dollar of a wise man. I am presenting in Minutes my speech to the Ministerial Council on 15 October 2014 on the specific Programme of Rural Development where I developed all the measures and the corresponding funds, as well as my speech of 17 December 2014 at the Agricultural Development Conference with the same subject, in the presence of representatives of producer bodies and representatives of the region who have heard that we are giving 1/3 of the Programme, namely 1,800,000 in the regions. [[At this point Mr Georgios Karasmanis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Minister also showed the situation in ELGA the day before yesterday. It will obviously mean as a success that ELGA is not working! Farmers are on constant strikes. No damage assessments are made when over the last two years we have had enormous damage to extreme weather phenomena that caused acarpality, but also to plant and animal diseases that have not been covered. It should therefore instead be possible to apologise to farmers and farmers, because instead of insisting on strengthening the ELGA provided for in the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, Measure 17, to compensate for the loss of income from extreme weather phenomena, it left and lost 200,000, 000 Community resources. And, at the same time, it would have to be apologised to young farmers, because for the second consecutive year it did not apply the decision we made in October 2014 and had announced it to the representatives of the Pan-Hellenic Young Farmers' Union that we would increase the value of the single payment rights at the highest value in each region. Let me remind him that we ensured the compensatory compensation for 2014-2020 of 500,000,000, Regulation 1378, published in the EU newspaper. Done at Brussels, 23 December 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Karasmani, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the fines are concerned, I can inform him that in 2014 we were not imposed on us a single euro. Finally, I would like to ask him: in October 2015, when the Commission came to us and gave us the credit to which areas of grazing it did it control? Did you have the ones that we handed over to you, and you have not even increased them by a single acre? Our work - an effort to eliminate this painful thorn of fines. You, Minister, all you know is to do a memorial to foreign tide. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u225	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u227	No, I can't give you that. I can't, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes. Personal reference has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u229	I can't, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u230	When a personal reference is made and things are said and, above all, numerically, which do not correspond to the reality, I cannot answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u231	I've been watching the conversation since the morning. You cannot intervene at all times after every speaker has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u232	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u233	I have given the floor to a parliamentary representative, Minister. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? Can you hear me? I have given the floor to a parliamentary representative. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u234	You gave him up after I asked you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u235	I didn't give it to you and explain why I refused. So what else do I have to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u236	Would you give me the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u237	No, I won't. They have to talk to my colleagues. But will this story be repeated again? Whoever is referring to the Ministry of Rural Development will appear and be confronted with what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u238	But is it possible that the government cannot answer? Mr President, when things are said and even figures which do not correspond to reality, I have to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u239	Excuse me very much, that's not happening. This thing can't be done. It's over and over! The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u240	Last night's dictionary of Mr. Tsipras is only a cheap attempt to deceive and disorientate the Greek people. It shows that it is a desperate attempt by the government to seek a board of salvation from the Greek people, a board of salvation, which, of course, will not receive. Last night's profess is deception. It's deceiving because the government is trying to get some crumbs out of consciousness. It is a tactic, followed by your predecessors, the New Democracy and the PASOK, whom you have the courage to describe as "the old", while you are characterizing yourself as "something new". In fact, not only are you nothing new, but instead you are the most rotten and bitter thing to show the old. It is also disorientation, because you are announcing measures that are supposed to relieve the people, when at the same time you sign, without the slightest opportunity, the further economic bleeding of the Greek people, its impoverishment, the sale of our Greek homeland, satisfying the orders of your bosses in Berlin in full. The Prime Minister said yesterday: "We are giving directly ahead of holidays 617,000 euros to about one million six hundred thousands of pensioners who receive pensions under 850 euros. And it complements Golden Dawn: "We will take them, sucklers, to the multiple with taxes of EUR 2.5 billion, which are provided for in the 2017 State Budget, as well as taxes of at least EUR 4.5 billion, which the International Monetary Fund considers inevitable in order to achieve the objective of the primary surplus of 3.5%, an objective agreed by the Government of Tsipras in the last Eurogroup". The Prime Minister said yesterday: "In this context we also decided on measures to support the islands of the first line that accept the refugee flows. For these islands of the northern Aegean and eastern Aegean, we have decided to suspend, as far as the refugee crisis is concerned, the increase in VAT." And the Golden Dawn supplements: "We are suspending and not abolishing, we are not withdrawing the increase in VAT on the islands for a period of time possible to complete the planned invasion of three more million illegal immigrants on the Aegean islands, as Turkey's President Tayyip Erdogan has of course announced. When the invasion is completed, the record of the relief of the islands will disappear and the already adopted measure of VAT increase, as provided for in the third memorandum, will be applied normally. The Prime Minister said yesterday: 'We are going through the last difficult steps of a difficult marathon'. In other words, you are using the adjective "hard" twice in the same sentence. What does that look like? It's hard for the government! Golden Dawn recalls this statement: "This is the right today to our resignation that kept the country standing in the crisis, which prevented the worst that threatened us even two years ago. And today we are finally coming out of both the crisis and the memoranda. We go out to continue reforms, but now in conditions of development." Who said that? A maker of great: Antonis Samaras at an event of the "New Democracy" event of October 2014. Any likeness of the Tsipras declarations with the respective Samaras statements two years ago is not at all symptomatic. The Tsipras and Samara statements are exactly the same and they are precisely the same because they are emanating from the same centre, from the Berlin Chancellorship. This is why we nationalists call you pilgrims who are responsible for the misery of our people, behold, why we nationalists call you thieves and preyers of national property. And we are committed to the Greek people that the time will come when we will rain down the door and tell you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, gentlemen of the ANEL, gentlemen of the New Democracy and gentlemen of PASOK, we are here to get the stolen money back, it's time to pay the bill. Those from here, as well as your paid dummys, who were inclined to believe that the Golden Dawn entered by the vote of the Greek people - and I stress this - in 2012 in the Greek Parliament to get a piece of the pie of the stolen ones, have been ravished. Golden Dawn is not looking for a share of the pie, but is looking for the whole pie to return it to its true owner, the dominant Greek people. This morning, in all the domestic media, the news of the invasion of hundreds of African illegal immigrants into Lesvos comes to light. The information suggests that these people lived in camps in north-west Turkey, evacuated by the Turkish authorities. This is obviously the beginning of the implementation of Erdogan's blackmail, which will flood Greece with about three and a half million refugees. This fact should, of course, be seen in conjunction with yesterday's news of the gradual activation of the shameful Dublin Agreement for Greece, which will enter into force from mid-March 2017. What does that mean, practically? It means that those of the illegal immigrants who have not received asylum in the rest of Europe are returning to Greece, as a first host country. So what do we see? Your government promised the Greek people European debt write-down commitments and what eventually brings Greece is a new memorandum and millions of illegal immigrants. But what is the position of Officer Opposition on the major issue of illegal immigration? New Democracy's journalistic fictions are questioned by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but they hide reality from the Greek public. And the reality is that the New Democracy does not only have a different position on this issue from SYRIZA, but, if there were no Golden Dawn, its position would be much more anti-national than that of the current government. In this respect, I quote the statement by former Vice-President of the New Democracy and current European Union Commissioner for Illegal Immigration, Mr Avramopoulos: ‘Under conditions, some categories of migrants could be returned to Europe through Greece after 15 March 2017’. Who defines these conditions is what we all know. In addition, for almost two years the newly-democratic Commissioner of the European Union, Mr Avramopoulos, has given his own congratulations to the Government of Tsipras on its immigration policy, even at the time when the Minister responsible at the time, Mr Christodoulopoulos, said that'refugees are being melted into Omonia'. Has the party ever reacted to the statements made by its prominent executive? Did he ever denounce them? Nor did she react to them and never did it, because her attitude in the matter is just as unethnic as that of Government Tsipras - Kammenos. With regard to the 2017 budget and beyond the arrogant and arrogant declarations by the Government on the development budget, I wish to emphasise this: the Government submitted it after obtaining the approval of the lenders. This can therefore rightly be described as a memorial ultimatum and not as a budget of a supposedly independent and sovereign national state. You may, of course, worship international loan sharks, but as you well know, Golden Dawn does not end up in either blackmail or scriptures. Our difference with all of you is this. The Golden Dawn does not engage in politics as a manager of the misery and impoverishment of the Greek people, but as the only political force that can guarantee the unity and freedom of the Greek people. Gentlemen of the government, in 2015 you said you might have succumbed to the disposal of lenders, but at least you saw a wind of change in Europe, implying that a turn to the Left is coming. Today, we must confirm your appreciation for change. Marxists and liberals have become the ridicule of the people and you are leaving, and we nationalists are coming! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u241	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the Educational Programme "KappostyRIA" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two trainers from the 5th Grade of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. George Chogas from SYRIZA will follow Mr. Thrafaniotis and then Minister Gavroglou. Here, Mr. Choga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget debate is taking place, I would say, at historic times, since the country, counting its wounds from the memorials that the flawless memory of the New Democracy and PASOK has brought unscathed, has already moved to positive growth for the first time since 2008. Unemployment is falling, the foreign trade balance is moving upwards, the nineteenth day of January - February presents a surplus beyond the target, private consumption recovers, sharply is the return of funds to banks, the interest rates of ten-year bonds left the penthouses of 12% and is limited by a downward trend of 6.4%, the second assessment is closed by about 95%, short-term debt relief measures were agreed unexpectedly better than the May agreement, the budget is planning serious social benefits in the context of the humanitarian crisis programme and the Prime Minister of the country announced last night that measures to support low incomes, by redistributing surpluses in the agreement produced wealth in favour of the weak, with the countermetric logic that more will be taken by anyone who has less. This will provide the thirteenth pension for 1,600 000 pensioners under 850 euros. At the same time, the increase in VAT on the islands has been suspended for as long as the refugee crisis lasts, without the agreement with the partners being completely affected. You, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, despite the fact that the signs of recovery are visible to the naked eye, about others you are treading and bleeding. Lying and deceiving the people's conscience, conscientiously falsifying reality and devouring us the factors that are fighting to save the country, refuse to contribute at least positively to the course of exit from the crisis and you have a very large share of responsibility and guilt. However, this peculiar veto hides horrific syndrome, maliciousness, opportunism and political cowardice, without a contribution and a contribution to social needs. So the government, not just between two elephants, the total opposition and the European institutions, but between your fantasies and your guilt, insists that it leave its left hand in its political and social history and calls for the budget to be voted in favour. SYRIZA, seeking a success story about popular classes, makes clear reference to labour relations, education and health, healthy entrepreneurship, investment and aims to build a reference strategy that will enable him to overcome himself and possibly overcome him. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it tabled a resolution on the current budget dominated by developmentalism, with provision for surpluses, a provision for social expenditure which marks the huge effort made by the government to retain social cohesion, remove the erosion of social links and give the choices of small but stable breaths that will ensure and substantiate a positive course of the economy and, in particular, a transition to a system of budgetary equilibrium, investment spring and protection of weak social strata, on the way to the construction of an organised and modern state, away from populism, but very close to the people's interests. In this light and having executed almost 90% to 95% of the reforms required, it appears that the growth of 2016 will be higher than expected, the second assessment is certain and the exit from the crisis in 2017 is as visible as ever, as in the second and third quarters of 2016 the economy is moving to a positive growth rate of 1.8% compared to that in 2015, as is expected for the fourth quarter. Greece is changing page and exiting the recession, considering that last growth is recorded in 2008, while in 2016 we have exceeded the target by 0.5%, i.e. about a billion. The direction and speed of degression of interest rates, ten-year bonds, spreads were in the summer of 9% and now reached 6.4% to about 6.5%, suggesting that the threshold is close beyond which Greek bonds can be accepted on the markets. The behaviour of the deposits shows a net influx for a fifth consecutive month, which shows increasing confidence in the banking system, while in the years of the crisis it was the opposite. The 11th-November surplus has exceeded the target by 2.44 billion. The surplus target in 2017 was estimated at 2% rather than 1.75%, and growth rate in 2017 is projected to move to 2.7%. Finally, the important recent agreement of 6 December 2016 gives a new impetus to the Greek economy, not only for the nominal reduction of debt by 20% of GDP, but also for the fact that it adds some credibility points to the Greek economy, so the country's accession to the European Central Bank's system of quantitative relaxation, the QE, which will in many cases determine the country's borrowing time from the markets, is anticipated. Having developed this dynamic, the Greek economy reduced unemployment to 23% from 27% and managed to enter in the budget under the budget of 760 million euros or 0.4% of GDP for the implementation of social solidarity income, without affecting the basic benefits such as family and disabled people, which will cover about 700,000 beneficiaries, renewing the expectation to improve their living conditions. Also, EUR 250 million will be allocated for social purposes by the Public Investment Programme and EUR 100 million will be added to protect vulnerable households, to protect the first home from forced seizures. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has put a stop to the collapse of the social state, the psalmology of the New Democracy and its falsified sensitivities. She also threw a stop to the New Democracy 'Success story' and revealed her novels she claimed - and still did - that in 2014 she was driving the country out of the memorandum and that then SYRIZA did not back off. This is an incredible myth that has no basis. With this psalmology, that the country was supposed to come out of the memorandum, I will stand on two points: that the target for 2014 was to cover 1.5%, but it covered only 0.2%, when it was committed by 1.3%, which means that new measures were coming along. In conjunction with the agreed surpluses over the next 3.5% and 4.5% years, from now on, the needs have obviously exceeded 20 billion. I mean, the total disaster. In that sense, SYRIZA’s decision not to support these choices was a national obligation. So SYRIZA laid the foundations in conditions of complete social and economic suffocation. It completed the recapitalisation of the banks, completed the first assessment, passed the development law, initiated the process of the NSRF, exploited the financing of the investment banks and finally reached, at the end of 2016, a positive sign and the forecast of its growth for 2017 to be 2.7%. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA gradually, methodically and fairly restores the weaknesses and needs of the Greek society, modernises the state, redistributes the wealth produced with transparency, equality and solidarity towards the weak, just as power and government policy must be exercised in a rule of law, just as it is appropriate for a modern and democratic society. Under these conditions I invite you to vote for the second budget of SYRIZA, because it is a milestone for the exit from the crisis that took place in the country, which, however, recovers under SYRIZA's navigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Thraniotis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a more favourable economic environment, which is also supported by the Eurogroup's decision on short-term debt reduction measures of 22% of GDP and 1.5% of GDP, we are now debating the 2017 budget, whose primary surplus target is expected to be 1.8% of GDP. Achieving this objective enables the Government to strengthen two of its most critical political options, to increase the national part of the public investment programme, and to implement universally the social income of solidarity with 760 million. It is also important to point out that overcoming the target of the 2016 budget made it possible for the government to allocate the sum of EUR 617 million to assist pensioners with an equivalent monthly pension of less than EUR 850, which is a government commitment to dispensing part of the surplus for social benefits. And opposition parties are going into a miserable criticism. We did not, of course, expect and welcome this initiative, an initiative aimed at strengthening and alleviating the low pensioners, those who have suffered the most from the consequences of the austerity policies. This is a criticism which clearly demonstrates that they do not really care about the difficulties experienced by low-pensioners, but about how anti-government policy will emerge. This government, whether like it or not, aims to serve social strata and groups that experience the economic crisis more than anyone else. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're gonna do. The same applies to the freezing of VAT on the islands. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, didn't you, from this Chamber, call the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, for VAT on the islands? Does that also conceal purposes? Such a petty thing? Yesterday the draft law titled "National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration and Social Cohesion Policies, Social Solidarity Arrangements and Applicable Provisions of Law.4387/2016 (A'85). It concerns the planning, monitoring, information, evaluation and coordination of the State's overall policy on vulnerable social groups, such as children, SMEs, the elderly, the homeless, in need of social protection. The fact is that the basic structure of the pre-accession map has remained the same for many years, particularly as regards institutions which have still to operate as large units of a strong institutional character, which are inconsistent with the current requirements of society. In addition, institutions governed by private law, which are not controlled by the State in terms of their operation and management of their large real estate, are distinguished by mismanagement and low quality services to guests. A characteristic example is the Elderly House of Athens, an institution that once hosted four hundred elderly people with huge immovable property. Today it has been completely devalued, with about a hundred guests living in terrible conditions, and this is due to mismanagement, opacity and smuggling of public money. Of course, justice has intervened, as has many others. That is why you are not complaining. And you know why? Because it is part of your harvest, creations of your own policies, your own client state. These distortions, weaknesses, come to correct the draft law that has been submitted and is, for example, distinguished in the following sections. The primary scheme, which includes all cash benefits. Let us stress that the budget savings of EUR 760 million for social solidarity have been achieved thanks to the persistence and documented studies proving that low-preferential allowances account for 2.1 % of GDP in our country compared with 4.1 % of the European Union average. The new design of the system, in order to be able to access the CRL, is simple and understandable. It shall be made through a pre-paid platform and its potential beneficiary may submit a request based on the income of the last six months. These are arrangements that are innovative in comparison to corresponding European systems and facilitate beneficiaries, which most often do not have access to information. The changes included by the national integration policy mechanism, which is able to collect information, are that it will contain three registries. The register of beneficiaries, the register of public and private welfare providers, the register of social welfare programmes. The same platform will serve two hundred and fifty four community centres throughout the country, thirteen observers in the regions, which will be subject to two addresses, one general supervision and one housed in the Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Social Solidarity. It also provides for the establishment of a single body for the payment of allowances by all government bodies, which will be linked to the IRRB database in a transparent manner, which is a constant request for the disabled movement. The promotion of a large reform of takeover and adoption will make a significant contribution to decoupling, which is a very important objective. It is also the legislative initiative to establish common rules for the assessment and control of institutions of private-law legal persons and legal persons governed by public law, which offer social protection services. Our social income of solidarity, obligation from 2012, was piloted in November 2014 in thirteen municipalities by the Samara - Venizelos government. Mr. Mitsotakis said in Thessaloniki that he would implement the KEY two years after his election. The Government begins the universal implementation of the CRL for some seven hundred thousand beneficiaries by voting on the bill already submitted to Parliament. Direct access to the national support mechanism platform, simple and comprehensible, of people belonging to vulnerable social groups, enables information on their rights, the possibility of finding work, their participation in European and national programmes. Most of all, however, citizens are being released from all the previous client regimes that forced them to go to states, parties and ministers to claim self-evident rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u245	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. I will not tire you, repeating the disastrous consequences of the crisis in education. It is known to all and everyone, even if some do not want to recognize them publicly. But what shocks us every day is the indescribable dissolution that public education has suffered, not only because of the crisis, but also because of the policies previously pursued. The goal of our Government and our central political choice is to shape the school that clear indications of even a cowardly development process allow us to leave the school of crisis behind. Let us begin by talking about education expenditure. For the first time since the last five years the funds for education have been increased. This increase, although small as a percentage, is translated into EUR 250 million, which will alleviate at least some of the urgent needs of education. In addition, in support of our development initiatives we have ensured a further EUR 100 million per year from European financial instruments by 2020. I am very pleased - and I sincerely stress it - that at least this increase and this course is recognised by the New Democracy. For almost two years now, we have been trying to retreat public education, institutionally undernourished, physically cracked and with a human resource, which the state itself has devalued for many years. Our policy is moving in two directions. We are establishing what has been done and at the same time improving them and planning new initiatives in the direction of education reform. I do not want to promise great regulations, but I would like to emphasise the importance of strengthening and improving what has already begun to happen. And it is not too small, nor negligible, what has already been achieved. For the first time after decades, all schools started operating normally from the first day of the school year. The single full-day school was generalized in elementary school. High school becomes more educationally friendly to students, without many exams. We were prolonging his useful teaching time and establishing the fast-twinning teaching for students who will not achieve a head-on to one of the courses. Committees of the Institute of Education Policy have streamlined the curriculum of the curriculum and have issued updated teaching instructions for primary and secondary courses. New study programs for foreign languages were also published, compatible with internationally recognized levels of language learning, and new programs for religious, compatible with modern teaching methods and scientifically documented knowledge of other religions, of course with Orthodoxy. Vocational training has been upgraded through updated timetables and curricula. After many years, we have established and implemented the educationally sound inclusion of children with disabilities in schools, restoring an injustice committed against a particularly sensitive group of our citizens. We streamlined many of the procedures governing the day-to-day operation of the HEIs. Finally, we have successfully faced one of our country's greatest challenges at this time, the education of refugees. A great deal has been done and everything that has been done, in the circumstances in which it has been done, is a great sport. But there's still a lot to be done. A great deal remains to be done in order to make status everything that should have been done many years ago. In such a complex institution, such as public education, which has suffered so much suffering and which has been so brutally devalued, the consolidation of normality is not something that is only done by laws and regulations. We also need a debate with society, a reflection of all of us, from all the parties, to start changing attitudes and pathogens that have been shaped for decades and which undermine the essential functioning of our educational institutions. We therefore need to consolidate our initiatives and further improve them. In pre-school education, which we intend not only to generalize but also to modernise, to renew the detailed programmes and to introduce new methods of teaching, such as differentiated teaching methods. In primary schools, we will expand the operation of the single-day type to include both single-seat, two-seat and three-seat primary schools. At the same time, we will improve the implementation of the programme during the afternoon hours so that students can receive substantial teaching. In high schools we are planning to establish the theme-week institution, which will be dedicated to health education this year, with emphasis on dependencies, nutrition and racial relations. At the same time, the entire compulsory education launches a pilot descriptive evaluation program, which will gradually be extended to all schools in 2018-2019. We are seeking to strengthen the competences of the school club and therefore the autonomy of the school unit in order to get rid of the red tape. The procedures for the design and evaluation of the educational project, which will gradually be introduced, will be an internal matter of school units and will in no case be punishable or, of course, will be linked to wages or redundancies. On the other hand, the aim is to create a culture of collaborative planning with the aim of improving the quality of the educational act in a climate of confidence and security. Such self-assessments will highlight the innovative actions already undertaken on the initiative of teachers in many of our schools. However, self-assessments of school units should also be recorded, and the obligations of the state, which in many areas fall short of them. High school is the most complex field in which we need to intervene. His autonomy as an educational grade needs to be restored. It is particularly critical that the last two classes of high school should be upgraded, the essential function of which, unfortunately, the whole of our society has been assigned to the schools. It is necessary for high school to award a reliable national sanitation centre, which will also form the basis for the new system of admission to universities. Immediately from Parliament's Committee on Educational Affairs, using the proposals made during the national and social dialogue, the work of the Institute for Educational Policy, the views of experts, educational bodies and proposals made over the past twenty years, through a dialogue, which will also be transmitted by the Parliament's channel, it is called upon to come up with a framework of proposals for the fourth degree: the upgrading of the last two classes of high school, reliable national dismissal, the abolition of the entire Greek examinations and the reform of the first few years for the HEIs. We hope that, as the former Minister of Education, Mr. Nikos Philis, on the previous agenda of the House, the discussions will be concluded by March, so that the necessary political decisions can be made and that all the children, who will be in the 1st of high school, will know what system will be in place for the end of high school and for admission to universities in September. We will plan, in other words, a three-year in-depth reform. Until then, the pan-Hellenic examinations will apply in their present form. The single area of higher education is the other major area of education reform. For many reasons, it is necessary to have a sense of smell between universities and TEIs, as is the case with research centres, so that the production of knowledge can be further promoted more effectively. Our great goal here is not only to maintain, but also to strengthen the autonomy of universities, like TEIs, and to support their research and education activities in a non-discriminatory manner. It is crucial to create a flexible PPE, which, free from excessive bureaucracy, will effectively manage research funds. I left for the end the support of teachers, not because we consider it secondary, but because we consider it excellent and critical. After all, in their own contribution and active involvement we support our optimism for the success of the project. Among the priorities of the Ministry is the creation of a central supportive structure for the educational community, which, among other things, will be responsible for programmes of substantial training and not - unfortunately - for this - a travesty of training, which has been done with so many European money. The great image of education, however, is not just about its typical levels. It is also about the way society meets with knowledge. Libraries, like the archives, need to become a living circus of culture on the web of our towns. One of the most important initiatives in this direction is the relaunching of the National Library in its new headquarters, the "Stavros Niarchos Foundation", and the redesigning of its actions. Its interconnection with the public libraries in the country we aspire to trigger a new book and reading policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the great challenge facing the Ministry of Education is to shield both teachers of all levels and young people and young people in our country, students and students, students and students. Our vision remains a education inspired by democratic and humanitarian values. Our aim is to build a society of inclusion and not a society of exclusion. These are values and social trends that can and must be taught. There is, moreover, an example of the excellent initiatives carried out by many teachers and, in fact, unhelpful. The Ministry should support such initiatives, support actions that convert schools, universities and TEIs from knowledge transmissions to communities that form creative and responsible citizens. Then we will be able to see the social worker again in the face of every teacher. What needs to be done is a lot. Several of these are extremely difficult. Some of the things we are proposing are the contribution of our Left to the composition of important concerns expressed in Europe. Our aim is for public education to be able to gain the status and the historical grievance that it is responsible for. In order to do so, however, we must again as a society our normality and this project cannot be completed if there is no elementary political and social consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Papariga has the floor, and then four Members will follow and the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u248	Tell us the names, Mr President, so that we know who Members are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u249	They will follow, as I said four Members, Mr Antoniadis, Mr Pallis, Mrs Rapti and Mr Friends, and then the Minister. Come on, Mrs. Papariga.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u250	Despite the fact that I'm pretty much cooked up, I'd say it's crippled, but last night I felt a real shock hearing and watching the Prime Minister talk about the revenue surplus he achieved and making distribution. Just because there is a surplus of revenue confirms the brutal and barbaric austerity that the government has continued, following the work of the former. In other words, under the last law the government removed 8.5 billion from the workers' pockets and returned 650 million euros to extreme poverty, as it says. I don't know how these people will accept this move, nor can I discount everyone if everyone like that thinks and behaves. But what is clear and clear is that the government wants to buy consciences and, above all, to cultivate permanently - it will not succeed, of course - what we call reduced requirements and reduced criteria for what today means living level, rights to life, work and so on. A second element, of course, which is not at all new, I just want to remind you, is this: but there is not a speech in the House either in a bill of general importance or, if you like, in these panels on television, which does not dominate the debate between what New Democracy and SYRIZA did, between what New Democracy and PASOK on the one hand and SYRIZA on the other. "I did that," "I will do that," a continuous comparison between them. This for us confirms - and for us, okay, it was known beforehand, it is no surprise - that you are moving on the same cruising line, despite any individual differences. Will you tell me, does SYRIZA not have the right to make a comparison with the previous one, as did PASOK in relation to New Democracy or vice versa? A party that appears to be left-wing, subversive, radical cannot have as a major benchmark what New Democracy has done and what it has done. He has to put another comparison element, which he did not put, and he will not put it, and when he puts it, he will only do it for demagoguery. First of all, to recognise what the current needs of the workers are, what, if you want, were, before a crisis and what they are today, even increased, in circumstances of crisis. We have not heard of this, that is what needs are. Let's even make a description. Because when he talks about piles and coupons, that is not the recognition of workers' needs. Another clue. A left-wing government, as a left-wing party says, must, even if you like, in words - but it does not dare to do so in words - recognise that the producer of wealth is the working man. On the contrary, it speaks of social cohesion, of political stability - what will social cohesion say? - for social partners, who will even sit at the table and negotiate evenly the collective agreements and the redistribution of profits and wealth and so on. These were the classic, traditional, as they have been called, right parties, liberals, social democrats, these classics that we have known and others. Because today, of course, the leader of modern social democracy is SYRIZA. Even lyrics are not said, while, otherwise, he can easily talk about revolution, rebellion and something like that. But these specific truths from a position of principle will never be heard from the mouth of SYRIZA. Because that opens up a little human consciousness. The others create emotions and blurred protests and blind situations. Honestly, I, at least, am tired of this irresponsible morality that goes through competition and confrontation between you in this House. Irrelevant morality. What's the cause of the crisis? Incompetence, looting, partisanism, rosétology, the appointment of our "our own" children, the great state, and so on. All from an ethical point of view. So interpret the judgment. Let's take the '90s. We had a crisis in a number of countries and almost synchronized. Many capitalist nations have touched the crisis, but the crisis has passed a lot and it goes on and on today and tomorrow there will be more to go through. Everything had immoral, dishonest, incompetent? SYRIZA, don't you move on the same line of cruising with New Democracy and other parties, when you go to make the capitalist system itself, which is within his DNA, the crisis? Not that there are no smilings, no squeezings and no more. There are. They do not create such a deep economic crisis. I am saying this, not to do any lessons, because, after all, we are not listening to ears, but because, in any case, you are angry too many times by saying that we are like you and do not see the differences. I'm going to tell you another example. The modern needs of workers, of course, are not a general size. It has historical content. We are talking to Greece, with its specific real development potential, with the productivity of the work that exists, with the progress of science and technology, not only in Greece but globally, because it is now being distributed and implemented everywhere, even if there are political or subjective choices, in the most late African countries. That's not what this is about. What is the reason for the government and all other parties? For Greece's development potential, where there is a comparative advantage. What do you mean by that? You mean where it is best, domestic and foreign monopolies to make profit and to go through the tough and impeccable competition between them. You are not talking about all sectors, industries, for example, and all manufacturing sectors. Oh, no. Where there is a comparative advantage, based on the monopolies that will decide on the lakes, the huge in cash, stocks that have to make their investments. No, of course, for the development potential that serves human needs, in Greece in particular, with its specific potential. What else do you invoke? The geostrategic advantage Greece has. What is Greece's geostrategic advantage? Greece is based on military base, not only in the United States and others. You're even suggesting new bases to come there. Greece was involved, remains and may be even more involved in an imperialist war. Greece is involved in imperialist pressures and interventions in a number of countries. What are the branches with the comparative advantages? Energy, telecommunications, gas and oil transport and others. I mean, the roads that were, they're and they'll be painted with blood. What else is it here? New Democracy is angry because you do not move on to privatization. The government answers: 'No, we in some cases do not give 100%, we do not privatise businesses. We will grant them for exploitation, infrastructure and then we will take them back." Look at you now, both States and monopolistic magistrates do not buy for ever - nor for ninety years will you have voted for - neither ports nor airports nor other areas. She's not a sucker. The cell phone's been deceived in six months. They will take the airports for twenty years - thirty say, I tell you about twenty - they will also do infrastructure projects and they will then give up because the link has become another port, perhaps in Malta or I don't know where else, and they will leave them and have no value. So you have a common navigation line and - here I will conclude - you have some partial differences. However, stop shouting and saying 'Look at see, we have the rise of the far right in Europe'. Of course there is, and we are concerned about that, first of all with everyone. I'm sorry, that's because we have a story and we know what that means. But far-right viewpoints are not just a birth of liberal politics. It is a birth of competition policy and the ideology and practice of twin liberal and social democratic parties. Trump wanted Obama too. Merkel wants Gabriel. That's how it's done. History has shown that example. From this point of view, the competition that exists today in this House with main poles of New Democracy and SYRIZA is a key factor - I am not saying that it is the exclusive - supply of extreme right-wing viewpoints. The New Democracy, of course, has a class experience and class instinct and knows that the movement is in temporary retreat and what it does is to slander, pervert and beat not only any movement that exists today, but also the history of the labour movement in Greece. You don't do that. You, after you're deceiving and pulling out of the movement its essence, you're smuggling, just like PASOK did in the 1970s. All of this yes, they have extreme right-wing views, because you are currently entangled in the people between you. One hand washes the other. Are you not telling me: does your cooperation with the ANLL not lead to the strengthening of extreme right-wing opinions? Here's the example. Doesn't it drive? Now you say "heads inside", because the extreme right grows. Everyone with SYRIZA or everyone with the New Democracy - which is not so extreme - because the extreme right rises. The new danger has been found. That's the danger you're feeding him. Poverty generally does not feed him. You feed him with mechanisms, feed him with your policy, feed him with all the effort you do to "go oil" the capitalist system itself. One last thing. We keep hearing about International Law. What is this International Law? Solve Cyprus with International Law, the Aegean issue with International Law. What's that? There was an international law when there was another connection, after World War II, which brought the fingerprints of the pressure of the socialist system. This International Law has changed, it has become a rag. There are UN decisions here, which says that NATO can intervene without UN approval and not just this, but NATO must complement the UN. He's changed. International law. What? Others have signed it. Others have not signed it. Instead of going to Kastelorizo and taking walks very much to please the Armed Forces, why don't you bring them up to NATO? Since 1973, after NATO has tolerated Turkey's claims. Why, for example, did you not raise any objections and did you not make any protests in the State Department's communication that says 'do you find them between you Greece and Turkey'? Are these things now, wear the variation suits? We do not say that you will make war with Turkey, but 'you will sew it'. Why? Because you want investment in order to restore capitalist profitability, because you want to highlight the geostrategic role of Greece, which will sooner or later get Greece involved in much larger adventures. You do not solve the issues by sharing EUR 300 and 400 and 500 to those who have already been condemned by the previous governments and who have now been condemned to poverty. I conclude by saying this: the greatest damage you are doing - and that is what you are making consciously not only the government, but also the other parties and all the mechanisms of the system - is to convince the people that it cannot impose its right by using what? The retreat of the forces of socialism, the overthrow of socialism in the twentieth century. I am not going to justify overthrowing in any way, but experience has shown this: when you go to imitate the ideas of capitalism, you have no future. Just as much as the month or time does not bring them a moment. Today there are all the preconditions - and we are working in this direction - for one thing: for the people to realise that they have the power and to prevent certain measures from being taken by the government, but also to impose their own way, which is not easy, but is much easier than the policy of the government and the other parties in the years to come. There are new memos coming. They won't call them memos. They will be called 'cutters','six months' and others. The only capacity the government has shown is precisely the ability to manipulate the people. How long will this ability last? I don't know. In this ability you're pretty good, but not for long. Because the system itself reacts and rots. Capitalism cannot give what it gave 30 years ago, forty and fifty years ago. It's over. It will become more reactionary, more impatient and the contradictions between the capitalist states, which are allies among themselves, will be so increased that it will not be able to make concessions or possibly open slates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u251	Mr Ioannis Antoniadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u252	We only agree with Mrs Papayannakis on the issue of manipulation. Mr Gabroglou, I want to make a few points. First of all, in all respects, invoke Mr. Friend. Mr. Friends sought the Sovietisation of Greek education. You should know that. Secondly, you spoke of the fighter teachers. Two years of fighting teachers you had thrown them into Kaidas. I am talking specifically about teachers and teachers - not university teachers. Thirdly, what you say is empty content if education and education are not once linked to the market and production, and if the universities are not freed and there are no private universities. After twenty years the Minister of Education will make the same findings and take the same measures. One last thing: From Florina, the Department of Balkan Studies left in one night for the glory of university professors, to serve syndicate interests. Because the teachers found a job in Florida and then they wanted a large urban center so they could enjoy their salaries. This is the Greece of the education we dream about. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all good holidays and many years in Annulles. I'm coming straight to the conversation. Are we talking in what circumstances? Politicians and politicians are completely dismantled by society, a society that is indifferent, a society that is immersed in the deadlocks and problems and a third society that is struggling for its future. It's your second budget. You have closed two years and fatality, the budget goes further to an estimate of two years from the budget, since it will not improve even a minimum of citizens' lives. In fact, I have been very trained to find a qualification for the two years, so that I do not blame you: from poor to non-existent. If I was going to score it, I'd have to use subdivisions of the unit. And if a burglar were to attempt to steal your rich work, he would be disappointed, because he would find an empty vault. Two years with endless negotiations, from the tragic results of the 'airport' negotiations to the poor until yesterday's negotiations. Does anyone really remember that notorious bill to relaunch the economy in 2015? Does anyone remember that famous plan to democratise public administration? There have also been a number of other bills with heavy titles, which have been left with only words. Two years lost, at a great cost. Redling counts it at 100 billion euros, while Stournaras is 80 billion euros. You are critical - and rightly so - of increasing indirect taxes, reducing deposits, increasing dues, reducing social costs. Greece is a predecessor - twenty-seventh in the twenty-eight - in the agro-industrial uptakes. Eighty-sixteenth-sixteenth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-st-st-smoking, the day before yesterday, the day before we heard it, it was first in passive smoking. Is the humanitarian crisis really over? You once put it up to 4.5 million. Is the foreign occupation over or now the troika is coming for tourism? It's a budget that divides poverty without vision. No contact with reality, because reality says other things. He says the Greek is sighing in hospitals by shortages of material and goods. It says that companies are leaving to the outside, because there is no cash to breathe, but also because of taxes and high contributions. It says that private workers are squeezing under the blackmail of the bosses, who give them 450 euros for ten hours a day, if they don't want to, at home. Really, can he live a man with 450 euros? The reality also says that farmers sell their products at cost. Huge problems from refugee and miserable conditions, the same in education, social benefits and more, with unemployment, the great cancer of society. There's nothing moving on from development projects, giving some oxygen to the market and workers. Here to make a little reference to Florinna. As in all of Greece, a nail didn't come in. The subject of remote heating is cancerous. Nothing on the road line Florina - Ptolemaida, nothing on the return of the Department of Balkan Studies, nothing on the Amyntai reservoir, irrigation networks. I come to a final point, and I address the new Minister for Energy, on the construction of the second power plant. Background work is being done with the Chinese. I warn the new Minister for Energy, if local laws are not met, in Florina it will become "Keratea". There are owed to the citizens of Florina by old companies, who rose up and left large pits. If there is no compatibility that the new unit will get local potential, we will not accept what is being done in Skopje, filled with Chinese workers. We are not going to accept building a new unit and having Pakistani and Afghans and everyone else and the others at work, and of course the question of free electricity. SYRIZA's big problem isn't all that. It is also these, but it is mainly his political presence and lost credibility. What is it, Merkel? Is he a Head of Economic Reich or a Strong Ally? Olad, what's today? "Olandreou" or a powerful ally? Is the IMF good when it asks for a debt reduction and a bad thing when it asks for a pension reduction? What is the United States? People's killers or allies? Now what the Revolution of 1821 has to do with October, that's all Comantante can tell us. Ladies and gentlemen, more or less budgetary matters have been balanced. Why doesn't the economy take off? Why don't foreign and domestic investment come? Just because they don't trust you. Something is built day after day, slowly falling down overnight. You found the tree, you lost the forest with your contradictory statements and actions. But you say in the morning, noon, noon. Someone else is pulling for the East and someone else for the West. Gentlemen, the people want solutions now. Either you are giving solutions now to the problems and the deadlocks that you have created, or then the people themselves will give the solution, since democracy knows that there are no dead ends. Happy holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u253	We continue with Mr. Pallis Georgios from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, can I make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u255	Yeah. Wait a minute, Mr. Palley. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u256	There is a debate using the word'sovietization'. I'm saying this to protect you, because you're being exposed by using that word. If you read what Prime Minister Rally and Bakoyannis said, if what we're going to do is Sovietisation, I don't know what you'll have to say about these colleagues. So I say so that you are not exposed, do not use the same word that the Association of Private Education uses extremely aggressively. It does not honor those colleagues either, it does not honor the use of something that is wrong and unhistoric. I'm saying, I insist, to protect you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u257	Here, Mr. Palley, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that investors who would like to come to the country, listening to the previous speaker and all these sufferings suffered by the place, the speeches of many together, would never come. Let's get some data. We had an agreement and we have a specific environment in which we are consciously trying to apply, within this narrow framework of a long-term austerity, an aspect of our policy in view of the need for structural changes and with a view to redistributing, to the extent possible under these circumstances, in order to strengthen our weak fellow citizens, to strengthen health, education and the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2017 budget of a country that is in a very weak position of the most confusing and fearful continent, in the sight of global challenges and tectonic and political changes, of a continent that closes the eyes to the sight of thousands of drowned people in the Mediterranean, a continent that closes the eyes to Grandma with children in Lesbos, on the hot spot, a continent that, instead of investing in its competitive advantages, in research, in innovation, in its educated population, in high added value, degrading the living level of citizens. Is that what we want, ladies and gentlemen? Can we compete with them on labour costs? Can we compete with developing countries as a Europe? Can the story come back? It can't be, ladies and gentlemen. There are many problems, the challenges are endless, the policy that has so far been pursued in Europe is unsuccessful. In recent years, instead of problems being solved, deadlocks have been added. Instead of redistributing wealth, inequalities are growing, instead of defending the weak, Europe is being called upon to impoverish them further. Instead of expressing a new account of society and citizens, a story that will include the quality of life of citizens, we manage miserably our everyday lives, trying to cope with the results of changes, without doing anything to address the causes of these changes, without actually interfering, so that we can take the initiative of choices that determine our lives. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, our country has been in a major crisis for several years, and I think you will agree that we are not solely responsible for this situation. I also believe that we all agree that without radical changes, structural reforms and difficult choices we cannot escape the dreadful materialistic cycle in which we have been in recent years and that changes require time, the consent of our fellow citizens, their participation and the wider social consensus. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are here, I believe you will agree that these changes cannot take place within a permanent institutional environment, that, in order not to disrupt social cohesion, the weak social groups, refugees and pensioners must be protected. It is a matter of social cohesion, humanity and political culture to protect these groups. Faithful application of the deadly memorials does not include this political culture. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the political debate begins. Here is where you need to be placed politically, honestly and patriotically. If you are in agreement with structural reforms, you must admit that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with any omissions and errors, has managed to move things that did not go ahead over the past few decades, which you have wasted billions, you have not had the political will to do and you have created a huge financial cost for all the coming years, even today. If, of course, for political reasons, you are embarrassed, that is understandable on our part. If you agree to the fact that the profound structural changes have to happen, this is where the conflict comes. Because for us, these changes cannot be without society, they cannot be just figures. That is our big political difference. We are interested in the recovery of the economy to include the citizens themselves and not just the numbers. We don't want a Ghana-type development. We do not want to achieve targets with redundancies. We are dreaming of growth within a social and human Europe of tomorrow. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Spyridon Lykoudi, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to the refugee section of the budget, to a newly established ministry, which, in addition to the announcements on aid and self-government, needs to make use of the European funds available to deal with the refugee problem. However, you are criticising us, completely sterile, to tackle the refugee crisis, to our omissions, to the humanity we have shown when the major refugee waves began, on the policy of the inadequacy of refugees to Turkey. When tomorrow, then, our European friends will impose the gradual reintroduction of Dublin that you have voted for, condemning our country, without guarantees, you will be in the bars. Here, therefore, they do not fit in with such policies. On the islands of the eastern Aegean you are constantly lifting various movements and playing dangerous. You ask for them to be evacuated from the refugees, and the next you ask that the VAT should not be abolished because of the refugee. You won't do any of this because you were incapable of doing it. This is what the government and VAT have maintained, because it has been documented, with a great deal of work, given to Europe what it has had to do in order to achieve this thing that is a social need. I can even pass on to you that our fellow citizens have been relieved today and are more optimistic. As was the case yesterday, with the announcement of the poorest of our fellow citizens, this surplus through these measures of the applied austerity we have been imposed upon the poorest. I therefore call on all colleagues, particularly colleagues in the opposition, to listen to the juncture and to see how this country can go forward. A lot of new minds have gone out. It's my generation that's gone out. If nothing else, don't stop her from coming back to contribute to this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Helena Rapt from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the budget may be the most critical piece of legislation in every parliamentary year, I wonder how much it is worth discussing on the basis of a project, which is certainly not going to be carried out as reflected. For in all the last years, budget figures have changed, revenue and expenditure balance has been overturned, government revenue expected has not been confirmed and almost always needed a supplementary budget to cover emergencies. Do we have any difference this year? Does something change, when it is already confessed by the government that every basic size of the budget has an asterisk and is under the mandate of completing the evaluation? The 2017 budget is based on an incomprehensible optimism. It's like people who don't live in Greece who very clearly capture the chaotic distance between the economy as predicted, and the economy as experienced by the Greeks. I would even say to you that it was written with a communication logic, since on the first lines of the report, read by all, it speaks of more than double the primary surplus in 2016, 1.09% instead of the target of the Memorandum 0.53%, thus passing the image of an economy that goes beyond its objectives. Is that really so? So this is 1.09% in figures means 1.9 billion, instead of 900 million. Thus, in 2016, the State will produce a primary surplus of 1 billion additional, which is indeed a rush to distribute in the form of a social dividend. No one disagrees with the distribution of social dividends. In the economy, however, things are usually not as nice as they seem. The main question is where the dividend came from and, of course, how the surplus emerged, which leads to the distribution of this dividend. Did production and consumption increase? Not at all. Indicators are constantly downwards. Does a sector of the economy move and produce public revenue? If that were the case, we'd know. Is the State's service cost reduced and left more available? Of course not. Did we then go to such growth rates that doubling the targets? Unfortunately, the recession lasts well. So what's going on? The truth is very simple. The explanation of the surplus is obvious. Taxes increased and increased dramatically, without prior tax on any invention. Even in Greek's coffee, we had a 25% increase. However, when the surplus revenues are generated by overtaxation and not by growth, the dividend is distributed as a political obligation and without economic logic, and this is dangerous, not only because it creates a non-recurring social benefit, but mainly because it eliminates the Greeks' burden-sharing capacity, bringing about fewer Greeks on the side of those creating growth and producing taxes and more Greeks on the list of those who will need the social dividend. You're creating more poor with your policy. Because you do not know how to develop, you are confined to how to distribute, taxing excessively. Obviously, this movement is not a movement of sensitivity, it is a political move, depending on 'give everything' and'monots exist'. But I remind you both that they were bad luck. I'm guessing you're probably looking at the election horizon and you said to give something to our tested citizens. You first tax them brutally and then give them, as charity, a dividend of their own money. At the same time, eight thousand professionals a month deliver their block and leave their fund. Do you know who they are? The ones who gave you the taxes to split the dividend. But next year, where will you find them? Because they left to another land, to other places, as with your policy you empty Greece from entrepreneurship. Italy is in crisis. The economies are becoming more protective. The economic policy of the Trump administration has not yet been seen. The debt of countries is also increasing Euroscepticism. Even under ideal conditions, predicted growth would be difficult, let alone within such a climate. All of this should add to the problem of the management of incalculable private, non-performing debt, which has not yet been resolved. Of course, a glance at the sources from which the increase in public revenue appears is enough to see that they are almost just taxes. As for the social dimension of the budget, it is zero, perhaps even negative, if we take account of what will be deducted from many social and vulnerable groups with increases in taxes and reductions in pensions and salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this budget cannot stand. There is also no doubt that, in order for the government to stand there, it will proceed to another tax raid. A package of 2-3 billion is already being discussed and planned. What we are talking about today is a text that is different from what we will see finally being implemented. The government, in its agony to show that something is going well, is optimistic about numbers and pessimistic about people. The state budget will change. The question is whether the government will have to change with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague Mr. Nikos Friend from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the first budget in the years of the Memorandum of Understanding in our country aimed at development. The question is: What development? How much and how will the austerity be handled? How will new creditors blackmail be dealt with without returning to the conditions of August 2015? We support the fight that the government is giving these days in order to have a lasting agreement as sustainable as possible and to make a small step forward, with social sensitivity and with eyes in the future. Obviously a prerequisite for such a course is the safeguarding of political stability. So those who, instantly, move scripts for early elections, are evidently in a hurry to sew ministerial costumes. They'll stay their suits in the wardrobe for a long time. But the budget - we have to say the truth - is determined by its burdensome, neoliberal on important aspects, an agreement of August 2015. It is also defined by the dynamics of political and social developments. His outcome will be judged on the one hand by the left-wing government's ability to exploit potential and, at the same time, to inspire the popular factor. Without support to the people's factor, there is no success of the left-wing government. At the same time, it will also be judged by international and European developments. And here we are. Recently we had the Italian 'no', a proud 'no', which makes us think about our own experience, another proud 'no', and at the same time we have developments from another side like the rise of Trump. From different directions, therefore, the crisis of the central social-liberal consensus is confirmed. Societies cannot go for a long time primarily towards austerity and work on the margin, not to be central to economic and social policy. Real projections are no longer converging in the Centre - 20 years has changed - but they form two rival ideological, political and programming poles of the political system here and in other European countries. On the one hand, it is the right, which is increasingly on the right, and on the other, I have noted with some scepticism the tendency to reduce this risk of far-right from what Mrs Papayannakis said, which seems to be a creature of imagination, the rise of the far-right in Europe - and on the other is the Left, with its wider political and ideological inland. The Left, which, in times of crisis that so far produce frustration in our country - we see it - can gain communication with new social forces, which realize that even in the present crash of dreams and hopes, a small, minimal hope exists to the left and not to the right and even to the right. It is obvious that this international new trend, which, I repeat, recommends the collapse of the central social-liberal consensus in Europe and in the rest of the world, repositions the Greek problem in all its dimensions - we are not paradoxical, we are, is the truth, a stage before and we do not know how much we can withstand these developments - and programming and government, with the focus of programming and governmental dimensions on work. That's the thing about society. The budget will also be judged in the environment of the refugee crisis. We have a resurgence of a risk based on objective and subjective problems that the government needs to bear in mind, a risk that is added to the attempt to create a new version of the extreme centre. We see in various regions, on the basis of which - I repeat - there are problems which the government needs to deal with, that they form fronts between bankrupt states, mayors who exist to care for both ears and ecclesiastical factors. All of these speculate, with the aim of returning to power. But what authority? Is that how they're going to build the new Greece, with such values and such ideals? Because the central issue, beyond the economic issue, is what values will come out of the crisis. Work is obviously a value that others form, democracy of course. But can we leave to the undoubtedness of this difficult battle powers which are also responsible for today's crisis, such as church power? Is it possible to bow and leave, as far as we leave, with a number of symbolic moves - and I hope that they are not fundamental moves in the future - the possibility for church top factors to intervene in the formation of governments and programmes in schools? However, this also takes us to another matter of values, which has to do with national issues. The debate on the Cyprus issue has begun before. Talks with Kastelorizo - and I mean recent experience - cannot go together. It is the government's responsibility, which programmedly and democratically has assumed the responsibility of joint cooperation with the government in Nicosia, the Cypriot Government, to ensure a framework so that the talks can evolve as effectively as possible, without rushing and without regressing to national stereotypes. We can also win something from Cyprus. At the moment the two major parties, the government, the DISY, right, and the ATA, on the left, are working together to find a solution. In Greece? I don't see anyone from New Democracy. Of course, I see Mr. Stamatis and Mr. Karamanlis in the background. Can there not be any agreement in Greece, no information to stand on the side of Cyprus's government and other political forces? Is there no room for consultation, too? Ladies and gentlemen, education is a key element in what we call values, conditions and values, to get out of the crisis. The Minister of Education, Mr Gavroglou, who spoke in detail about the need for reforms and with whom we have and have very good cooperation, referred to the priorities of the government, which are not confined to universities and higher education, but extends to the entire range of public school, from preschool to university education and research. We need to get away from stereotypes, according to which a bipartite conflict around the universities was the quintussia of so-called change in education. The Greek family this year realized that much has been done and we know that more needs to be done to change education, from the first stage to the last, and not to get away from the great dilemmas created today in our education society, for a school of quality and equality, for a public school of quality and equality. We could talk more specifically about this issue, but I repeat that we have confidence that the government work that we started with the necessary adjustments will continue in the field of education, which is a pillar of the social state, the pillar of development, as the Left has shaped it in its programme and in the rest of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is in a transfer. From a country's plunged into the crisis, a Europe's alternative laboratory can be carried out along with other European developments, which is why we have stressed developments in Italy and elsewhere from the outset. The fact that the extreme right raises a head does not mean that this leads the left to the margin. On the contrary, it places new, increased historical tasks, as happened in Greece, which SYRIZA was emblematic in the extreme right-wing explosion, to happen the same now or in the medium term in other European countries. For this to happen, we obviously need what we think and what we are doing to be within a horizon of changing the paradigm of the economy and of changing society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the budget, one could easily, in particular by the Government and by the Communism, spend a debate on the current characteristics of Greek society. The questions they ask are specific: Are we going out of the crisis? Is there any evidence and conclusions in this direction? It could therefore, this week, any mediator who read, find evidence of the decline of unemployment, which has taken an important step towards increasing revenue by 2.44 billion, and indeed, as the Finance Minister told the Committee, for the first time, aiming at what was so far called 'voluntary taxes', why the bourgeois order and those who escaped from taxation voluntarily paid taxes, because there was a legal tax evasion to the PASOK and New Democracy governments, assisted or covered by PASOK and New Democracy. At the same time, there is an increase in exports, with a double-digit figure, an increase in investment in fixed capital goods, also with a double-digit rate, also with a double-digit rate, and a surplus for 2016, which is about 2 billion. It would not be enough, however, for this debate to discuss the budget, which is why I am changing my page quickly. We could also have a debate on the strategy, but because the strategy is the same as the 2016 budget - and I am referring to budgetary stability, financial stability and market functioning, structural changes and accelerating production and social policy with redistribution, in these four pillars - I think we can also move to another, more interesting debate. I call on you to have a debate on what is behind the budget and behind the economic policy. Last night the Prime Minister announced the redistribution of the 2016 surplus and proved two things: first of all, that this government can say little, because it is trapped in an absolute, horizontal bankrupty of the country, but what he says does, unlike previous governments. Secondly, it has shown that we have other priorities, because this government has decided - and this is what the Prime Minister did last night - and gives society the product that this society produces. It delivers it and prioritises it to the patients and affected social classes, because the surplus belongs to them. You, the previous ones who ruled the country, what society has rendered, even with the creation of deficits, not in surplus periods, rendered it to the canalarchs and even to the "air", handed it over to the "kombars", handed it over to the "SIEMENS", to the other few-government or family rule, which even governs your parties. This is a radical difference, because we have nothing to do with you. This difference I believe that the conclusion of the committee of inquiry, which is currently being prepared, will prove it and must prove it, because I hope the opposition will not hide behind the reality that has been publicly tabled in parliamentary procedures. Thus, 617 million are given to pensioners, 4.7 times more than the losses of the CSCE, with 500 to 830 euros in two hundred thousand families, 300 to 500 euros in five hundred thousand families and 300 euros in seven hundred thousand families and even money directly placed on the market and not going to be consumed before Christmas in Swiss sauces, as your friends did. The budget has a corresponding choice. Social solidarity income of 760 million for two hundred and fifty thousand households, special social programmes, new disability, childcare, homeless, privileged - I would say - policy on education, health and welfare, in addition to last year's funding of 300 million more and with 100 million first home support. That's our difference. So the difference is that we are not the same. We deal with society and you deal with those whose interests you always serve. But let's see something different. The Eurogroup decided at the beginning of the week a debt cut of EUR 45 billion. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. It turns out that it could finally be done. It was not just the PSI debt reduction tool. In other words, could the problem of our country's debt be solved without a nuclear bomb being dropped into the insurance funds and taken from the micrologics? Eventually, it turned out to be possible. It can be done anyway. Because this is revealed, you're probably inconvenienced. Because then you had one purpose and said it publicly once again: to save the banks of the Germans and the French in all likelihood and by a majority. Let us add that, in addition to what we have been through in the negotiation and was a net debt cut, we have managed and saved 20 billion more of the surpluses you have agreed to have in Greek society. Of course, it is cynical to come now and say that it is a huge surplus of 3.5% for 2018, when you agreed - and to remind you - for this year 4.2% surplus, for the year 4,5% and another 4.5% in 2018. These surpluses, therefore, have been saved by the Greek society on its own choice, because it has only escaped from the New Democracy and the PASOK. That's our difference. Our difference is that we negotiate, to win the Greek society, is directly attributed to the Greek society, while you negotiated, first of all, to serve specific interests and, basically, to have the chair of power. In this chase of power, it is a fact that you have recently become ruthless. You use propaganda, falsification of truth, of reality. You do not care about the interests of the country, and even with fraud and forgery you are influencing elections to trade unions. From there it seems central to your executives to where they can reach fraud and forgery, to get back the chairs and use trade unions for political and party purposes. My colleague, Mr Dritsa, mentioned an unreasonable agreement, if you like, and a coincidence of opinions and interests of trade unions - I am not saying unions - and employers. We, however, say that forever, we will at least serve the interests of workers. And that's different with what you used to do. However, ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to the subject of the Ministry, because we must say that the budget, in addition to the political lessons it gives us - this week has given us two important lessons - must also be done in the context of the debate on Europe that we want. The budget is not a close debate on the Greek reality. Here we must say that Europe, which adopted the climate change agreement in Paris and in October 2015 the agreement on sustainable development objectives, this Europe in its budgetary policy does not implement the sustainable development objectives it has chosen. Why should we see it: Greece in 2016, compared to 2010, has regressed from the sustainable development objectives, which Europe itself has incorporated as a key strategy on poverty, labour and access to basic goods. All of this is backwards. We must therefore have a debate here on a Europe that really supports the objectives of sustainable development, a policy that is not just environmentally, is universal at all levels, because it is really linked to poverty, to investment, to research and development, and I think it creates the obligation, if we agree, all here with these issues of sustainable development, to say that we will work together for a Europe that deals with fair growth, with sustainable development and invests, if you want, in support of vulnerable social groups, in productive work, in sustainable industrialisation, in reducing inequality and in sustainable cities, in dealing with climate change and in the protection of ecosystems. But is there room for a debate on conflict of development and the environment? Yeah. If we were to talk about the growth we have had so far, the short-sighted growth that it has consumed, without even giving any work, based on unqualified work, on tyres and not on long-term investment, yes. Your development was colluding with the environment. However, fair and sustainable development is based on the environment, and European policy has understood it, you have never implemented it, because it was provincial in Greece's policy. The nephew's economy for quick profits, to take them and to leave and make them unable to invest abroad is not a sustainable development. Let me say here that growth cannot be sustainable and that it is sustainable for a country that has uncontrolled waste disposal and hazardous waste disposal sites, two fines that we are now paying for. Greece pays due to the policy of the New Democracy and PASOK today fines for environmental violations, which, if it invested in the operation of the state in the past ten years, would not pay anything and would also have more jobs. This is the opinion of the previous governments on the environment: uncontrolled disposal sites and hazardous waste in the yards of the largest Greek industries, which affects the essence of industrial development and labour, because, if you have no room for industrial waste, you will not have steel, you will have no oil industry, you will never have work, you will never be self-powered as a country and independent. This was the option, however, that the country should also be enslaved by the environment to fines and to foreign companies that are currently managing our waste. Why did we drive?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u265	Please complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u266	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm done. We have led to a messenger economy of waste and quarry, because this is even done in Attica this month, we have led to the entrepreneurship of 40% of the tax evasion from the recycling fee that it had to pay to the Greek society for recycling. This was not solved by the Recycling Agency in previous years. They do not pay 40% fees for recycling, which consumers pay to producers. This is the state of the relationship between the environment and development. Not to mention how many environmental inspectors the Ministry has. Forty-five. Fifteen. Environmental inspectors for the country as a whole over the last five years. However, I think that we must return to the simultaneous return of the rule of law and of equality and the environment, but also to the cyclical competitive, sustainable economy, an economy that is compatible with the environment, which will be based on the codification of environmental legislation, on the imprinting of the regulations on a digital map for Greece, which is both an ecological and a development tool and a clearer relationship between society and the economy, and on the organisation of industrial concentration and uses of land - because we cannot have urban plans that make twenty-five years and thirty years, obviously the arbitrary and paradoxical economy - and, of course, the operation of a register on waste, for producers, forest maps, which will also organise livestock and agriculture, so that the environment is a productive force and not to suspend production, but to fuel work. That is the word that characterizes 2017. Return to work, return to the pretext, return to the rule of law. This budget supports this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and three educational attendances from the 6th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary spokesman for the River Mr George Mavrotas has the floor, and then you, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. It is the fourth day of debate on the budget and let me start with something procedural. We're making a mistake. The title needs to be changed. It is not a budget debate, it is a budget criticism. Because when we discuss parliamentary procedures, we usually mean that you can intervene, suggest, make corrections. Just here in five days and so many more in the committees, the MPs are trying to praise him and the opposition to dismantle him. In other countries budgeting is an interactive process, which may last for months, during which government and opposition crosses their swords in almost every budget code. Here we compare just with last year's, while the right thing would be with political planning, with strategic planning per ministry, which we do not do. On Saturday night, therefore, it will be voted on, on Monday the allocation of appropriations will be published, and on Tuesday the ministers will start making reallocations of appropriations so that what will ultimately be implemented does not have much to do with what will be voted on. This is a practice not in recent years, but many years now. Have we ever done a serious account, so we can see what is finally being voted on? It's the budget in about. We're his country about. Let's go to that budget. The Parliamentary Budget Office describes it as a short-term material. The bad news is that in Greece the short-term wins the long-term. On page 20, the Government states that, following its actions, the first assessment was closed and, firstly, the smooth financing of the economy was ensured, secondly, positive expectations were created in the real economy, due to political stability, thirdly, the conditions were created for the recovery by the European Central Bank of the eligibility of Greek bonds and, fourthly, the provision of liquidity to the real economy was agreed, through the payment of outstanding public debts. However, it does not say that, on its own responsibility, all of this was lost in 2015, such as the profits from bonds held by central banks, ANFAs and SMPs, which were to collect 1.6 billion in 2016 - so much that was registered in last year's budget - and ultimately we get 375 million and only 345 million were registered for 2017. The others went tuition for the most expensive lesson "game theory" in the history of humanity. In short, the government shows as a feat that it is going to overthrow the destruction it caused in 2015. He crashed the car drunk on the wall and celebrated now that he found cheap spare parts. But credibility is something that can hardly be recovered. The sooner she leaves, the harder she returns, and that's why we're entering each other in the negotiations, in the bazaars. We're asked for ten so we can do five. Let's go back to the budget. The aim of each budget is to share specific resources - who is to read it on revenue - in activities - what we read it on costs - so as to optimise the benefit to the citizens of the country. This function of benefit is very difficult to identify objectively, so we resort to subjective preferences and set priorities. However, it would be advisable in these priorities to have a dialogue, a convergence, not necessarily a match. Budget revenue comes from taxes, direct and indirect. The direct ones are about income and property, the indirect ones about consumption. Indirect taxes are, in other words, the most unfair, in that they are common to all, regardless of their standard of living. The proportion, therefore, indirect to direct taxes has increased in this budget. In other words, unfair taxes have increased. The excuse that has been heard and heard - and it is presented on page 62 of the report - that this ratio was worse in 2007 to 2011 is not true, because then there were no HPAI, which is 3 billion, i.e. 1/6 of the direct taxes. But let us look at five, six very specific things from this budget. Let's start from education, an area I know well. Therefore, for the ticket examinations, the sum of EUR 11 million has been budgeted. In 2015, a single million euro was spent. In 2016 the estimate is for something less than EUR 2 million. So how does the number get more than five times the number? Aren't the same students, anyway, the same number? The same was done in the last year's budget. So the picture is that these numbers are getting into luck or are being transferred with the funds from one code to another. On the basis of expenditure on primary, secondary and tertiary education - we heard Mr Gavroglou, the Minister - there is an increase over last year of 7.6%, 1.7% and 4.1% respectively for primary, secondary and tertiary education. Yes, more money is needed for education and we hope they will catch a place, along with the necessary 'home'. In tertiary education we see a significant increase in the remuneration line - around EUR 40 million in excess - which corresponds to almost two thousand new appointments. The Government had promised five hundred new positions in LAGs. It would be advisable for the government to enlighten us what the extra money will be, what additional positions have arisen. New assignments? Where? How? No, I hope you're in personal positions. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget amounts must reflect policies, the government's strategic targeting, as expressed in the draft budget report. But let's see how many words match the numbers. On page 44 of the report, in the government's strategy for education, it states - and rightly so - that 'Strengthening the role of the quality assurance and certification authority for higher education, the PPP'. We go to the budget and see in the corresponding budget a 33% reduction compared with last year. Is that the support you mean? Finally, we welcome the increase in research funds. However, we see only two research centres in the budget, which are legal entities governed by public law, the Observatory and the CONTROL. The other research centres, which are legal entities governed by public law, are not detailed and are one question why. Continuing the evacuation, if we go to health, I was struck by a fall in the national coordinator's budget for the treatment of narcotic drugs by 27%. And you're saying we've solved the drug problem? Also, in the report, on page 109, OAED appears to have a surplus of EUR 177 million in 2017. How can such an agency have a surplus when unemployment is the number one problem in the country? Why don't we extend his actions and programmes if there's money? More about unemployment, however, I will say at the end. Let's go to the Treasury, let's see how much the words match the numbers. We say that number one priority is combating tax evasion. Good. But what do we do about it? We reduce the funds of the IMO from 5.1 million in 2016 to 3.5 in 2017. Also, again from the Ministry of Finance, from the corresponding table, it is stated in the budget that for the political offices only of the Vice-President of the Government and of the Ministries of State, we give EUR 1.8 million. For five political offices we give EUR 1.8 million, more than we give for the two research centres, which I mentioned earlier, the Observatory and the ELDR, which are together with the two 1,5 million euros. Are these priorities? Even social spending has barely been saved as a social income of solidarity. EUR 760 million is no other than the minimum guaranteed income, which after abomination you renounced as opposition in the first few months of governance as a lasting neoliberal measure. What Greeks are experiencing today is Scandinavian taxes, which correspond to Balkans, not to say to African, services. What's wrong? We asked a question this summer in all the ministries about which bodies they supervise. Eleven of the fifteen ministries, the two, in fact, were responded to and with incomplete evidence. So there are two things: or they despise the parliamentary procedures, or they do not know what to say about which bodies they supervise. Honestly, I don't know which one is worse. Of this, it is clear that the state needs to be modernised, reformed, to play its real role. However, many in the medium term earn and lose few in the short term. The few, however, usually have access to power and their voice is louder. That's why the reforms in Greece usually are incarnated, because for some people it's meant to be stumbling. Without devotion to one another, however, the pathogens cannot be corrected and the main pathogens are the adequacy created by the client state. I know I'm tired of you with my persistence in the client's state, but I think it's the source of our pathogens. When I speak to the government or governments, so as not to be unfair - I am not only referring to the SYRIZA Government - to the fight against the customer state, I feel like I am talking to tobacco manufacturers to combat smoking. Perhaps the latter are even more sensitive. And we are talking about a vote and a client state, let me refer to the Prime Minister's announcement yesterday. To suspend the increase in VAT in the tested islands, I understand that. We proposed it as a river too. They have suffered the great burden of the refugee, and if we can, let us relieve them. For the thirteenth pension, however, to the low pensioners, who are not a thirteenth pension, as you say misleadingly, but an exceptional allowance, let me say the following about priorities and sensitivity: Yeah, low pensioners need help. I have in my environment, too, and I know. If this is the priority, however, the allocation is unfair. The pensioner of EUR 850 - and one question is how this figure of EUR 850 came out - and he will not get the EUR 860, which may have suffered a higher cut in his pensions. At the same time, will the incomes not be taken into account? But the important thing is another. A low-retirementist of at least 800 euros gets some money home. Maybe it's a little. Do not forget, however, that these pensions are financed by wages may even of EUR 580, which is even less. Well, a little bit, but they're getting some money into the bill every month. But a job doesn't even get into euros. If there is a category of people who need priority assistance, then they are the unemployed. The 617 million could grant a hundred thousand jobs for a year to 500 euros a month. Less votes, of course, than a million six hundred thousand but greater relief for the tested society as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Back to the budget and closed, Mr President. The budget shows an economic policy. The economic policy that the country needs is a low-tax policy, an investment facility, in order to hit unemployment and the utilization of the public sector through pluralism, to start producing the country. The modern "freedom or death" for Greece must become "production or death". The priority is, therefore, to produce wealth so that we can support a serious social state and not share our poverty. These features we need. I shall be voting in favour of the budget and any budget that has these characteristics. This one, I'm sorry, doesn't have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. This debate on the 2017 budget is taking place, the truth is, at a critical time. And the text of the budget submitted by the government shows, quite optimisticly, the objectives to be achieved, which, in order to be implemented, need to attract investment and strengthen competition, precisely the policy that the government is fighting or at least a part of it. We sincerely hope that SYRIZA is slowly surpassing its ideological strangles and really realizes that investment is necessary for our country. Infrastructures and the construction sector can play a key role. We all know that for every 1 euro spent on construction, 1.8 euros are added to the country's GDP. That is why you will allow me to focus on my speech on infrastructure projects. However, before we go into these matters, let me make a small reference to another topical issue in the field of transport. It is an issue that particularly troubles both the citizens of Athens and the citizens of Thessaloniki in their daily lives. And what they are experiencing is a very great suffering, a small odyssey, because urban transport, unfortunately, is in a dead end today. Because the government first with inspiration, such as the memorable 'everyone free' a few days before the referendum and then, with the complete lack of a plan, has caused, the truth is, a chaos in the middle of a fixed track, which let us not forget that before the 2015 elections there were reserves of over 20 million euros, and today day-to-day job stops are a reality. In buses and trolleyes the routes are reduced, as well as in-service vehicles are reduced. In the center of town vandalism in machinery and vehicles now take uncontrolled proportions. Moreover, the selling points of tickets from about four thousand, which were in 2011, are today a thousand percent. That's why I think it's right for someone to talk about a little odyssey. Unfortunately, problems are not limited to Athens alone. It is also in the co-chair of Thessaloniki, where, with the problems of OSTH and the constant strikes that are taking place there, many major problems arise in a town that does not have a metro. It is time, then, for the government and the Minister, who refuses dialogue with the administration and the workers of urban transport, to understand that he must do so. Why are they paying for all this mess? Those who move on a daily basis through public transport, that is, those who most need, the non-preferential ones. And is that not the Left's privilege? Is that not the prerogative of a government, which claims to support the interests of the non-preferentials? So let us also come to infrastructure. I wonder on many occasions what the so-called'student work' and not any work of substance, which Mr Spirtz mentioned very often. Is it Ionian Street, Olympia Street, E65? Because these major projects are the projects that are expected to be given to the circulation in 2017, projects that started in 2008 and which would have been completed, the truth is, much earlier, if they had not stopped in the first half of 2015, when SYRIZA had not matured, when Mr.Tsipras told us about his negotiating cowardice and which then your competitor, Mr. Varoufakis, led to the Capital Controls, the state pay stop and the collapse of the inputs from the NSRF. The problem, however, in public works has to do with this ideological approach to investment and to boost competitiveness. Unfortunately, we have also seen it through the law passed in August, L.4412. Since then, many here in this Chamber and especially Members of the New Democracy, have pointed out that despite the positive effects of the law, it is being distorted and that the tenders will be frozen. Since the beginning of September, the contracting authorities have not been aware of what is the case. The result is to stop the auction procedures and ultimately harm the public interest. And you may then accuse us of dangers, but unfortunately today, reality confirms us. The worst performance in the last 15 years has been the production of new public works this year. The picture in large projects is disappointing, as only three contractors over fifty million euros have been auctioned. And what are these? The well-known and unexplained work of Patras - Tower, a work that we either like or not, the government found it ready by tender and guaranteed funding. So what did you do? You carried out this work in eight pieces and in fact, for twenty-two months only three sections have been auctioned and the contract has not even been signed. The Minister argued that it was to strengthen healthy competition, but we know that in the end the first three sections went to Mr. Kalogritsa's well-known company. But let me tell you something else: the government celebrates major discounts, but we all know that these contractors are not often completed and the so-called supplementary contracts are finally signed, and finally the time for completion of projects is escalating and increasing costs. I would remind you of something Mr. Spirtzis said that he was the President of the TEI in the committee in 2013. 'A state' - said quite rightly then - 'which respects itself cannot accept so many large discounts'. Many of you have spoken of combined transport. It is a pity that you come and recognize what we started in 2008 when we invited 'COSCO' to make one of the biggest investments, but then both PASOK and Mr Papandreou and, unfortunately, the current Prime Minister were against this big deal. As for the Greek, we all remember the revolts and we all see the revolts of this investment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final phase of the completion of major infrastructure projects. I think it is time to take a step and see what new infrastructure we are going to propose for the future. This should be a field of understanding between the political world of the country, whatever party it is, whatever party it may be. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all understand that the age of ribbon cutting is long over, and that is because public works do not belong to any government, to no Minister, to no minister, to no party, but belong to the people of this country, because it is simply those works that someone else is planning, and they are being auctioned, others are signing the conventions and others are cutting off the ribbons. So it's time to see the "we" rather than the "me". In Greece, therefore, it is of little importance who starts the project and who implements it. It's important to finish on time. So make a decision on the part of all the government's gentlemen at the last hour to turn to free economy and competition and get away from the government and we too, from old-fashioned logics that do not lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Xydakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been pointed out that there is a debate on the budget in an unfavourable historical environment for both our country and on a worrying course in Europe, but also in the United States, on an unknown path, on new atrocities, but our job is to discuss and, above all, to act. The budget, as has already been described by the rapporteurs and other colleagues, is an emergency budget, but it is also a budget that has a political seal. It has the will, the desire of this government, the left government, to be countercyclical, not to deepen the real phenomena, to try to ease them, and above all to take care of society, to take care of social cohesion, to defend the weakest, the most affected. The Eukleidis Tsakalotou's proposal on surpluses, the proposal that has been put to the table and has not been answered, but we believe that a response will be given, in other words, to 1% of the surplus of 3.5% which is predicted and to be given as an incentive for the production, the economy, the free professions, the small and medium-sized enterprises, I think that it shows not only the countercyclicality of the government's economic planning, not only the founding concern for social cohesion and social justice, but also the measure of pragmatism, realism, how the Left understands the real economy and how it is in front of the real questions. In this regard, as far as possible, we should also include the Prime Minister's yesterday's announcement. The reduction in VAT on the affected islands of the Eastern Aegean was a measure that we should probably have taken from last year. We knew the problems. We have not been able to proceed with the negotiation because you do not have a rationale, but an obsession theology, a fundamentalism. However, it is a perfectly fair measure. And I think there will be no voice from any of Parliament's wings to question it. In the same way, I think, from this over-performance of revenue, that EUR 600 million should be allocated to alleviating low-pension pensioners, I believe that it is not just a humanitarian incentive, but also an honesty to those people who have seen their little pension being curtailed, but also a direct understanding of this suffocating market. They will drop 600m euros next month in this market. The businessmen are already hailing it. They're neither symmetrical nor left-wing. But they are not unrealistic. They are not overwhelmed by the frustration and irrationality of some opposition. The President of the Association of Tourism Enterprises, Mr. Andreades, last night, welcomed it. All merchants understand what's going to happen. It is money that will immediately be absorbed from the market, give a boost and create a more favourable climate. I do not think it is possible to do so, and with documentation, to say that these are the pre-election measures. They are neither permanent nor change the flow of events. They give a relief to the world and, above all, give the symbolic and practical message that this government, this faction is adjacent to the world of work, it is next to society, trying, with all its powers, to remove the conditions of social exclusion and social injustice. But let us also get into the budget and on the basis of what has been done last year and a year and a half. I would like to stay in two areas where it seems clear when a government makes political choices. I believe that in both fields, where we can well see the political stigma of SYRIZA, it is education and health. They are the two most important areas in which democracy is being tested. That is where the citizen will see equilibrium, equality, social justice. In education, I have to say this, which colleagues from the Step: In every three years the OECD PISA measure has been established that Greeks have problems with understanding matter and basic concepts. I think that the changes that Nikos Philis started to promote at the Ministry of Education - which were not spectacular and which are usually heard - were changes at the core of compulsory education, at elementary education, at the lifting of the exam-centric way of high school and in the stimulus of learning as joy, as participation, as a practice and not a pathway of ongoing examinations. These have little to say in Parliament and the press. They have, of course, been pointed out by the good-faithed teachers, who have welcomed all these measures with real relief and sometimes with surprise. Political choice is to place emphasis on special education school, not to leave children with disabilities outside society. And that's what was done by the government. Political choice is to rebuild the professional high school so you don't leave the kids out of society who won't go to college. This is a political choice. That's a democracy. Political choice is to put two and a half million uninsured at primary care. This is a society, it is a quarter of the Greek population. There too, there were battles to find resources, to streamline the system, to find European funds, to reform the budget and - an element that the Deputy Minister of Health said yesterday - for the first time the EEAY to return revenues, 530 million, to the National Health System. We must also ask ourselves about that. The fact that a good, virtuous and mostly enlightened democratic rule produces and revenues, produces wealth and returns it to society. I think that this is the great line of government and in this budget of need these political plans are seen, as are care, so that every area of public administration, every area of public life can be productive, be able to support real society, serve the citizen. And one last thing. There is a competition often - in Parliament and in other public fora - about who manages misery better and even on the ground of a divisive and arsonist speech, a climate of division. I think the last thing that the country needs in this historic adventure and this historic transformation is a barren division, a reason for hatred. What society needs - and the political system, in other words, the elected, not the professionals - is to show courage and raisins, windows. To go to a change, for example, to remember old virtues, even philosophical examples, such as the example of foxes and porcupines that the poet Archilus said. The fox knows a lot of things, the porcupine knows only one important one. I think that the historic juncture requires us to be foxes throughout practical life, in all our actions and movements, to be adaptive to reality and to porcupines on one thing, the moral attitude to society, the moral attitude to political life. There, yeah, it's a great thing. They're clinging to one. In this direction, too, we must seek to provoke the least possible but necessary consensus on the major national and historical problems. We have the Cyprus issue in front of us. The debate should take place with great seriousness, with wisdom and sobriety, and seek compositions and consents. Our attitude to the Aegean against Erdogan's aggression requires seriousness, sobriety, wisdom and essential patrioticism, neither demagogy nor patriocacadia. It requires seriousness and sobriety against history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u274	Twenty seconds, Mr. President. Long story knocks on the door. We can't knead right and left. In the year that we are closing, with the budget, but also with the difficult year that comes, I think that with these difficult, but absolutely necessary qualities and virtues, we must move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u275	Mr Koumoutsakos has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that the National Representation is discussing is a budget for the extension of misery. And this does not change with the return of part only of those who have multiplely taken from the weak and the retired for the past two years. I would remind you that when the Samara Government gave 500 million social dividends - you give 600 million - at a time when it had reduced the solidarity levy by 30%, which had reduced the tax on heating oil, which had reduced VAT on the focus, that is, when it had reduced taxation, then your leader from Ioannina was talking about an act of shame. If, then, it was a shameful act of 500 million with a reduction in taxation, 600 million with a slaughtering tax what is it? It's a new deception plan that's been in place since yesterday. A plan to defraud the pensioners, the weak, the Greek people, the Greek economy and that is the real shame, because it shows you do not learn. When will you try to cheat? But this year's budget is also a budget for the alignment of hope. This confirmed the last Eurogroup. Even tougher measures, an evaluation that has not been closed in the name of small improvements to public debt. But it is also a budget for certifying the inappropriateness, the inability of this government to manage all the major issues in the country's economy, in refugees and recently in foreign policy, in national matters. You will allow me to refer a little more to foreign policy, because the National Representation and, more generally, Greece does not have the luxury of not having a serious and sober discussion of foreign policy and security issues. I have heard Mr Phillips say beforehand that the political forces are not talking about developments in Cyprus in view of serious events. Who are you addressing, Mr. Philly? Obviously, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Kotzias, is the recipient of your instigation. To him you suggest, to him you dictate what to do, not to the Opposition. Because we have the information we have from the Cypriot side official and obvious, but not from Greece, despite the fact that we have repeatedly called for the National Foreign Policy Council to be convened. Why are we asking? To be held in that context, away from the publicity lights, a substantial and sober discussion on major foreign policy issues in the country. And no one understands why that's not happening. We receive a persistent and incomprehensible refusal. Therefore, if there is no dialogue, Mr. Philly, you must bear in mind your Government. No one else. The issue of days, of course, ladies and gentlemen, is Turkey and its attitude over the last year. Continuing statements, provocative, revisionative and problematic, whether they concern the revision of the Treaty of Lausanne or the Cyprus flag, which Mr Erdogan does not actually accept, and thus offends it, they also speak of a possible annexation of the occupied part, of the heart borders of Mr Erdogan - the borders of his heart, which are obviously going far beyond the current borders of Turkey - and we have, of course, the reintroduction of the issue of the so-called 'grey zones' and its question there of Greek sovereignty. Attention! Here's something new, something new. For the first time since 1996, for the first time since the Imperial Government and opposition incident in Turkey, they have been publicly discussing and questioning the sovereignty of our country. The issues of questioning Greek rights and rights come with force in the internal political dialogue and in Turkey's party conflict. This is very worrying, which we must very seriously assess, because it forms an escalation of positions and presupposes the Turkish public as well in the direction of integration. At the same time, there is Turkey and a vile arms market, an increase in defence spending, a large market in armaments. Why is this all happening? Why is there this critical mass of such movements in Turkey? One logic is the one I hear often, that it is for internal consumption or is addressed internally. That's one reading. Of course, there are internal reasons. Mr Erdogan wants additional powers as President and needs nationalists to support him in the House. At the same time, he wants to weaken the Cemal heritage and of course wants to see Turkey in 2023, as he has said, not just regional power, but a state of 'global range and radiation'. But it is not just internal reasons. Mr Erdogan clearly sends messages seriously abroad too. This is mainly related to developments at its southern border. He presses at the same time for the Cyprus issue, he presses Greece. And attention is being drawn to a situation that is extremely worrying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will ask for your understanding. Four factors are accumulated that indicate that this escalation can continue and increase. The first factor is that unacceptable demands and claims have been made - as I have said - part of the internal political debate in Turkey. And this is dangerous because it creates conditions for greater intensity and escalation. Secondly, a dramatic development in Turkey's relations - the European Union. Turkey's European perspective is in a coma, and it is not going to come out quickly, and that is a negative development. And thirdly, the situation in the Turkish Armed Forces after his coup and repression. Thousands of officers are down. What does that mean for the authority and morality of the Turkish army? Have professional and experienced officers been lost? And how will the least experienced react? And one last. All this happens in the mediation interval in the only country that could in any form of tension, intervene in the region, in the United States. For many months now, and for at least three or four months, we will be in this space between two presidencies. What does all this mean? What can happen? And the government rather than going ahead with in-depth serious moves of constant, inconsistent, exhaustive information for partners and allies about what is going on, what is our interpretation of Turkey's movements and what we are asking for from our allies, is resorting - and this is regrettable - to moves designed, but to moves of reflexive behaviour, movements of cheap impression and shallow communication. This is a behavior that can prove particularly dangerous. That's the situation. At the same time, the foreign ministry's budget is being cut dramatically. It increases by what compared to last year, but in all previous years, the reduction in the budget is really spectacular. There are 276 million of them, 6 million of which are public debt credits, and around 25% are ruthless international obligations in the country. However, with about 220m euros you cannot exercise foreign policy in these circumstances, in these times. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, use as a government the feeling of all the Greeks that against the challenges - when they grow even at the rate and the spectacular intensity of the last few days - the Greek people are united. That's a very serious power element. But I don't know if you can do it. Because the legacy you have shaped, all your previous state, is a state of polarization and division of the Greek people. You never could consciously serve the unity of the nation. You have never been able to consciously serve national unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u277	Don't say heavy talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u278	Please! I'm not taking any interruptions. Until yesterday, you broke up with mixes, traitors, german germans and other unacceptables.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u279	Except '42.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Manier, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u281	You did this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u282	In '42 we joined Greece, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u283	You are the people who have strongened national unity. And now that the country needs it, you've poisoned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u284	Let go of the ethnocalyst.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u285	Apologise for everything you have said all this time to all the groups of Parliament and the National Representation. I'm sorry you keep doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u286	Let go of the ethnocalyst.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u287	Now it's not about national unity to fight! We're all fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u288	That's what you knew, that's what you know, that's what you do. The time of national unity is ahead of us, and there is only one party that has served it since the first day of its establishment. This is the party that will soon be the new government of the country. It's the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. SYRIZA's colleague, Mr. Ioannis Karayannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u290	The Moon's rebels!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u291	You have deep memory, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u292	I've got too deep. All the 20th and 21st century.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u293	You don't think about the recent, though. Remember what you were saying two years ago. Shame on you to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u294	I didn't think about it? You're talking about it now, Mr. Kumucako. Now you've found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Karayannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is, among other things, a dynamic and evolving relationship. It combines the restrictions in the past, with the government's economic decisions for the present and the future. Decisions should aim at macroeconomic stability, strengthening development and social protection. As far as the restrictions are concerned, they are reflected in the time-consuming sufferings of the Greek economy, the causes of the crisis and the Memorandumary Obligations that have led us to the policies of the previous governments. When the Greek economy in times of growth in the years to come produced deficits instead of surpluses, it is impossible to invoke the Kenyan policy to increase state expenditure within the crisis. We are well aware of this by those who are currently indicting us for a social policy deficit, as they also know that these surpluses are intended, according to Kanes, to cover higher costs in times of crisis. Under these restrictions, the Government is invited to make its decisions on the 2017 budget. This means an effort to balance between immediate needs and short-term objectives. That balance shall be sufficiently reflected in that plan. The 2017 budget, on the basis of costs per Ministry and decentralised administration, creates the conditions for stabilisation, productive reconstruction and support for social policy. Support for the agri-food sector, the main pillar of productive reconstruction, will make a significant contribution to the country's level of self-sufficiency in food and will reduce the gap in trade balance. The extroversion of the Greek economy will help innovative businesses and industries with integrated high technology. At the same time, the conditions are being created for a stable, competitive and simplified investment environment, aimed at attracting direct foreign investment and developing international cooperation and partnerships. We should, however, further improve the relationship between risk and reward, because the risk remains high for long-term investors. Modernising public administration, stable tax, transparency in public procurement, simplification of investment processes, new financial instruments and organised investment effort will make a significant contribution to changing the country's investment climate. The recent positive outcome on the debt issue should coincide with direct structural and institutional reforms that improve productivity, international competitiveness and growth. The apparent short-term stimulus of demand should target population groups with the greatest needs, because there is always a risk, due to the imbalances in the Greek economy, to feed back the vicious cycle of deficits and recession. Thus, it was right that the Prime Minister, in his yesterday's order, made it possible to strengthen vulnerable social groups particularly affected by the crisis and the refugee. But the way to recovery is long and painful. The effort to combat tax evasion and corruption should be strengthened, as should the reorganisation of the public sector. At the same time, to address directly the big issue of red business loans and to support entrepreneurship. They are complementary measures and not substitutes for the effort to stimulate demand and to support citizens in today's difficult times. But in order to achieve reforms and ensure overall prosperity, social cooperation and cohesion are needed. Statistical studies show the positive correlation between social cohesion and the quality of institutions on the one hand and systematic development and economic equality on the other. The 2017 budget respects the above principles and follows rationally the existing restrictions. Finally, we must not forget that crises always involve the possibility of something new. It is up to us to take this opportunity away from micro-party logic and purpose. The exit from the crisis is a national case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Tassoulas has the floor, and the fourteenth cycle will be closed with Minister Vitsa. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, after two years, there will be an autopsy in the 2017 budget, when this House or the next Parliament will vote on the 2017 report. And then we will be able, as always, to judge both its ambitious unrealistic intentions and the real results of the policy that this government has put forward to implement in 2017. Now we are in a field of predictions, a field of persuasion, either opposition or coalition. The reality, however, is that this budget is also voted under the depressing shadow of worsening the country's situation. And does the advent of the deterioration seem to stimulate the last argument, the last argument in favour of their disposition or their efforts, which he hears in the words "twenty months, twenty-two months, twenty-four months, twenty-four months SYRIZA troubled and shocked the country and not for forty-year neoliberal policy of the establishment or the interlocutory, or any other pitiful one can imagine? You know, this argument - which is said by part of the audience, a part of the Greek people defending in the last analysis the vote it gave two years ago by saying 'why were the others better'? - It's a poor, malicious argument. The people, when they vote, vote for the best. He's not voting to be as bad as anybody else. When we come to say that we are the same as you, you must admit that it is neither optimistic, flattering, nor an encouraging argument. The next defense in this argument is to give up the weapons completely. The country's situation has not yet been diagnosed by the majority of the government. And it hasn't happened yet, I have to say, from part of society. The diagnosis, however, is the one that recommends half the treatment. When we even say today that diagnosis says the country went bankrupt because it followed neoliberal recipes, we are out of reality. The country, mainly after 1981, has been subjected to an imperceptive, monstrous, beastly populism in a beastly stature. And this state had no end, despite the country's impact in May 2010 on a rock, which led to substantial bankruptcy. Fortunately, we were in Europe and from the perpetrators, Europe built a mechanism that was clumsy, clumsy, but built a mechanism and did not de jure bankruptcy. He did not fail any neoliberal program. He failed a state-of-the-art, populist, client system, which was not even a creation - the last - of postmultimatisation, but was a creation of the time that followed by the liberation of the modern Greek state. Others are the reasons and they are not now to be explained. This system in its collapse created such a complaint, such anger, such an indignation, such confusion, that parties that the people, who according to Mr Tsipras - and curiously I agree with him - do not eat spoon, parties that the people have had to the margin for decades, such as SYRIZA or the Golden Dawn, raised them on the surface. Not because he thought that we had a treasure here, which we had not taken, and we need this treasure to show him up and give him the political potential to govern the country, but because he thought through the anger, the sorrow, the confusion, the indignation, the indignation, that he must punish and avenge for all this uproar, for all that difficulty he has experienced. Evidently these years in the forty years of the Transition have not only had subjection to populism or stateism. We also had a stunning rise in the standard of living, which is indeed due to the strengthening of consumption and not to the strengthening of investment, but we also had a form of development that was scary in the country, unprecedented for Greece's data. We had the good and bad sides. Evils prevailed and led the country to the cliff. Now, the correction of this situation is not by saying to end the other half or end the other half, or we or they, or they, and they are traitors, and we are good, they are bad and we are good, we philosophers and the other open-airs and all these surfaces. We ignored the political cost, took on the serious responsibilities we had for the collapse of the country and tried to sort things out. And things got all mixed up. A comparison between the end of autumn or the end of winter 2014 with the current situation shows where we arrived. It shows it, because today the deterioration is dramatic. And this deterioration is not forgiven by invoking the reductions made by the previous government to pensions or by invoking the measures taken. These reductions, which have indeed been made, are those pensions, which have actually been reduced, these incomes, which have actually been cut, this unemployment which has actually increased was the price, the most serious price to face up to the exit from the crisis. To say now that what we are imposing is less or more or more liked than what you have imposed on the Greek people, ignores that we do not compare the hardships imposed on the Greek people to ensure that the twenty-month hardships are less than the forty-month hardships. We need to understand that the hardships of the period 2012-2014 had an impact and your hardships blown the impact that the Greek people had had to bear on the air and now had to pay the expensive tuition fees of your own learning or your own contact with the reality that the Greek people would pay them again. Here we are today. This budget, therefore, with the taxes of 2,5 billion and the new cuts that are being made in this programme too, is not helping the country to get out of the crisis in an unrealistic situation for the modern world and the modern Europe. Your efforts, your illusions, your failures brought a new memorandum, new taxes, new austerity. We, who have corrected and understood our mistakes and our failures, propose three self-evident things to get out of the crisis, oriented by what all the modern countries, all Europe and all those who came out of memoranda. We are proposing a reduction in taxation and a reduction in government expenditure, we are proposing modernisation of the state and we are proposing a power of the economy's liquidity. We're very different. You are oriented to yesterday, you are a result of the hardship of the Greek people, of anger, anger, indignation, you are not something that has been voted positively. I do not agree with those who say that you misled the Greek people. You didn't mislead anyone. Because no one believed you. We were punished. I'm so strict with myself, so strict with my party. And it is in your favor that no one asks you the change, because no one believed what you were saying. The people pulled out their ears. From now on, the people must look at their future. The New Democracy makes it easier for it and proposes a way out of the crisis and does not propose any grief, neither deceased nor vengeance. It proposes growth, unity, consensus, prerogatives and common sense. That is why your budget must meet our refusal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Greece has been visited for serious discussions in recent years by President Obama, President Putin, Chancellor Merkel, President Olad. A short time ago the Conference of Presidents of the Mediterranean countries, South Europe, took place in Athens. In Rhodes a while ago, the meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Mediterranean and the Far East took place and Greece plays a leading role in the formation of an arc of stability on the one hand and peace on the other hand in the Mediterranean with Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Jordan and, of course, Cyprus. Now, in all of this, how can one say that we are making a failed foreign policy, it is worth wondering if we see how Greece was treated two years ago and how it is now being dealt with. The second thing I mean is a very simple thing. The country's GDP in 2010 was around 225 billion euros. The country's GDP in 2014, 2015, 2016 is around 175 to 177 billion euros. Who lost these 50 billion? Can anyone talk about this? Of course the budget is a debate that favours the debate on the figures. But behind the number conversation, there is an effort, trouble hiding, people hiding, hiding pain. And, of course, it is awkward for speakers, who have rotated on the basis of their position on the seats of the House, to use the numbers to prove what they have either brought it from the beginning or brought it from their home. There is, however, a figure which has been slightly - very stable all these years and reflects the country's overall problem. A little - very EUR 320 billion is the public debt in an absolute number and not as a percentage. I fear or, if you will, I know we will come and come back to that number. But we should understand that if we want to talk about national unity and national strategy, then a common conception of the political world must be established, firstly, that this debt is not sustainable and, secondly, that it must be reduced. That is why the last Eurogroup decision is particularly important, and it is even more important if someone is watching - and, please, do so - the ending of instalments and bonds over the next forty-five years. This is where the profit of 42 billion on the one hand and the fixed low interest rates on the other. But the question remains. How did you manage to bring the country into this illusion and much more why did you do that? For me, the answer is, and it's clear. You have bought power political, economic and social policy, as you always know to do. Let me make it clear that neoliberalism has developed as an ideology in the 1980s, so forty years let us reduce it a little, let us make it thirty-thirty-five. What do I mean when I say you know how to do it with the orders that have ruled this place? Today everything is well known. How did the Black Marketers of the Occupation eat the so-called financial aid, apart from the money that has become exile camps for the communists, for the left-wing, for the democrats, for the progressive people? How did the Mediterranean programmes become new money for old and new fireplaces and gardening seminars from English and trade unions? How did the Delore packages become streets and other streets? And in Greece, what is only done is streets. So the 300,000,000 euros. Sooner or later, they became 'democratic acquisition of consciences and element of individual enrichment of the few', not only of those who are in prison. That's how the system was working in the country, that's what you suggest to the Greek people that we return. This Greece, however, has ended, leaving behind the problem that we are called upon to solve in a difficult context of geopolitical instability, a misguided overall economic policy throughout Europe. That's what I mean, a difficult environment. So in this difficult environment we are called upon to solve it and make sure that we resolve it. I'm impressed by the reaction to the Prime Minister's yesterday's announcement. You don't want it to happen? And why don't you want it to happen? Is it a relief for the poorest and at the same time an injection - small? Small - on the domestic market. But what you're really afraid of isn't that, is that these announcements are the practical proof of a political difference. The benefit from labor and pain is redistributed to those who have greater labor, greater pain, or as welcomingly call it, to the weaker. When the country becomes normal - and we are close to it -, when it is able to refinance its reduced debt, then in the way of productive reconstruction of the criteria and incentives, the redistribution and the establishment of the social state in particular, in the areas of society's reproduction, namely education, health, culture and sport, it will seem very clearly between us. And what you understand very well is that this budget and these measures are the beginning of this difference. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] With your permission, Mr President, I shall refer to a number of defence issues in the country. I think there is no slight disagreement that the country's Armed Forces are in a very good situation, ready to respond to their constitutional duty. How we've done this is partially clear, if someone examines the accounting records at the Ministry of National Defence we don't need two years - we have them now - they'll be closed. And it is unprecedented that this budget should be implemented at almost 100%. We will therefore see for every euro of the Greek people whether it has been appropriately exploited to ensure that there is a high level of care and that our infrastructures are adequate and that our equipment corresponds to the needs of responding to every threat. How did we do that with half the money? How did we answer the question of doing more with less? Seven words: interclimateness, availability, education, care, respect, targeting, determination, and this programme we are continuing. If I may - and as long as I may - I will say a few things. Scale: Creating an economy of scale with the common supply of materials, cross-sector integration of transport, maintenance of instruments from existing cross-sectoral structures, improving the common operational image monitoring system and avoiding overlapping of personnel, inter-clining supply of military hospitals, reorganisation of military stations. Availability: Upgrading and maintenance of existing armaments systems, targeted new markets mainly in ammunition, national defence industrial strategy, restructuring and reorganisation of units and camps with full command, timely implementation of transfers, revision of transfers and training of recruits by training to be carried out in the major formations, recovery - activation of all military factories. Education: Concept that education must be interdisciplinary and must be holistic. At the same time, training of our own officials abroad, but also reintroducing the fact of training officers from other countries to us, which gives us many opportunities. Finally, it is well known that military wages are not reduced. On the contrary, we are moving forward, since we have no more money to give, an extensive plan to create settlements for all members of the Armed Forces. We have new services and new clinics in hospitals. We resolve issues relating to the dividend of the Equity Army and reinforce the budget with funds from the MOMCA and the realisation of the land. That is the answer to the previous question. Finally, I would like to mention the contribution of the Armed Forces, as well as the police and port forces, to managing the refugee issue - and not a problem - which is now commemoratingly and internally but also from abroad getting a very good degree, but we continue, we do not give up. Of course, I close with the fact that our social offer continues. It continues, intervening where God’s finger is intervening with theories, to solve such problems. I think that the central thing that needs to be left is what I said at the beginning, that this budget shows the way and the future for a perfect confrontation with the Civic Opposition and the minor Opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Minister. We're entering the fifteenth circle of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Mustafa Mustafa from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the positions of colleagues in the Opposition, I will begin to have a remorse of conscience, an existential problem for my participation in SYRIZA, for my membership with the SYRIZA vote in the 2015 elections and finally for my 40-year-old political action, because, according to our colleagues, the salvation of our country, our society, our economy, our release from the sufferings of the comitology and the memorials was a small step, a hand, so close, and we 'bad' came, the ideologues, the liars and we plunged the country into destruction. The history of our country did not begin with the 2015 elections. We have a forty-year-old post-population period in which both parties dominated, alternating to power and brought our country into this situation. The 2015 elections, the results of these elections are not a laundry, a discharge for those who have ruled for so many years the place and load of all responsibilities, all the burdens on the backs of SYRIZA. The country was driven to a dawn and the leaders are now swinging their fingers, saying 'Get it out of there immediately and now'. And because there is an agonizing effort by the representatives of Anti-Population to catch us up with the retrieval of the populist, the liar, the ideoleptic, the irresponsible, I would like to remind you that as you have history, the Left has its history. I should like to make an outline of our characteristic interventions, proposals and positions in our processed policies in the crossing of Migration. We were a small party and we moved earth and sky, we were doing whole procedures for not taking over the Olympic Games, for social rights, for employment rights, for institutional interventions, for relations with neighbouring countries, for the rationalisation of armaments, for the electoral system. All this was in the microscope of any staffing capacity of our party for constructive criticism, proposals for improvement. We resisted the destruction of funds for the client state, for state-owned capitalism, for benefits to your fellow citizens. Unfortunately, few of these resources were not. At international level, in the framework of the European Left Party, we have fought and fought for a people's Europe rather than for the markets. The results of the 2015 elections are presented as a rather than a natural development, as prevalence of populism, as an instant mistake of our people. By insisting on this fiercely aggressive criticism, with your catastrophe, with the most extreme neoliberal perceptions and policies, currently dominated in Europe and the world, you want to avoid a sincere self-criticism and incriminate society. You want society to fall on your knees and ask for repentance on her mistake, to stubbornly, as we say in Thrace. We won't be stubborn. In fact, at this difficult time we are talking about the budget. But what do we experience in our regions? This year our schools were normally opened, with books and teachers and teachers in their halloween. Our hospital operates despite his problems and with the sacrifice of the workers, but with signs of improvement. Our farmers receive their subsidies in time, although there are fixed problems from the malfunctioning of OPECPE, ELGA and services. We have problems in our region with livestock production, with zoonoses, quarantines and forests, which every one of them puts an obstacle to livestock activity. Neighbourhood with Bulgaria and Turkey, while opening up prospects for us, is currently causing problems for our professionals. But, at the same time, it is also a prospect. On a recent tour in Rhodope with the Deputy Minister of Rural Development, we visited and saw healthy businesses. When we asked these people what kind of grants they took from the state budget and from the various programmes, modestly, without bitterness, they told us that they were little. This entrepreneurship is the concept of private initiative and must be supported, strengthened, and not the other one, which was tested in the 1990s with 62% subsidies, which left deaf to industrial regions. As far as tobacco producers in the region are concerned, several shed crocodile tears. It is a traditional crop that needs to be supported, but it will be supported in a way that will be lawful to the status of the European Union and not with the packages of the Hatzigakis type, which we gave people money to ask them to return after a year or two. Yesterday my constituency MP became a popular criticism of the Prime Minister's visit to Thrace. My colleague disguised the time problems of our region and accused the Prime Minister of not making announcements. Thank God the Prime Minister didn't make announcements, colleagues. With his visit he also marked the development prospects and potential of our region, visiting the port of Alexandroupolis, the TAP pipeline project, the research centre "Athena" in Xanthi, as well as the deficits of the area, visiting the poorest municipality and the most subordinated municipality of Rhodope. Visiting the schools of Xanthi and Rhodope marked the problem of the great leakage from the nine-year-old compulsory education, which the two prefectures of Xanthi and Rhodope have the pan-Hellenic first. And in his speech he stressed the government's will for fair growth, for unseparated growth, for all the inhabitants of Thrace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like for a minute your tolerance, Mr President. You know, in Thrace and old times, and now we have visits from Presidents, Vice-Presidents, of the parties. We're hospitable, they're coming. We have also had important, important executives in the years of bipartisanism, who have been ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, Government Representatives, key members of the party mechanism, years of MPs. I wish that their presence and the announcements of the coming had helped our region escape the last positions of the regions in our country and in Europe. Our tripartite district has recently acquired more MPs. Party executives visit our prefecture are anointed Rhodope Members because they say - listen - listen! - that the county doesn't have a Christian MP. Now how this is consistent with the level of our democracy, with the achievements of Thrace society in the area of coexistence and coexistence, let each one of us judge. It is the populism of the worst kind, the prosecuting that no service in the place offers. It is ignorant of the history and the evolution of our history and our country. The historic Treaty of Lausanne, which solved many of the problems of a wider region after a troubled era, was a solid basis for Thrace, where a culture of coexistence, coexistence, coexistence, mutual respect. People of different origins and religions shared the bitters and joys of life, the difficulties and the advancement of their land. The contribution of the Left to this culture of coexistence, coexistence and coexistence has been decisive. We consider our army to be an honor to the left in this beautiful region of our country. We were and are the cohesive fabric of Thrace's society. Ethnic identity, our religious identity, are data, for that is how our men gave birth to us and raised us up. Our political identity is our choice, it's an acquired identity. We live, act and participate in the commons with our political identity, with the identity of the communist, with the identity of the socialist, the leftist, the classic look and approach, and in this process from the schools that we have passed, from the hardships and difficulties we have learned to say the figs - figs - figs and boats - and we have learned to sing and fight not to separate the world, but to unite the world. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Dimitrios Gassis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again these days a number of Vice-Population MPs, but not all of Anti-Population, gave a theatrical performance that sacrificed the logic and political criticism of party purposes and the communication image. The catastrophe and the zeroing of a budget that one would call, if he only listened to them, a catastrophic and zero budget. We will insist on a serious intervention, a serious presentation of the positions and prospects opened through the budget. In a period of uncertainty in Europe, Greece is returning in a strong way to growth, returning to European and global politics. The success of the Eurogroup of 5 December comes at an important moment for our country. The short-term debt relief measures agreed for Greece are clear that it will improve the economic situation that has stabilised and improved three to three months and restore a climate of economic and social security. It is the first but decisive step to get out of the crisis and to exit the markets and therefore to get our country out of the comitology and the acquisition of its national independence. This proves the sizes of the Greek economy that are constantly improving. The annual growth rate is 1.8% in the third quarter of 2016, surpassing significant economies of the euro area. These essential steps to get out of the crisis, along with the realisation of the realistic goals that we set for the primary surplus for 2016 and which has been achieved, but also the significant increase in state revenues, today enables us to support the most weak social groups in the population with measures of social justice. The announcements made by our Prime Minister to suspend, among other things, the increase in VAT rates on the islands, which are more severely confronted with the consequences of the refugee influx, are a decision of responsibility and consistency towards the islands of the East Aegean, against the Greek locusts and we will apply it as much as this refugee crisis is halved. It is an obligation of the whole of Europe. It is a measure that will significantly relieve local communities. This move is an essential step towards highlighting the determination with which we are striving to gain meaning and substance to the expectations of islanders for a better tomorrow. We insist on keeping him as a core of hope for the overall return of VAT rates where we have difficulty and need to abolish them. The announcement of an integrated development plan for island policy to be announced by the Prime Minister himself will shortly be followed. All these measures were considered to be pre-election content and electoral feasibility. However, the opposition has learned to do so, in other words, when some positive elements of economic development are announced, that they must be accompanied by elections, so that they can intercept the Greek people's vote. Yesterday the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Haritsis, also announced the establishment of two special development programmes, starting from the two Aegean regions, the Aegean islands, in cooperation with the self-government authorities and the productive bodies, to co-ordinate these specific programmes. So we put an end to the cries of isolation, marginalisation and zeroing, which accompanied a great problem and sacrificing even the purposes of the refugee crisis, tried to alter, alter local communities and enrich them with fascist elements, so that it could prevail again in the forefront. These are not election announcements, they are the Left's perspective of social problems. Otherwise, as I said, the New Democracy has become accustomed to it. That is the message the government sends today from the budget debate. I would like, for example, to testify to the controversy of the positioning of Officerial Opposition against reality. Just talk about doctors. One of the measures announced by the Prime Minister yesterday was that five thousand doctors and nurses will be recruited immediately. That again tried to zero as a prospect. I would like to say, however, that there are incentives, these great motives, which have long been insisted on being given so that agricultural and multi-valve medicine can be served on the islands and which have been institutionalised for some time, but have not been heard at all. Firstly, the assistant doctors in hospitals and multi-powered doctors on the islands are appointed by a three-year term, which can be doubled. The earnings of these doctors reach 2,000 more than that, since they can do so - there are problems - all the seven on-calls they are entitled to. Farm doctors serving in the barren regional hospitals of the remote islands are paid off their wages and on-calls, with an additional EUR 850, which are incentives from the Ministry of Health, as well as from the South Aegean Region. A final salary of more than 2 thousand euros, resulting in traffic, availability and choice for young doctors to declare their participation in rural areas. The pre-service is also five times more for rural doctors when judged in permanent posts, while for qualified doctors, who go to the barren islands, it is seven times more. So we are putting an end to these marginalised voices who want to exploit a situation that has recently been created on the islands. We have shown, ladies and gentlemen, resistance to unfavourable developments, as well as to uncertainties relating to the global environment. We have also managed to face major challenges at political and economic level of times, such as the refugee problem. We will move forward with a new model of sustainable development with outward-looking actions, with an emphasis on innovation, with the aim of reducing regional disparities and, above all, the deterioration of small and medium-sized enterprises to increase competitiveness. We are aware of the reality and the problems that need to be solved. We have new challenges ahead of us, firstly the closure of the assessment that will improve the economic climate and pave the way for integration into quantitative relaxation. Ladies and gentlemen, the expectations of our fellow citizens are great, and we should get rid of all the opportunities. And in cooperation with society, we'll make it. We are historically obliged to meet these challenges of modern times. 2017 is characterised by a large and difficult complexity at national and global level. Addressing these important challenges requires if not supporting the opposition, at least one serious thing on its part, away from populism and from the passions of the past that we have just relied on here. Your plan to return to the past is disastrous. The sooner you leave it, the better it will be for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Minister Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. The 2017 budget and the course of negotiation and the completion of the second assessment clearly reflect the failure of government policy. At the time when the dues of private individuals to the public touch the 94 billion euros and the public to the public about 7 billion euros, a new impact on household income brings the 2017 budget. It brings tax-free cuts, brings higher taxes on income, higher contributions to insured persons, more charges on agricultural income, while farmers' products are left unclaimed, unavoidable in warehouses, which wheat and rice have prices below costs. And at this point the government has chosen to make the farmers even more burdened with new measures. Heavy taxes and unfair taxes also bring indirect taxes, fuel increases, coffee that will be very bitter from the new year, cigarettes and fixed telephony. The forecasts of the budget for the development of 2.7% in 2017, on which you celebrate, I fear that they are inappropriate, ladies and gentlemen. That is not just what we are expressing. The same fears are expressed by the Parliament's Budget Office, which considers your assessments extremely over-optimistic. The IMF to participate in the programme requires new measures of EUR 4.5 billion if it remains at 3.5% of GDP the primary surplus, which you are committed to taking the debt relief measures. With your forecasts, neither is the OECD and the newly established financial board, which in its first report calls into question the effectiveness of the measures brought by the new budget. But you also celebrate Mr. Tsipras panic from the outcry and collapse, share benefits to get them back again multiplely with the new measures that are coming. This shows that you do not understand the criticality of the situation. You seem to live in another universe. Should you, ladies and gentlemen, learn to reread the figures reflected in the budget? Does Mr. Tsipras think he's Prime Minister on another planet? Are you no longer in society to see the real situation in society? We, ladies and gentlemen, wish that your predictions will be achieved. However, the course of the budget is linked to reforms. And you seem to have allergy to reforms. You support your forecasts to increase private consumption by 1.8, while overtaxing citizens. And, as the science of the economy says, when there is overtaxation, private consumption is falling. You appreciate an increase of 9.1% in new investments. But who do you think will come to invest in a country with a government that does not believe and support investment, in a country that does not have stability, confidence, credibility and security, in a country where the Minister of Development yesterday said that high taxation does not adversely affect the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship? I hope, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that you do not have the same view. At the same time, the President of BSE said at the same event that, on the basis of the budgetary figures, the new year will be more and unemployment even higher. Now, as far as the triumphs for short-term debt measures are concerned, evolution is, in the first place, considered positive. But it's not the one you've been waiting for, Minister, and the one you've been advertising for so long. And we should not mock the Greeks in addition, because this is not a debt reduction, but an intervention that will improve debt service by 2060 and will also bring down debt over time. However, the compensation for these measures, as the government accepted, is the surplus of 3.5% of GDP, which will bring new painful measures of around EUR 4.5 billion. For the completion of the evaluation, we are not talking about it. You refer it, as the first one, to the future. You are increasing the country's untrustworthyness and of course you are even more burdened with the country. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that growth and the solution can only come from investment, investments that will bring new jobs from new investors, but not from those you have been looking for among Syrian refugees, according to Mr Mardas's theory, because that is where it turns out that you have not found them and will not find them. But you have to turn around. But we have to turn. Where there are investors who have a glimpse toward us, in Greece that thrives outside our borders, to the Greeks who are magnifying on five continents, to those who see the curse of the country with sadness and distress. We must address them and motivate them to come to invest in their homeland, who perhaps love her more than we do, to those who want to see their country progress. Be sure that the Greeks of the family can stand sick in our country’s effort to get out of the crisis. But it takes a national strategy, a national policy and a desire to attract them, not obsessed ideological and not free economy wars, as you are. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have deceived the Greek people with excessive and unrealistic promises. You jeopardised the country's European course, you closed the banks and landed the market from liquidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u307	At the end of the four-year period we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u308	Minister, don't complain. It's good to hear it. And two years later you show that you have not yet been taught by your sufferings and continue to go into delusion. It is clear that the country needs another economic policy. It is clear that there is a need for a change in fiscal policy towards a gradual reduction in taxation by implementing structural changes. It is clear that it needs a reformist government, reliable, effective and socially just, which is inspiring a sense of security for the citizens. Our citizens also need it, and our country needs it, which is always on the table. However, these presupposes a political change that will also bring about a solution. Clearly we are not voting on the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,'much the sea state'! With this saying the great historian of antiquity Thucydides identified the relationship of Hellenism with the sea. A historic journey brings to mind the relationship between Hellenism and the sea, the greatness that emerged from this relationship and the defence, in ancient times, of freedom and democracy, as well as the development of culture and the promotion of trade. Ladies and gentlemen, following the Prime Minister's decision on the last reform, I find myself in a new, highly productive and creative ministry. I found a pretext extremely important from my predecessor, Dome Dragon. On this effort, which has been made, we are building with my partners and the officials of the Ministry, as well as the executive capacity of the Ministry, the strategic objectives of this ministry. We claim that this budget has been built in three principles to inspire the sense of security and confidence so that investors can come to Greece. Greece, ladies and gentlemen - and it is important to get rid of this misery and the depression that some have from their absence in contact with power - is the most secure country right now, with political stability, a country that attracts stable and decisive investment. And as soon as the process of quantitative relaxation goes ahead, it is certain that the feeling will be fully inspired by foreign investors, who are currently waiting to invest in Greece. It is a budget that tries day after day to inspire the sense of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, you are'smiling' about the Prime Minister's statement yesterday. Of course, he didn't have the area we'd like to have. However, what is left over is primarily returning to those who have social needs and are hierarchy, because our understanding is completely different from yours. Here I have to tell you, because you are easily forgetting that every September in the last 15 years books have been late for three and four months in schools, as the teachers were delaying. This year there was no talk. That's not what you're saying. Wasn't it an important contribution? In 2014 you received all NSRF money in front to meet the needs of children's stations. This year we gave EUR 93,000 from the Public Investment Programme and put 15,000 more children into the nurseries. What do you think? A little? Little one? Do you know how many such things will happen by the end of the four-year period, when the Greek people will be invited to decide on who wants to re-entrust the country's rule? So just be patient, because even what you are asking for today, that is, elections, ignoring the next day that the country will be in political instability, is the worst thing it can meet home at this difficult time, when there is a sound world war on the perimeter - and you ignore it - when the refugee is always at doorways when the country's economy is primarily in need of stability. It is good, then, to find a common place for all of us, because we are all patriots here. We all love Greece and in such a spirit we must move. I return to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. We have worked out six strategic goals, hierarchizing needs, so that we can with determination and as quickly as possible create conditions for real growth by creating jobs. The first strategic objective is to promote institutionally the draft law prepared by my predecessor, complement it through an open and creative dialogue with all institutional bodies. It has been given to all the institutions and in a few days we will complete this process. Pillars in this bill are: The pan-Hellenic examinations for the introduction to the schools of the Port Authority. Only in this way will we close the door to the 'individuals', in the anxieties that prevailed over all these years mainly from the rule of a particular party, which, when coming, abolished every molecular process that had been established, to promote specific options. It is also the introduction of a molecular system for transfers, so as to stop unfair and unjust - several times - moving. The conventions with the cooperation of the citizens and the seafarers, which relate to the barren lines, the protection of workers in the shipping, our seafarers, so that there is no seafarer working in the context of black work. Our second strategic objective is to make the best use of the EUR 1 of the EUR 400 million which includes the programmes relating to the Ministry. The NSRF, the refugee and a number of other smaller fisheries programmes, are programmes with which we can really, after being properly exploited, after absorbing resources in the most effective way, achieve in this pillar the following three things: the digital strategy, namely to be able to obtain all the systems that are bought, to be modern, to button each other and to create a reliable framework that will provide timely and valid for the safety of the country. To equip the port with a series of vessels, really modern, fast speeds, because today, as you know, the port plays a very crucial role in the safety of the country. The third area is the organization, use of all the equipment we have on board vessels, repair and use to make them worthwhile again. Third strategic objective is seagoing shipping. We all know that Greece is at the moment a great power. And this is due to shipping and logistics. And we must in the conflict of work in these two places, patiently and persistently find a common place. The Greek seafarers must flood Greek ships for many good reasons. And shipowners must understand and recognize - I believe they recognise - the merits of Greek seafarers. With such an effort, it will, in fact, not only be possible for Greece to maintain its quality flag, not only to ensure priority in world shipping, but also to give Europe the relative importance of this shipping. In this context, there are a number of problems with the Competition Committee. The government will continue its efforts to support Greek shipping. We are also waiting for an appropriate response to a series of investments. It could - and we must do so in cooperation - for Greek-owned ships manufactured in China, Korea and Japan, use reliable equipment manufactured in Greece. In this way we will create an economic cycle and create jobs. Next strategic objective: ladies and gentlemen, shipping analysts say that over ten years in the next hundred and fifty thousand front-line staff will be needed for global shipping. Greece must take a significant part in this distribution. And this can be done by organizing education schools, education academies, which had been abandoned at their luck and in which jobs had been abolished. Today, then, they work largely with matures. We, however, promptly pushed the process - through the ADP - to recruit teachers. In cooperation with all the regions, in which there are academies, we include in the regional programme funding for equipment with modern equipment for these schools, so that we can actually provide high quality education for young people. We will also work with the Ministry of Education in order to become involved in vocational guidance and guidance in shipping. Our next strategic goal is cruise, it's tourist ships, it's yachts. It is an area where Greece has comparative advantages, which we must use. In this context, there is an absolute cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism to promote worldwide the opportunities available in the country to ensure the attraction of tourists. Ladies and gentlemen, island policy is a painful story for all. And I do not question - and it would be small to recognise it - that there were many efforts made by various governments. However, we have never secured a specific European programme in order for Europe to implement its commitments and references in many circumstances. We are already starting with the completely island regions of Greece working with other island regions of southern Europe. I have already seen, on the margins of the shipping ministers in Brussels, all my counterparts. They saw the idea extremely positive. The Maltese Presidency's juncture is a good one. So we can, through cooperation, consultation, aspiring our MEPs, mobilising everything we have, create a climate that is positive in Europe. This Europe seems to be beginning to realise that territorial cohesion is an obligation for the people of the islands to feel that they are not second-class citizens, to feel that they are both citizens of Greece and of Europe, that they are both citizens of Spain and of Europe, that is to say, real territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u312	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult time. But we can work hard. I should like to close, Mr President, on a very important point relating to the ship repair area. We are all aware of the problems that exist in this area. But there is also a number of obligations from the Cosco Convention in the port. By the way, I would like to say that the process for Thessaloniki is progressing smoothly, and there are workers' issues, but also access to and use of the first pier. I would therefore like to say that in the context of creative cooperation with COSCO we will also open up a dialogue and I believe that it will be understood that the need to promote investment, which, in particular, concern this area of repairs, will be made clear. The tanks and the 'COSCO' must come quickly, because we are already at the gates of the so-called 'green' energy, the construction of 'green' energy vessels and the conversion of ships for the use of 'green' energy, and that is why there will be a great deal of interest. As far as Scaramaga is concerned, along with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of National Defence, we need to start a new attempt to release from the burdens of the European Union Competition Commission to the shipyard, to proceed with the process of resolving the dispute so that this large shipyard can contribute - and it can really contribute to the development of the country. With such initiatives, then, it is certain that the country can walk on the real path of development. A development that concerns everyone. A growth that touches everyone's lips, a growth that will reverse the hope of homeland abroad, to leave the new Greek children abroad. Greece has enormous potential and I believe that as long as this climate of confidence is restored and we are leaving the situations of political instability, the more the economy will grow and the more this place will evolve for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Minister. Mr Iyhan Kara Yusuf has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, these days, we are discussing the second budget submitted by our government. With the 2016 budget we managed to reverse the recession and today Greece's image is stronger, because the government has chosen to tackle the problems realistically, taking difficult decisions. We had two choices. The first was to ignore the real conditions that the people face on a daily basis, obeying blindly the demands of our external partners. This is the mistake made by the previous governments. The other option was to make prudent calculations based on actual data today. Is that not the purpose of planning a national budget, that is to correct the imperfections that have inherited us from the past, to try to improve today and at the same time to see to it tomorrow? Since taking over the government, we have been making a great effort to restore the injustices of previous years, particularly in two key areas, education and health. These two sectors had been damaged irreparably, but with coordinated moves and a great effort this year schools opened up without gaps in books to be on time. In fact, I would remind you that all the books of both programmes have come in particular in the minority education system in good time, so have teachers. Also, two and a half million uninsured were published in the ERC after years. And to note that the government has given him this fight in particularly unfavourable conditions, with the lenders on the one hand pushing for further measures, which remains unnecessarily for the government, as the agreed ones must be observed on both sides, while at the same time closing their borders to refugees and immigrants by enslaving people in our country, a country which, from the backwardness of her pocket and from the excess of her soul, has taken care of them in the best possible and human manner. Under these circumstances, the country continues at a steady pace to move forward, precisely because the government is not seeking short-term solutions, but is building up a long-term economic plan. The 2017 budget is the first budget to set the framework for a different economic policy with the economy to mark growth and the weaker, who have been so affected in recent years, to support effectively. In 2017 the social budget reached 1.16 billion with the introduction of social solidarity income, the strengthening of the social budget for health, education and welfare, as well as the protection of first residence. The 2017 budget has the largest reallocation of income in Greece in recent years. Isn't that the task of a left-wing government? Furthermore, as the Prime Minister announced last night, 617m euros will be allocated to some one and a half million pensioners receiving pensions under 850 euros ahead of holidays. I would remind you that it is 4.7 times the amount of CSR cut in 2016. By the feasts, it will also be paid 100% of the 2016 compensation for farmers, as will the liquidation of basic and green aid. In order to strengthen farmers, we are introducing duty-free subsidies of up to EUR 12 000 and importing a tax on real income. Those taxpayers who show in their 2017 tax returns a yearly net income from agricultural and only activities below the levels of EUR 8,500-9,500 will not pay taxes. Remind me of it to some statemen in my area, those who once ruled us are again in the headquarters of Anti-Population and walk in our villages and terrorize the world that a storm is coming. To know, how many are going to pay? How many chips do we have in our area in Thrace, and especially in Rhodope, where do I deal with? For all of this, but also for what colleagues from the government have said before me, I am voting in favour of the budget and, of course, I call on the opposition even at the very last moment to be serious. Greece will thus not just be a small indebted country of the South. It will be a country that achieves its objectives, a country that is a factor of stability in the wider Southeast European region. In conclusion, of course, I should like to welcome from the Stephen and personally thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for their recent visit to our region. We keep this visit as a promise that our region will be immediately upgraded to the level it deserves and recognised its great energy, productive and geostrategic importance. Some, who have been ruling the country for decades, have now remembered that there is Thrace, as if the decades that Thrace ruled were in some other part of the world and with the government of SYRIZA we discovered it was on Greek territory. So the society of Thrace united, will not allow anyone to play games at the expense of our beautiful region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard these days when we are discussing the budget, many of us saying that there is no debate in this House. Unfortunately, in many cases what is going on here is a little worse than the coffee shop debates, as you say. I see on either side what has done, what the other has done. The people who hang out at the cafes know that the previous governments destroyed the Greek economy, grabbed the future from the young people of our country and now the current government comes and gives final blows. It hammers the Greek economy and along with it hammers Greek society. We now have problems and social cohesion. The worst of all, however, is that the world understands that you are not claiming the salvation of our country but simply its government. Why? Why should this image be pictured for us politicians - why close to dry and green - and why not inspire the world hope? We know that if you do a round of coffee shops, squares, go back into the world, you'll understand what their basic needs are. Because right now, listening to you, I think we're living in a parallel universe in here, that we're in another reality. And I'll explain why. I hear they talk about unemployment and New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA. The New Democracy and the PASOK are responsible for delivering these unemployment figures to SYRIZA, and SYRIZA is coming and tells us that it is fighting unemployment. It combats unemployment with two hours and four hours jobs. Is this an essential solution to our problem? It's not that you know it very well. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] We are not fighting unemployment when youth unemployment has exceeded 60%. Our young people are seated, who should be the driving force on which our economy will rely to recover. And all this is reinforced with Brain Drain. The "foam" of our scientific power abroad is gone. They're coming out and they're piercing. These people we need, these minds we need, so that we can recover as Greece. I really do not understand how you go up to the Step and say 'we are fighting unemployment'. I can't understand that. You're talking about overtax. Both the New Democracy and the PASOK accuse SYRIZA, but SYRIZA blames them for the previous policy. Yeah, you both exaggerate. This is illustrated by the figures, which many Members have mentioned these days and Ministers. We see that your tax policy leads to the exit of a large number of companies in Bulgaria. There are currently seventeen thousand Greek businesses in Bulgaria and fifty thousand jobs from Greek businesses. We made guys not only the Bulgarians but also the Romanians! If these companies had their work within Greece, there would be no unemployed in Edessa, Drama, Serres or Kilkis. We're talking about fifty thousand workers. We gave these jobs to the neighbors. We're such good neighbors! I have heard the Minister, Mr Papadimitriou, here in Step and I read what he said, which tells us that overtaxation is not the first criterion he is turning away from business. And it was explained by the fact that other countries have high taxation. And other countries have the deposit? And other countries have insurance contributions? And other countries have special contributions? Do these countries have these wages? When the International Economic Forum - I have said this in my speech before - tells us that the main factors that determine the competitiveness of a country are, first of all, political stability, tax policy, central administration, the possibility of banks to strengthen businesses and citizens and government stability, you come and tell us that overtaxation does not play such a major role? How? You come now and you tax both wine and oil, and we see that your income is less than it was before. You see that overtax does not yield the expected results. The lenders are pushing you. But there, show your stand, stand it up. It is not possible in Greece of 2016, where tourists were more, to have less revenue. You don't understand that businessmen tried to evade tax, why didn't they just get out? When there was no pin on many beaches in Greece, in many shops, you tell me we have less revenue? Think about it a little. You come here talking about investment and say that, according to the new budget, companies in Greece will export more. Nor will the existing investments, unfortunately, have any increase in exports. Tell me, how's that gonna happen? Explain to me. No one can explain it, just to mention it, to say it. You have shown many times that you are indebted to large investments. There are cancellations of agreements, delays. A lot of people have taken their bowls and they're gone. How do you support the argument that Greece's investments and exports will increase? You've got it all right. You have also said that refugees will also help increase investment in Greece, but we see nothing. Will someone tell us when the capital control is finally going to be lifted? How will an entrepreneur come? Say they're not affected by overtax and he came here because we have a good time. Will he come to invest while we have Capital Controls? You guys think about it before you say things? Because I can't understand it. You need to explain them to me more simply so I can understand them and the people who listen to us. You are now coming to give a kick to the existing productive structures of the country, such as the primary sector. Make a debate with farmers and you will see that they cannot cope with the new taxes, with new contributions, with the abolition of agricultural oil. You do the same with tourism. The country's Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, went out yesterday and said that increased VAT would not apply to some islands. Do you think that's how you strengthen tourism? Do you have a solution? You don't give a solution, I answer you. Fear the reforms, the reforms that produce wealth. You don't cut the costs from where you should. You continue with the appointments of poster and the creation of addresses, organizations and let them overlap with each other's responsibilities. Your own Minister spoke of civil servants we don't know where they are. There are bodies that have absolutely no work objects and they are still there. Don't send out the civil servants, put them where there are deficiencies. How many do you need? I take what you're saying, but you're close to two years and we can't see where our employees are? You think a private business would take more than a week to do that? So that there is no reproach against civil servants that they are sloppy and chaos and that they are responsible for what is happening in the country. They are not those responsible, the policy that has been pursued so far, is responsible for the point that we have reached. We must take advantage of all our supplies, our environment, our geothermality, our products, and not deceive ourselves. I must finally - I do not want to repeat myself, but you do not understand otherwise - that we have a government of national understanding. I hear that the PASOK is now asking for the same thing, which, when it came to Parliament, the time was to vote for the simple analogue, voted against it, and I do not really understand why it should make such a gift to the next Prime Minister, whoever he is. And you're coming now and asking for a national consultation? So, three months ago, where the law on simple analogues came, you were against, and now you're talking about national understanding? Luckily, you're on the right track! And that is what we are asking, having a stable government, a strong government, because the Prime Minister can't go out and the Chief of Major Responsibility, too, to be tempered and yelling "I want elections, I want elections". Is that the solution? It's not an election solution. Ask our fellow humans a bit. No one wants elections because there will be no solution, there will be further delays and you will come as a New Democracy, because things will not go elsewhere, to sign the fourth Memorandum. Is that what you want to do? I don't think so. Let us all put aside the party interest and let us finally unite in order to shake Europe a little too. With what is happening in Europe, as in Greece, in the referendum in Italy, in Great Britain, it seems that the people of Europe have now fallen behind the policy pursued. The design being followed at the moment is wrong. I am not saying in any way that we need to get out of Europe. We are a pro-European party. We have seen a lot of good things from Europe and Europe is in a crisis right now. We need to shake them up, find allies in it, and go up with a strong government, and know that they are talking to serious people, not with a government that the Minister says, but that the Prime Minister and others are saying so that we can get a result. The Prime Minister comes in yesterday and makes a letter. My criticism of this proclamation will be to refer to the statements made by the current Prime Minister and me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u317	And that's what you're gonna close up with, Mr. Comrade, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u318	I'm going to need a little time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u319	You'll have the tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u320	That's great! ... what he had said in 2014 about Mr. Samaras, who had given a 500 euro allowance, that these are crumbs. "They are crumbs" - he said - "you took the bread from the tables and now you're using them." "You see their dignity," our Prime Minister said. We are not saying that this money should not be given, but we hope that it is not an election trick and that it is just the beginning, because that does not solve the problem under any circumstances. To close, the Greek people have long lost their trust in the political system. He's been putting his back on for years to recover the Greek economy. But I fear that if you go on like this, the Greek people will also lose their hope and then we are all lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on, I would like to inform you of something, as I am convinced that I represent the vast majority of colleagues from almost all sides of this House. Yesterday, at the outset, my own attention and colleagues, who were in the Chamber, saw an incredible personal attack by Mr. Cassidyri on the part of Minister Tsakalotos, who was also in Heaven. I think we are unanimously condemning such behaviour without any alibi at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u322	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u323	I also request your unanimous decision, so that I unilaterally request that the shameful phrase be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u324	Just? To impose another sentence on him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u325	When he has passed, my colleague, the Bureau is not putting it back. It's another process. I understand what you're saying, but I'm telling you this, so we can be informed. Is that right? We are closing this issue here and I would ask the ladies of the Minutes to correct it and bring it to me today or tomorrow. We shall now proceed as follows: Mrs Stavrou will speak, then Mr Panagiotopoulos, then Mr Bolaris, if he has come to the Chamber - a colleague is sometimes late - and as far as Mr Karagunis is concerned, there has been a mutual transfer with Mr Panagiotopoulos. Since Mr Bolaris does not come, Mr Stamatis will speak, who is patiently waiting in the Chamber, then the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos, and we will continue with three - four Members and with the Minister of Labour, Mr. Fotou, who expects her to come, to give her the floor. Mrs Stuboulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2017 budget can only be held in the light of the Prime Minister's yesterday's announcements and in the light of the Eurogroup's decision on the last few days. Whether it is the Opposition to admit it or not, the debt will be reduced by 21.8% or by 45 billion without PSI, without any criminal haircut on the reserves of the educational and nursing institutions or, of course, the savings of the micronomists. If you find the surplus of 3.5% unresponsible, which does indeed involve an unreasonable rate of growth, then there is a counter-proposal for 2.5% plus 1%, where 1% is paid back to small and medium-sized enterprises from taxes and contributions, which should be seconded, a counter-proposal with which you have not yet told us whether you agree or not. You should explain to us how the minus 0,25% of 2015, 0.55% of 2016, 1.75% of 2017 and 3.5% of 2018 are more unbearable than the 3% of 2015, 4.5% of 2016, 4.55% of 2017 and 4.5% of 2018, which you agreed, with predicted growth of 2.9%, as the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy said yesterday, without dareing to say how much they were, in fact, the negative development that they achieved with PASOK, as if they were able to forget the spiral of the recession, in which the economy had been plunged up for four years. Excellence and many degrees gathered in a short time may make you confuse the philosophers of the French Revolution, but they may not prevent you from comparing sizes of simple arithmetic. As for the possibility of extending the commitment to a surplus after 2018, which makes the speakers of the Officerial Representation pointing to us that our political time ends in 2019, the news is not that they do not recognise us the right of a medium-term commitment by those who promised the country's future for decades, but that they recognize us political time by 2019, as the Constitution says, those who, in January 2015, waited for the left-hand parentheses to close at the end of February and September hoped not to make the year. So the left-hand parenthesis is not closed, and the announcement is not a pre-election, the Prime Minister's decision to provide EUR 617,000 to a million and a thousand pensioners with a pension of less than 830 euros, a multiple of the cuts in the CSCE and, indeed, with a reverse distribution to get more of them and those who need more. It is realisation of our commitments to support those who have been hardest hit by the crisis. Preliminary announcement they rushed to denounce yesterday that they are the people of "Bavroyalous", presenting to us their own way of thinking, and today they told us that they were a lie. Tell these people who will get the money, they will pay some outstanding bills and go a little better on Christmas and the neighborhood shops, where they will go to spend the money they'll have on them, because they, you know, won't put it in offshore, nor will they buy complex banking products. You are disturbed by our commitment to the classmark that our own policy will have to make available, which, let us stress, is available thanks to the performance of the non-tariff measures, those which you say we do not take and the institutions do not believe we can take, therefore, into account in the agreed surpluses, measures limiting tax evasion, the loss of intra-Community VAT and smuggling, such as those which, at last, are applied to the Promachona of Serres, according to the decades of customs. There, at last, the bridge was placed by our government, which was donated by the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship in the mid-14st, because your governments refused to buy it and when they donated it, they mourned to install it, while they made its money within the first ten days of its operation, as expected. And it is also a sign of gender that the Prime Minister's decision has, because, as you know, poverty is a female genus, especially over sixty-five: 15.2% for women and 11.9% for men. A woman's age is also unemployment, which is why we understand the value of vouchers allowing unemployed mothers to leave their children in nurseries and nurseries so that they can look for work. Females are also victims of racial violence, domestic violence, rape, traficking for sexual and working exploitation, sexual harassment at work, whose support is continued through counselling and hosting centres, after funding from the ESDP has been provided for two other years. It is petty to recognise Mr. Haritsis that for his days the NRP is being absorbed until a minute. There is also provision for these centres to receive women victims of violence. With the signing in September of the Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Labour on the establishment and functioning of a National System for the Recognition and Reference of Human Victims of Human Trading, in addition to ensuring the protection of the National Centre for Social Solidarity for these Persons, in their vast majority of women. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few seconds, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u327	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u328	Female generations are also the darkest area of the darkest side of the moon, where those who are inhabited by justice felt that an act has insulted them and that this government has ceased to try to improve their lives, not only with decongestion measures and legislation for mothers of very young children, who must finally have a wider application, but also with the 3 million euros, where the budget of the Ministry of Justice is increased to improve living conditions in 2016, starting with the elementary, such as heating and hot water. While the micro-political purposes of some people are trying to deprive the prisoners of Korydallos even their pre-built place, while the moral autocrat of morality, at least, extermination of the fully acquitted seropositive women - this persecution, and if it was a gender discrimination - turns between us and moves our fingers, the Ministry reorganises the training of the prisoners, makes the preparation for the establishment of women's rural prisons and prepares the presidential decree that will incorporate the prison psychiatric in the ERC, creating for the first time a section of women and young people. The ESS therefore bears the costs of medical and nursing staff fairly, because the staff of the Ministry of Health will be, as will all health professionals who offer their services, in detention stores. And since we are talking about the ESS, to which I did not intend to refer more extensively, but yesterday I was provoked, it takes a great deal of courage to question the recruitments that began in 2015, continued in 2016, thanks to the brave increase in the Ministry of Health's budget, and will continue in 2017. Can I talk about the more than two hundred doctors who were then rulers left after the 2010, 2011 crises and now have all those who have not otherwise arranged their professional life within the five-year period that passed? Or for the four hundred ASs in 2015 plus six hundred in 2016, which heard the unacceptable line 'Leave them', as if they were less doctors or as if their payroll was not included in the budget. I will not continue with recruitment numbers, I imagine the present Minister will do so much better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u329	Either way, you're gonna have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u330	I'm hanging up. I will say, however, that despite the opposing allegations of counter-population, the withholding 6% of pensions is assigned to the EEAY, which - to return to women - now places digital mammography in the tests. She's staying on the contraceptive pill, too. Minister, I don't think he's gonna throw the budget out of us. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we have before us implements as far as possible our commitments to those most affected by the crisis and that is why it is voted in favour of all of us who are putting the support of these strands first. Let the others and others assume their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Konstantinos Karagkounis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you judge the 2017 budget on the basis of the criteria we normally consider a budget, there is no doubt that this is an outrageous text, because if the ordinary Greek citizen is aware of what is going to suffer and if he sees behind the figures and figures, I feel, without any misunderstanding, that the Prime Minister should have remained permanently in Cuba! The most outrageous thing is that you're mocking pensioners. While you have made them an ruthless attack on incomes, you are convincing that you are giving them a thirteenth pension, which is not the case, because, as you know, it is only for a year - and, of course, you get them a lot from the other pocket. I'll give a simple example for people to understand. A pensioner with a main pension of EUR 580 and an ancillary EUR 84 has lost around EUR 417,6 per year only for the retention of the health contribution in the main pension and EUR 60 per annum for the subsidiary. I mean, so far we have 417.6 euros. This pensioner will get back as a single, thirteenth pension, as you call it, 300 euros. The pensioner of the same paradigm is obviously also receiving an EKT, which lost a few months ago and will be deprived, namely, of a total of EUR 360 per year. Total loss: 837.6 euros. And you're returning him one-third. We're talking about huge mockery. We're talking about Hodja's well-known theory. Clear things. We are talking about a budget for the permanentization of the clinical death of the Greek economy. Your motto is 'give more money'. And what you're saying about development and what you're saying is that they're moving in the sphere of anecdotology. I'll give you another example. Every day I read in the papers that the Treasury - and Mrs Papanatsiou is here to tell us - is about to control a million two hundred and fifty thousand taxpayers as suspects of evasion. So, what do they actually say? That they'll control half the country's active tax population. In other words, apart from the great tax-paying bills, the taxpayers will henceforth be at risk for them to become the accused. And all this in conditions of absolute crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u333	It's not like that, Mr. Caraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u334	That's right, Mr. Comrade. Absolutely. I mean, you're making the unprecedented one that doesn't make any country in the world. You're chasing half the Greeks, half the tax-free active Greeks. You really have no idea how the real economy works. You think this country is a closed country, an economy closed, as if we were in Stalin and Hoja's years, as I mentioned before. At a time when you are asking for insurance contributions, Mr Manda, and you are taxing 60% of Greek income, companies and professionals are, unfortunately, forced to change their tax base - if you don't know, look at the practice - and the rest of the others are going abroad. Do you know why? It's very simple. No one in the real economy wants to give 60% of his income, no one, in any country, not just Greece, nowhere. And, obviously, the new and pleasant Minister of Labour might in her thirtys not have had the opportunity yet to learn how the rule of economy works, the real economy. Both the same and the Minister of Finance do you know what will happen? Next year they'll see the insurance system's revenues and not just dive, but they'll be in a free fall. I feel that then you will not ask for 3.5% surplus, but you will ask for 10% and 13.5%. Otherwise, the insurance system will close, there will be no resources to keep the insurance system. In all this, what are you doing? You're running to Cuba to play rebels. You even resemble the armed struggle that established the doctoral regime of Castle in his country and compare it to the national liberation struggle of 1821, that is, incredible things! And what did you discuss with all of them? Really, can the Prime Minister tell us what he discussed with all of them, Mr. Maduro, Mr. Morales? Because all they can tell you is how to extend the capital controls system. Nothing else. They do have a lot of experience in this. Go on and on how to tax the rest of the population. We know that very well. What else did you talk about over there? I have the feeling that you've been playing revolutionaries, when you're literally doing what Mr. Shoeble tells you at the same time. Measurements? Cutters? Overcrowded? What no government dared to deliver, you did. I would also like to inform you that the international instruments say about the German Minister for Finance, who is speaking very flatteringly about the Prime Minister. He presents him as his best student. He's dropping honey for him and at the same time you're going and you're taking tens for the Revolution, for the Left and all that. We are talking about total insanity, about total surrealism! Even Bonuel, who's the famous director of surrealism, would really have kicked his degrees if he heard all this. I have the feeling that they would feel inferior to the circumstances. With a word, ladies and gentlemen, as a conclusion and because the people usually say that fish stinks from the head, I would say that this budget in itself is absolutely worthwhile. But considering the comedy that is going on around us with this government, it may also be possible to see this text that there are little toast. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u335	You'll have the tolerance, too. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a few small references to the issues of justice, which has been actually raised lately. Both the political system, the officials and the judiciaries of justice to adapt our policies and directions to serve very specific objectives, which this government, ladies and gentlemen, has consciously undermined and sedated over the last two years. Firstly, transparency in its functioning and its constitutional role and purpose, far from interference and influence. Because it is only in this way that the prestige of judicial decisions is strengthened and respect for the institutions of the state by citizens, the effective treatment of corruption, which undermines the rule of law, and creates obstacles and parasitic structures in economic and business activity. The question he raises and the ordinary citizen is: What do you really have to fight corruption in the last two years? How many cases of corruption in the public interest have proceeded and how many really with the evidence that the government can collect have crossed the gates of Korydallo? What did you do to combat smuggling and how many smugglers you arrested? How many scandals have you revealed in the last two years? It is a question that people understand and see what is happening in practice. Thirdly, the rapid and definitive resolution of the disputes and the reduction of the uncertainty caused by the delays, for example in the implementation of public and private investment, in the resolution of labour disputes, in the business and operation of the tax system, can be done, provided that the new ways of extrajudicial compromise that the previous government has established and promoted and that the current government has unfortunately demolished and fought with mania. And I was listening to the Minister of Justice the other day to discover that he should focus on the extrajudicial compromise, mediation, judicial mediation, when two years in the Ministry of Justice fought - and, of course, earlier as SYRIZA - rabies these institutions or the reform of the codes of civil procedure, the criminal procedure of the Criminal Code, which is ready for two years and all you have done is to cancel the lawmakers, underestimate the highest professors and conquer the law in the Ministry's drawers. Another major issue is the digitisation of justice, which simplifies procedures, speeds up the administration of justice and stimulates productive forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u337	With this, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u338	I shall conclude, Mr President. In this area, e-justice projects had already to have been completed and delivered since 2015. They've got an extension for 2017 and, finally, a lord, when these projects will be completed! I would like to end with the penitentiary system - and I am closing, Mr President - because we need a sense of security for our citizens. I will tell you what has happened over the last two years: by the Act of Friday, No.4322/2015 - listen, ladies and gentlemen - nine thousand forty-nine prisoners were released. Your penitentiary policy is now summarized as a doctrine: get everyone out. These are your things, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, for the Greek people, as long as it is extended - we will say so many times - the life of this government will be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Bollaris hasn't been here. I am not deleting him, as we did with other colleagues. Mr. Stamatis has the floor. The Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, will take the floor and then Mr. Panagiotopoulos will take the floor. Mr. Katasafantus probably won't come because he had a happy event. It was a few hours ago, Dad. We wish him well-known and his wife. Then we'll continue with the list. Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak today with numbers. A lot of numbers have been heard. I think everyone has come to their conclusions. At the end of the day, political experience says that one budget has two aspects: one aspect is the satisfaction of the figures. The other aspect is the satisfaction of society. I do not think the numbers will be satisfied either, but I am sure that society is not satisfied either. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is your point. Good courage, get over it! The people know what these measures mean. The people can appreciate what consequences they have in everyday life, beyond numbers, are either said by us or said by you. I will try to see a little more politically the budget. First of all, I think it's lame. We are called upon to vote for a budget without the second assessment being closed. I would remind you that the Prime Minister himself said that the final date for the closure of the evaluation is December 5th. Of course, he was right when he said it. For without the agreement being closed, what kind of budget do we vote in this House? If the agreement has not been closed, on the basis of what medium-term programme is the economic situation taking place next year? If the closure of the agreement and the medium term are delayed, what are the consequences on the impact of this budget on the economic life of the place? No answer. So it's a fox, because it depends on a fact that will happen. If it does not happen, then for free we are discussing this budget. But he is a foul one for another political reason. Because the country with yesterday's announcement of the Prime Minister has actually entered a pre-election period. I don't know if you're aware of this, but political events have their own potential. Even as a mistake in taking the announcements, political events are selfish. And today, not only Greece but also internationally, it is being discussed that Greece has probably been put to the vote. Of course, a question arises here: What happened suddenly and a few hours ago in the House was spoken by the Minister of Finance without making any such announcement, after a few hours he made an announcement of the measures? Did he have an epiphany from the Holy Tomb that he had gone to? Shouldn't he have informed the Minister of Finance? What if the Minister of Finance was here, I would ask him: was this briefing made to the lenders? Have they been informed? Because messages are extremely worrying now. We have the statement by Mr Regling, which says: 'We wonder what that means'. We have the Commission's reaction. And I'm wondering now. We are going to a negotiation and we are looking for allies to support our fair demands and while we are looking for allies, we are joining them together and across from us! What kind of intelligence is that? What kind of negotiating tactic does this stand serve? Unless - because only this conclusion comes out - you have started the election process and are looking for a step - step by step - the pretexts you are going to try with. I'm telling you one thing. In the summer of 2015 it cannot be repeated if this is what you have in mind. New Democracy doesn't fall into the trap you're going to set up. Let's get out of here and don't get us wrong! And, of course, as far as the content of these benefits that were paid yesterday is concerned, it has been analysed by everyone and probably because one of you can say, as Mr Flavouraris and Mr Janakopoulos said: 'We are government and we are doing what we want', then the government must give me an answer. There is a commitment by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, which was talking about freezing the insurance contributions of professionals to the OAU and said: "A statement I make, a commitment". Where is he? Information says that once the lenders have found out, they said to him: "Start it aside". So if you wanted to do the dude, why don't you do him there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u341	We're guys!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u342	You... I know. Only it's different. I give another meaning for the "guss" and you. That's what we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u343	Don't answer that, Mr. Stamatis. Mr. Polakis, don't try it again. We'll forget the medical chauvinism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u344	I repeat, therefore, that this budget that is being voted on is being voted within an election climate which we will see shaped dynamically in the next few years. If you prepare - I repeat - to re-establish the 2015 setting to blackmail the Opposition, you will knock a door that does not listen. Also, this budget is unreliable and we are not telling you, the House Budget Office has told you, the Financial Council has told you, the OECD has told you that these 2.7% growth targets are in the air. They told you stylishly, but that's what they meant. And also, go achieve 2.7% in the wrong way. With what? Taxation. And for those who doubt this, it was enough yesterday's statement - Mr Papademiriou's position, which not only admits the correctness of taxation, but also gives political content to it. He says: 'We are right to tax. This is how growth takes place." Here, of course, every reasonable person is incomprehensible when he hears the Development Minister say what he said. Also, he is unreal because he makes assumptions that do not exist. It says for an increase in private consumption of 1.81%, while we will have a reduction in wages and a total income. It says 9.1% investment, when three days ago you poured "SOCAR". It says that we will achieve an increase in taxes of 2.6 billion, when private people's debts are increased every day to the public at a rate of 1.3 billion now. In other words, citizens don't pay six ISPAs a year! You put an additional EUR -2.6 billion - and you have a loss on the other six HUNP pocket! What kind of economic policy is that? I didn't get it! Also, a budget is moving within a real economic environment. What is that, beyond what the numbers write? The real economic environment in which the budget must function is the closed banks, which are now left behind. I read the compositions of the banks' councils and remind me of Greek groups: ten players with a foreign name and one with a Greek! And it's not just that there was a delinquency. We have lost 25 billion for this miscellaneousism, for which you can be sure that at some point those responsible will be accounted for, just as they will account for the excess!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Stopatis, that's what please hang up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u346	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We also have the insurance funds, which can barely respond until May with the assistance of the Solidarity Fund. Doesn't it form a budget gap? We have the delay in awarding pensions for three years. Isn't that a budget gap? We also have irresponsible judicial decisions by at least half. Don't they form a budget gap? Individuals owe PPC 3 billion. What does that mean? Isn't there a potential budgetary gap? What, then, will happen if PPC is enlarged and cannot respond? Will you close the current in Greece, or will the budget be ticked, and this will automatically be the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Stopate, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u348	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but everyone has been tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u349	I've given you three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u350	Because we are from the same party you show too much rigour to me, while with others things were more relaxed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u351	You obviously didn't see the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u352	Also, to see the real economy. In August, when ELSTAT was passed, which said that up to August, in the eight-month period, there were 541 million uncovered cheques, with the exchange rate being 600 million. In the corresponding 12-month period of 2015, uncovered checks amounted to 280 million. This means that, within one year, the unserved obligations of individuals to private individuals have been tripled. Can someone from the government's financial staff tell us what consequences they are moving into the real economy because of this fact? Within this economic environment, gentlemen, it will move forward and show whether the budget is responding and not to the papers you write, which are in theory accepted by lenders, but in fact they are dynamically forming a budget gap, which the next government will be called upon to address.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Stopatis, please close, because I can't leave the microphone any more!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u354	I'm closing, Mr. President. You're involved in a vicious circle. Notice that, in your dizziness, you lure the country into adventures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u355	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Xanthos. Then I had announced colleagues, but from yesterday Mr Venizelos informed me that he would speak and now he was in the Chamber. If he wishes, Mr Venizelos will take the floor and will normally follow my colleagues, as I had called them. Mrs. Fotio's here, too. After the three, four colleagues, Mrs Fotou will speak. Mr. Xanthos has the floor for twelve minutes with the corresponding tolerance I have shown to the previous ones. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. I think that every debate on the budget is at risk of alchemy on the budget figures and of political manipulation of figures. We all have to be as specific, clear and honest as possible in order to safeguard the credibility of the political system. The truth is, then, that we have a budget to which there is obviously a hard core of political austerity, which has been imposed. It is a painful agreement, which we signed last year, giving a breath to the country and an attempt to redeem with dignity and at the same time its position in Europe. Its financial constraints are certain. The difficulties in the real economy are also given. They create an asymmetry between the social needs and the resources that this country has. This is also an important truth. And this asymmetry is of the opinion that it can only be addressed with a serious plan of productive, social, institutional, administrative and political reconstruction in the country. In this health system, this means priority for public care, reorganisation of the ESS, focusing on primary care, prevention and public health policies. It means reorganization of the supply system. It means monitoring the provoking demand, waste and corruption that are still in place despite cuts in the daily life of the health system. Another truth is that the National Health System despite prophecies and "Cassanders" is still standing, stabilizing its function, upgrades the quality of the care it provides citizens. This is mainly due to the contribution, in its price, to the commitment of its human resources and, of course, to critical policy interventions of the system that took place last year and are now evolving, and this also concerns enhanced funding and enhanced human resources recruitment packages. Another truth, too, is that the country is healthly safe, that because of its efforts, the excellent scientific potential of people who are involved in public health, because of the care they have shown throughout this critical period, which we are dealing with a huge social problem of pan-European importance and scope, which is the refugee problem. And we have not allowed this problem to become a public health problem with the assistance of non-governmental organisations, volunteers, everyday people, ordinary citizens and of course the people of the health system. In consultation with the European scientific organisations, in consultation with the international organisations supervising and intervening in these cases, we have ensured that in our country, despite the difficulties, respectable health care for refugees and migrants is now available, and we can thus not allow mass social influence to be acquired in xenophobic, intolerance and racist reflexes. There is a lot of discussion about recruitment announcements, which are not confirmed by reality. I have heard colleagues say yesterday and call on us and ask us to present them with a permanent employee in the health system. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being exposed. You are particularly exposed to the human potential of the health system, which knows very well that at the time of the last one and a half years there have been very important and systematic efforts to strengthen the human resources system, which I personally do not remember having been involved in at least twenty years. Three and a half thousand doctors and other staff have already been placed with various employment relationships, but covering the most urgent gaps, stabilizing the operation of critical departments, especially in provincial hospitals. All these changes are already felt. It's changing the climate in hospitals. They're opening tight beds for intensive treatment. Parts whose function had been suspended in the previous period due to sub-office are reopened. And, of course, what follows is a very systematic effort to speed up - because there have already been two thousand recruitments of permanent doctors from the ESS, a huge amount of support to the system. Indeed, we are seeking to accompany this with a change in the way doctors choose on the crisis and evaluation boards so that the process is much faster and does not last for one and a half years, as it has done so far. Of course, there is a call for another two thousand posts of nurses, manufacturers, other staff, permanent recruitment via the ADP, and sixty-sixty employees will be appointed immediately from rolling tables of successful ones of the first nine hundred fifty, already completed and placed in the public hospitals. This is the cumulative number of five thousand, which the Prime Minister mentioned yesterday. Above all, we have ensured a very critical and immediate intervention, which is the recruitment of four thousand workers through the OSCE, with a special programme of support for employment in the health sector, which will give a very large breath in a health system, which has indeed been afflicted in recent years by the continuous leakage of human resources. You tell us that there are no resources, that all you tell us is in the air and that recruitment is not reflected in the budget. Those who have elementary contact with figures and with budgets know very well that recruitment of permanent civil servants is not recorded in the budgets of the respective ministries, but they are charged with the general government. And, of course, the precursor ministries' operations have the approval of both the Ministry of Finance and the State's General Accounting Office. As far as the expenditure budget in itself is concerned, the health system in 2015 was about 1,388 billion. We made a critical intervention last year in October, we strengthened him and reached 1,556 at the end of the year. So we kept the health system upright. This year was 1,634 and will remain at that level on the basis of the new medium-term until 2018. Do you know how long the previous medium-term was, how much was the corresponding forecast? It was 1,402 for 2016 and 1,420 for 2017. It is therefore about 230 million more than the money that has been guaranteed. This has not been done in a magical way, but with a central government's policy it has been reallocated from the state budget to invest in this social cohesion crisis and to support a plan to ensure universal access to uninsured citizens. You said that you have dealt with this and that we are mocking about uninsured people. Also, you're being exposed. We have ensured, based on the elements of the 'ERGAN' system, that seven hundred and seven thousand uninsured citizens, who are below the minimum income limit, have free access to medicines. From August 1, the system operates, eighty-two thousand of them have taken with zero participation their medicines without 1 euro per prescription from private pharmacies, with a cost of EUR 19 million. There are a hundred and ninety thousand uncertainties that have done laboratory tests in public structures this year, a cost of EUR 21.6 million, which was not foreseen until now. Also, there are two hundred and seventy-four thousand uninsured people who have been prescribed, taken their medications and treated, as are the remaining insured, and it is a cost of EUR 62.7 million, which so far has not existed. So these, ladies and gentlemen, together with the provision - very promptly - to cover the rest of the benefits of medical aid, to be consumed by the EEAS for patients with severe chronic illnesses, such as diabetes mellitus, CFP, cancer, Mediterranean anemia, in my view constitutes a very critical intervention of social relief. This, in my view, is the possible left-wing policy today. It is a policy that focuses on the victims of the crisis, the economic and socially weak in this country. Also, at this time, the EEA, for the first time after many years, is directing public funds for social security in the public health system. While on average over the previous years it has spent 80-90 million, this year it will yield over 400 million to public hospitals. This is also a practicable resource synergy between the state budget and social security, which strengthens the public health system. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not neoliberal but is a left-wing policy. Late debts. EUR 850 million has already been attributed to suppliers of public hospitals and EUR 470 million to EEA suppliers. Aggregating is EUR 1,320 billion less debt in the health system. On 31-12-2015, the debt of public hospitals was EUR 1.2 billion. At the moment it is 0.7 billion, and with the completion of payments by the end of the year and the arrangements that we are going to make for clawback, we will probably go to the beginning of next year with no dues being generated in public hospitals. The accumulated debts of EEAS on 31-12-2015 were EUR 1.7 billion. Now it's 1.450 billion, and the forecasts are going to 1,350 billion. Of these, 450 million are transferred debts before 2012, before the establishment of the EEAY, from the old insurance funds, but which will be repaid through the due date, and most of them are clawback, which has not yet been collected, and the netting that will take place. And there, if everything is going on properly, on the basis of the design that has been done, and above all, on the basis of the 100% repayment system, on the basis of the strong controls currently carried out on providers, we are also moving into a new landscape in 2017, and in the EEA, where debts will no longer be generated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u357	Minister, you have to pick it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u358	I shall try to finish, Mr President. Some of you are portraying the sanitary editors. You come here and you disguise the health system's problems, show his gaps and weaknesses. Of course, you do. That is the role of counterpopulation. The role of political forces and political persons, however, is to present an alternative to the government's political plan. We told you what the political plan is: priority in the public system, the subsidiarity of the private sector, the synergy of resources, the state and social security, and the use of European funds at this time, not for projects and actions 'extremely deserted', but which serve a coherent policy and, above all, reform in primary care. This is our political plan. This provides for enhanced but marginal, obviously, funding - enhanced, however - and it also means recruitment. What's your political plan? How will you deal with these gaps, at least, are you speaking from the point of view of the lesser state? Where are you going to get the revenue? Because you don't like taxation, because you think it's counterproductive. How do you do social policy? How will recruitment of permanent and other personnel be promoted more quickly? How will you deal with the real difficulties in the health system?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u359	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u360	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think, therefore, that there is a political question if, given the limitations of the Memorandum of Understanding and the prerequisites, there is room for a different policy in the field of public health and the social state. That is a crucial question, which wants a very honest answer. So our answer is. Yeah, on condition. We are in these positions, because we believe that we can in these difficult circumstances, honestly administering the few resources that our country has, cooperating with the human resources of the system, inspiring another social ethos in the health system, cease to provide political immunity to the phenomena of waste, corruption and phenomena of the past and under certain critical conditions, firstly, effective and documented control of demand based on diagnostic and therapeutic protocols...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u361	Minister, you're putting me in a very difficult position. You will not speak any more than the Minister of Finance! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u362	I shall conclude, Mr President. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u363	You have said five times the word 'complete'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u364	Wait a minute and I'm sorry about the delay. Secondly, centralisation of services, thirdly, the treatment of corruption and, fourthly and very importantly, the negotiation of sustainable compensation prices, particularly in expensive medicines. These are the critical conditions. I'm closing up saying this. Apart from the assessment of the lenders who need to be completed and who are very important in the course of the economy and the country, we are primarily interested in the evaluation of society. The time for the final evaluation of society has not come. Our work is with stubbornness, courage and determination, to continue to make an intervention, which produces relief effects in society, particularly in the sensitive area of public health, which upgrades rather than shrinks and disorganises the public system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u365	Minister, it is not because of my great tolerance that we are doctors, but because there is time to get rid of the list of all Members. Or I'd have put you down earlier. However, as the recruitment issue will return, Minister, I would like to ask you, until tomorrow, to send the list of recruitments, permanent vacant organic posts, because this is the case between counter-population and government. We are talking about permanent vacancies and not generally about recruitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, could I have the floor for very little?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u367	By the time Mr. Venizelos comes up, I'll give you a minute, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u368	The debate is not about permanent vacancies in organic positions. You know very well that empty organic positions in the health system existed before the crisis and before the memorandum and during periods of supposed prosperity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u369	All right, send as many as you have until tomorrow, so we'll see them in the Opposition as well. Here, Mr President, you have the floor. There will be relative tolerance to you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is the tenth budget of the crisis that began in 2007, in fact and had been incubated many years ago. In December 2014, we had actually reached a step before leaving the memorandum. The enormous, superhuman effort of the Greek people between 2010 and the end of 2014 began to take shape. A acquis was formed. After the January 2015 elections there was a national retreat, unfortunately disastrous proportions. Be careful, the size of the damage that has occurred in the body and the prospect of the Greek economy is much greater than the size of deception and denial. The country, unfortunately, is trapped at the bottom of this damage caused by the current government. I think what happened yesterday at the Eurogroup. His decision is the epitome of the country's problem. From Memorandum III yesterday, on 5 December, we went to the "Memorandum III Plus" with the International Monetary Fund, which is required for the Government, for the European Union and, unfortunately, regardless of what is going to happen with the "Morandum III Plus", we have already accepted a "Morandum IV" in the bilateral, without loan, but with measures, on terms, without knowing whether there will be any further loan on favourable terms, much more favourable than those which the market gives. All this with a primary surplus of 3.5%, when the country has shaped all the conditions, demand and achieve a reduction in the intended primary surplus. Because now the primary surplus is not an abstract mathematical entity that affects the nominal debt value in 2022, as was the case in the 2011-2012 discussions. We are now talking about the annual financial needs, which are covered by the partners with a loan or by the market, or revenue from privatisations and a primary surplus, but you can make internal arrangements and exchanges. So you have strong arguments to claim a reduction in the intended primary surplus, which we have already put it in 2013. It is very important that we know what we should ask, how and when. It is, in fact, a pity to ask or to take it. I say this because you are exploring, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the country at very high pressures, threats and blackmails. Grexit's return as a threat by Mr. Siomple for a multiplier time is not yours - you will allow me to express - "free magic" when you played with Grexit in the tragic first half of 2015, in the cloud of irresponsibility and demagogy. We now have a nervous, awkward Europe that seeks direction and has entered a complex electoral cycle with Italy, with the Netherlands, with France, with Germany. Now Greece is a very small problem, when you have to deal with the Italian problem, the Italian banks, the Italian red loans, when you have to deal with the big problem of France's orientation, which is the second major partner, is part of the Berlin-Paris axis. But there is not only the damage you caused in 2015-2016. You have caused enormous harm in the period 2010-2014 and especially in the period 2012-2014 as a force of opposition by undermining efforts, with obscene lies, with slandering, with the division of the nation, with the break-up of common sense and with the undermining of the way that lies behind Greek society. Now you are paying this politically, but the country has paid it and pays it very heavily at national cost. Let us remember the actual size of the damage you have caused. Back to the recession. Loss of at least seven and a half growth units. As much as the forecast for the seven-and-a-half points was, there is the forecast for growth of 2.7% in 2017, which is the pillar of your rhetoric now. However, the planned seven-and-a-half points of 2015 and 2016 were lost. The overtaxation. Additional financial measures. Anti-development retreat. Reimbursement loss from SNT and ANFA of the Eurosystem portfolio, EUR 6 billion. In this regard, the Commission notes that the State-owned banks have not been involved in the restructuring of the bank's capital. Loss of public and national influence in the Greek banking system. New recapitalisation, such as EUR 5.5 billion worth of EUR 5.5 billion. Loss of 45 billion euros. Radical increase in non-performing loans. A dramatic deterioration in the dynamics of debt. By June 2015, we expected the debt to be 70% of GDP. Now, after what has happened over your days, if there are no interventions, the prospect is to reach 250% of GDP. That is what we are talking about now. This is how the "small gamble" by the partners for supposedly short-term measures in relation to debt has begun. In the medium term we will see them from July 2018, if we look at them. The long-terms have disappeared completely from the debate. Finally, while you were supposed to play with the conflict between the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, we lost to both sides. We have lost both in terms of debt and in relation to the degree of cruelty. No intervention in debt or due diligence in measures. What measures? We will, he says, have a debt reduction at a nominal value of EUR 40 billion in 2060. That's zero. Because if the debt reduction is EUR 40 billion, 20% of GDP, in 2060, then the reduction as I told you yesterday at a nominal price or at a present value in 2012 is equivalent to EUR 2060, EUR 1,330 trillion, with 650% of GDP. If you want to tell us that you've brought a 40 billion cut, we've brought a 1.330 trillion cut. If you tell us that you brought 20% of GDP down in 2060, we have brought 650% of GDP down. Did the Treasury respond to my yesterday's announcement? He didn't answer! Did ESS respond? He didn't answer or answer. Because if you read his detailed announcements, you'll see that unfortunately they're working on you and on the face of your government they're working the country. While this happens, Mr. Tsipras is coming to make the announcement of the one-off aid to the low-pensioners. Who? Those who have suffered the reductions - not to talk about those who get a little bigger pensions, but have paid very large contributions a lifetime, not to talk about the unemployed, not to talk about the professionals, not to talk about business, not to talk about young people. This one-off aid, what will it compensate? The threatened reduction of the main pensions or the threatened reduction of the tax, which the International Monetary Fund is asking unpaidly for? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you remember what Mr. Tsipras said when we announced in March 2014 the social dividend from the primary surplus of 2013? He sweared to us, he whacked us, said it's nothing, that it's a shame we're doing. Greek citizens lost their corresponding social dividend of 2015 and of course lost many, many years from the prospect of returning to normality. For only growth and employment will give security, money and prospects to the poorest, to the weakest but also to the medium-sized ones. Because without medium-sized ones, there is neither development nor democracy. Now tell me. What's the plan? Do you expect the success story based on our strategy? Now you think you're going to capitalize on the effort we've done and which you have undermined and destroyed over the last two years? Whilst a few years' delay in 2019, will we have the success? Are we going to have a steady recovery, private investment, leverage of the NSRP, increase of jobs, increase of consumption, return of deposits to banks, reduction of red loans, normalisation of the operation of the banking system, stabilisation of the insurance system and the dynamics of the proportional deficit, increase of revenues from privatisations? Are we going to have all this? You're gonna do it and capitalize it politically? When? In 2017 with the financial and political framework that exists or in the first half of 2018, when you will have already signed the fourth memorandum without a mandate and without legalisation? Unfortunately, none of this will happen while you're in the government. For there is neither your faith in them nor the trust of others in and out of Greece. There are no social and political conditions. There are neither subject-matter nor subject-matter circumstances. You have no management capacity and no trading capacity. Unfortunately, as I said, they are now working on you openly, and that harms the country and all that in what climate on national issues? In the climate of nationalism, which has no strategic direction? On the refugee question, what is the government's reaction to the announcement that Dublin III will return from other countries to Greece as a country of first approach and first request for asylum from 15 March 2017? Is the agreement with Turkey being implemented? Has the flows of refugees and immigrants from Turkey stopped or increased on our islands? They increase every day. Not to talk about the institutions, about justice, about the only phenomenon of Mr. Pappa's law! Of course, you see, he has spread your infamous debt account. In the original version of disgraceful debt and unilateral deletion, you played your money in 2015. Now some others are the signifiers of this idea, but they are your opponents. Anyway, this is something that moves in the field of graphics. The second account of the parametric changes that we made in 2012. But you didn't take them, they took them away from you. In other words, complete destruction of the national plan. While the honest choice of national interest is to go to elections, you dare not think about them, because you have no other legitimacy, you have the power, no values, no barrier, cynically. All you're inventing is tricks but merodol-meroves. We cannot, of course, impose elections, but we can say what the national interest requires, which requires other correlations, another government that has extensive cooperation between all democratic pro-European forces and, of course, a SYRIZA that will be involved, after paying the cost of the national damage, after losing and after going to its normal sizes, what it had in 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u371	With elections or without elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u372	A solution, of course, is not a self-powered New Democracy government, which would also be the second hand error of the first and would also be unrelenting for the current data of the crisis, but what the country needs, is an integrated alternative and a national strategy based on national understanding. We have proposed consistently and costly, only our own space, the democratic party, the Democratic Alliance, in recent years. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Because we need a resounding of creative forces, confidence, capacity to negotiate, to get the country a financial space against reforms. Only in this way can we convince society, adopt the regulatory programme, because this contributes to the vast majority of the most creative Greeks in business, but also to the weakest, the poor, the unemployed and the medium-sized, who need to be restructured through the reopening of the real economy and the banking system. We are discussing the 2017 budget and this budget is already undermining itself during the debate on key points with the Eurogroup decision. Now the Prime Minister is coming to share his own crumbs. But that's not how it's done, because it doesn't share generosity crumbs, it shares the crumbs from the defeat of a national effort, and we must now collect all the forces, to build a perspective that the place needs, it needs an optimistic but responsible message. Because as a great Greek academic, Pascalis Kitromilidis reminded us yesterday, speaking to the Old Parliament, Max Weber said that there are two conflicting morals in democracy: The ethics of belief, where everyone can say that is my belief, this is my ideology, this is my political appreciation, my fraud, my illusion, my lies, my dedication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u373	And that's it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u374	And there is a moral responsibility, and that is what we represent. This is the really progressive, truly democratic, really national sense of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u375	Well, we're on our way as we said before. Mr Panagiotopoulos, Mr. Bolaris, I do not see him as Mr. Varvitsiotis, so Mr. Theocratics, Mrs.Jakris, will be followed by either Mrs. Ahtsoglou or Mr. Fotou. The two ministers of the same ministry will agree with each other and tell me who wants to be first. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in all the years that I have been involved in this central debate on our parliamentary customs in the budget, I have never ever felt such an unparalleled, meaningless process, really without meaning. I would now like to add that, while we are discussing the budget, there are two things happening yesterday - today. The first is that he comes to the committee today, in plenary tomorrow, a bill with forty-two corrections to the insurance we voted in May, when, as you recall, the Minister responsible was pouring out his clothes, about how deeply the system shields and brings an insurance policy that will ensure and ensure etc. Now after six months, forty-two corrections in this so perfect piece of legislation. At the same time, the Prime Minister is coming to set up over 600 million euros to low pensioners as a social dividend in 2016. The first is a memorial of curiosity. I don't think I need to expand on this. The second is a monument of deception, however, I would say more with a fragrance of irresponsible roll rather than heroic exit, as many of them rushed to appreciate, with elections in the background, not only because the evaluation of these 600 million has not yet been carried out - but also because, as you know, as you know, or if you do not know, let me inform you, the amount of the primary surplus is calculated every year in March, so that any social provision can be made in April. I would remind you that for the last social dividend distributed by the Samara Government in April 2014, in March we had counted the numbers - you were not doing well with the numbers, that is, the numbers - and then we rushed, in agreement and in comparison with the figures with the institutions, to share what could be left over to anyone who had to get it. You've been coming here since December and you've been sharing money. It's no backup checks. Only then in March can the amount of the dividend be safely calculated. So I predict two scenarios. Either you will obviously give in agreement with the institutions and you will receive the political benefit, any political advantage, in any case, seek to collect, after you have received ten and three, to make it schematically, or the other scenario is to deny the institutions, not to reach agreement, to characterise this bonus as a unilateral act, to cause a break with the lenders, to attempt to heroize the Prime Minister who puts them with the bad institutions, the Europeans, who, incidentally, have problems with Erdogan, are afflicted, by acknowledging kindness rather than dissent and, of course, all the other scenarios that they see in the light of publicity at this time. One of those two. Win-win, which foreigners are also saying, except that the trick has become noticeable and in my view it will not work. The most recent account of the government - the latest, I would say - is the triumph about debt relief measures, with a reduction in 2060. I am not saying that the measures are welcome, but certainly not by guaranteeing the sustainability of the debt, when appraising everyone. But here it is important to see what was not achieved by the government and the Eurogroup last Monday. The first is that the second assessment has not been completed. We know from experience that the longer the bill is being extended. We know that work and energy are still pending. Obviously they will be handled in the next year, but I also cannot overlook the recent - I can see the Minister in charge here - a cancellation of the privatisation of the TECF, where, apart from the fact that he has, I suppose, been deprived of revenues that were budgeted in the budget now under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, over 180 million, in addition - and this is the worst - it is a very negative signal to investors that what they have to do here is to keep away from Greece with any investment projects they have made. That's the worst. The second thing that has not been achieved was the inclusion in the quantitative relaxation programme, which was extended, if you read, in the countries that had this favour, the European partners who could join this 'brought' of money, while we chose to keep an umbrella for next year. Once again, the strategic importance of both government plans for integration into quantitative relaxation remains a constant lost opportunity. The third and worst is what has to do with the primary surplus. Here's the biggest thorn. The target for maintaining the primary surplus is maintained at 3.5% of GDP from 2018 onwards. But we don't know how long. For three, for five or ten years? I'm asking you. Do you understand what that means, namely maintaining the target at 3.5%? Are you happy about this? Are you triumphant about this? Here the European institutions are already appraising EUR 700 million for 2018, while the IMF is talking about more than EUR 4 billion. In addition to seeing the appropriate ministers, he asks for the insurance to be opened. We are talking about prolonged suffocation of the economy, permanent austerity, in essence of a lasting memorandum. Because as long as the country is unable to get out of the markets to borrow, the only choices that it will have, are, or the unscrupulous bankruptcy, combined with an expulsion from the Eurozone or the placing on the market of lasting memoranda, and you are doing everything you can to ensure that this duration is present. In the meantime - and this is very interesting - we are rekindling the debate in European circles, in which you are doing your favor, finally mobilizing Greece from the Eurozone. The debate on Grexit is coming back because the belief that the student here is unacceptable to those who would like to see us out of the Eurozone is being established. This is where I really wonder what you want in depth. Because seeing the recent adventures of the Prime Minister in Latin America, I think that he would really want to bring us - if possible - and turn us into Latin-type democracy. I really think that he would want to do that if in the meantime nothing worse, given the geopolitical depreciation of the country is not happening. In the meantime - and I shall end, Mr President, I will not need a minute - the Minister for Development states that overtaxation does not affect the competitiveness of businesses. Perhaps those who have transferred their tax seat outside Greece do not really affect them. But this statement by an American Minister for Development is outrageous. The Minister for Finance provides for a stimulation of private consumption, please in the 2017 budget, when next month we will pay more expensive even the coffee we drink! Of course, the budget we are debating provides for tax measures of 2.6 billion for 2017. This distinguished economist, Minister for Finance, predicts that, as long as the household income actually shrinks, private consumption will be stimulated. Run! In relation to investments, I would like to make more reason for deinvestmental fever and not investment fever. So I take the withdrawal of too many productive chains of business from the country. You know that even the justice, the leadership of which we had today the honour to meet, could have a development mark, if it accelerated its pace of award, so that any potential investor knew that if he was involved in the Greek courts he would not be involved in an adventure without the end but could in a reasonable time resolve his differences and implement his investment. Finally - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, since the Minister responsible is here - I would like to say this: you are saying that he is a budget with a social pretext, because the social guaranteed income programme will be implemented throughout the whole territory, what we have introduced as a minimum guaranteed income, which you have once renounced, but now you are recognising its social benefit, because you have actually been persuaded by the World Bank to implement it throughout the territory. But there is a misunderstanding, Minister: the World Bank told you to put the social guaranteed income across Greece. You put all of Greece in the social guaranteed income. How? By impoverishing it through your policies and povertying what has been left of the suffering from austerity and overtaxation in the middle class. Take the other way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u377	Finish, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u378	If it is not your pursuit to level all downwards, on my hands, it is a situation with which I very much fear that you are too comfortable. We claim that you cannot, that this is not the case! The country pays an expensive price to return after huge damage where it was in 2014. We therefore need a political change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u379	Finish Mr. Panagiotopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u380	The only question that exists - because political change will take place whenever you choose elections - is what damage there will be and whether this damage will be managed when you leave it behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 94th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bolaris is not in the hall. So I'm replacing him with another SYRIZA MEP. Mr. Theocratic is ahead of me, and then she's Mrs. Jackie, based on the list of registered men I have in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words about the Prime Minister's statement yesterday on the one-off aid to pensioners. I agree with a title I saw in the editors' Newspaper. 'No celebrations' - we could - because it is almost five times the loss of the CSCE and it involves 60% of the pensioners - but not'smallness', ladies and gentlemen. I shall repeat the question raised by Mr Syrigos, Mr SYRIZA's fellow Member. Does anyone disagree? Does anyone disagree about giving a surplus to a population affected all these years by the crisis and helping to deal with it? No one disagrees. You are simply smearing a number of other things to disorientate the conversation. I would like to stress, Mrs Fotio and Mr Juliarakis, to the Government, because I have experience and knowledge of this, that the irresponsibility of this aid should be looked at. Since when it is given, it will increase the amount of pension the retired person will receive and will probably be paid together with the pension and will go over EUR 1,000, instantly the debts of the banks, the tax office and the funds may fall and seize this amount, and where they are now waiting for how and how the families and pensioners, the EUR 300 or the 500 euros, can be seized by them half and we have others. That's why I've been stressing it now. We are not afraid to make a comparison with what Samaras and Venizelos shared in March and April 2014 in the uniforms. It has nothing to do with either surpluses or what they are saying now, that "you two years are trained to get where we were in 2014". First of all, it was a rotten development. Let the people think about the rally of the growth of the 1990s and 2000 that led. To get the few of them rich and to go bankrupt. To bankrupt the country, the many, and the few to have made their money abroad. They are the same ones who created the false and rotten 2014 growth. That's why they had to leave the political scene and the wheel of the country. Also, Mr. Samaras left the evaluation in the middle. The numbers were fake. That's why his allies left him. Finally, with regard to the EUR 500 bonus, the social allowance as they now say, which was in the uniforms, was election, and is now not election. Let's get this straight. From the budget I stand out the sum of EUR 100 million, which is posted and is about strengthening our completely weak economic fellow citizens to protect their first residence. Let's remember what the whole Opposition said, that that's not there will be forced by the highly indebted households in this category to return them to tax and so on. But there was a blur and a confiscation. No falseer. We now see it in the budget. He was on n.4346/2015. Well, we're clear about that. For the first time, the government has a budget in order to pay the State the dose set by the court for the protection of the first residence. But the opposition was claiming almost a year and a half now. Every day inaccurate, every day lies and mud with the logic "say, something will be left". Let me also remind you of the attempt to lure the Minister, Mr. Katrugalos, that he allegedly took a contract reward with his actions. "THE VIMA" last week, in the previous days, was forced and apologized. Will Mr Mitsotakis and the officials of the New Democracy apologise to mention this inaccurateness, this falsehood, this slander, as they apologise for 'THE VIMA'? "THE VIMA" was forced according to the law, because he tells you "I will have a matter of compensation". What should be first from the daily New Democracy reports? I'm fasting. For the posters? Now for the cost of traveling to Cuba? Did that hurt us? For the medical cover? The so-called loans of SYRIZA that are paid and informed, while New Democracy and PASOK owe 400 million and load them to the Greek people? Every day and by a political lie. Every day trying to make the hair, to refine the deaf, to swallow the camel. I shall address two - three of these issues, because they concern Greek society. So much dormant for the abstracts. It has the courage of New Democracy to speak of posters, while it is about legitimate temporary appointments of new scientists, which are necessary to every Member, to every minister, to every mayor, etc. What are the examples of writing the old political system, the New Democracy and the PASOK? As far as permanent people are concerned, they charged the public with their own children, they said so, regardless of qualifications. Forty years only "window", only rosphetological recruitments and a remarkable law that took place, the SAP law, tried and finally succeeded with photographic provisions to overcome it. For the temporary scripts given by Kyriakos Mitsotakis as Minister, it was that he had the five-fold poster from the respective Minister of SYRIZA, the five-fold, that is, they charged the budget five times more. It is now supposedly timely to say that - and "Kathemerina" has published it and "Kathemerini" it with a serious precursor - the posterior increased on SYRIZA. They did not, however, say that they were simply transparently counted, that earlier than the fifty-two of Mitsotakis had, only seemed to have been seven. So the poster's down. We go to medical care, because that was where things were called: "How you will do it and we have done it." I remember a friend of mine, a taxi-payer, who had a heart in Kosani. He had surgery, he was uninsured, because he owed the OAU. He had surgery at the Kosani Hospital in a very good cardioological clinic, and he's grateful for the free operation. He wouldn't even have had surgery before. Later the New Democracy and the PASOK had the interventions, but then the tax account went. Put materials on, intensify, operate, at least five grand. He couldn't pay it, five would be ten, ten, twenty etc. So he had a free surgery in his heart and was saved. He's got a humanitarian crisis card. He protected his first residence because he entered the law of Katseli. I personally handled his case. Well, don't expect it to support the New Democracy or the PASOK. We did not do it to support us politically, but at least they are not unknown. Do not, however, seek to find this one in the gulops made by your companies, the ones who had taken out the derby referendum, and it had twenty units of difference and the September 2015 elections that they were straight again, while you lost by eight points. Those people who are in obscurity won't be found by your companies, because they don't have a fixed phone, and on the cell phone your companies won't pick it up, because when they see those numbers, they're afraid they're collectors that attack them. This is an unambiguous majority, the one that supported the SYRIZA and our Government, the ones that became the bankruptcy of the country, but which supports us and is finally represented by us. Instead, the strong, the system supports the old political system, supports the New Democracy and the PASOK. This question I would like to ask the Greek people, why is the system hitting us? Why are the channels hitting the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u383	And with that question you're closing down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u384	Why are the powerful against the government and not with us? We don't do them the favors, that's why. On the contrary, the budget at this time has to represent these missing heroes, because they have kept the country in the difficult years of the crisis and are at last entitled to representation and they have it from us and it is from them. I close with that, Mr President, although I still have a lot to say. This concerns the stability that we and our budgets bring, because sometimes some friends say to us: 'You say the same, Samaras said, the same thing, stability, stability, stability and stability'. Yeah, but who's this about? Their stability concerned large capital, large businesses, bankers. Our stability is for the invisible heroes, the borrowers, the ordinary people. All this has gone into the budget, which is why I call on you to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u385	As I have said before, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr. Theanos Fotou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, you said later I will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u387	No, Mrs. Fotou asked for the floor. Have a seat. Immediately after Mrs. Fotio you will speak, Mrs. Jackrey.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u388	I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u389	Mrs. Fotou has no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u390	Now Mrs Fotou may not have a problem, but I have a problem, because the list of Ministers must be exhausted today, so that we do not have them all tomorrow. Eight minutes is Mrs. Fotio. Let me have my tolerance to speak for ten minutes. In ten minutes, my dear colleague, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, what time are we going today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u392	We said before 12 o'clock at night, because fellow Members will be finished. The ministers will be done. If another parliamentarian does not want to talk, because at least one of them wants, Mr Pafilis, we can finish earlier. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget always reveals the political objectives of the parties. For the New Democracy, of course, the goal is transparent, well-thought out and clear. Restore to power. Without power, the New Democracy cannot retain its huge clientele system that has been set up for so many years and from which it is powered. Without power the temporary truce of opposing tendencies under the hegemony of Mitsotakis collapses. That's why he's giving the ultimate fight now, the supreme battle. Power here or now or elections here and now. But in the debate on the 2017 budget this tactic has an interest in how it was expressed. I believe that it has been expressed almost by all the speakers of the New Democracy and has the following tripartite. Firstly, the Government's degradation with the well-known arguments 'false, incompetent, powerless'. Mr Hatzidakis, Minister of Government of Samara - Venizelos, served this line with a speech light, ironic, filled with jokes. It seems that this is the most fragile line in the New Democracy to make the government a fool of the government, as its communists advise it. Second, extreme antimony speech. It can't be more antimony than that. Siloam's new swimming pool, to forget the Memorandum past, the wild austerity, redundancies, the loss of 25% of GDP, one and a half million unemployed, the reduction of eleven times pensions, and it goes on to say. Thirdly, silence and the absence of any commitment. That is, quite simply, Members of the New Democracy, if the New Democracy came to power tomorrow, as you hope, what would change in this budget? Where would he take the money to give it where? Instead, Mr Hatzidakis may have managed the numbers in the truth agreement very strangely. He said: “In 2015 the government gave 105 million for the humanitarian crisis, while the Samara-Venizelos government had given it four times.” Yes, sir. Now listen to the numbers. In the period 2012-2014, the old regime gave 450 million of the primary surplus once and for all and in non-transparent procedures. We still don't know who took them. Secondly, our government, for the period 2015-2017, has 105 million from the 2015 budget, 250 million from the 2016 budget, 760 million from the 2017 budget and now 630 million from the primary surplus. A total of 1,745,000 euros. This means four times yours for a similar period of 450 million. Indeed, Mr Hatzidakis, the numbers are stubborn, as Miteran said, which you have invoked. With Mr Hatzidakis, of course, the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has also compressed in order to reduce the first debt relief measures decided at the Eurogroup, compared to the unscrupulous PSI that erased 120 billion and actually destroyed us. He had the opportunity again, Mr. Venizelos, to remind us of them again. Because then, for the second time, the European banks were rescued. The first time. He was with the appeal of the PASOK government to the IMF. So the Greek debt from private individuals became public, so that Greece, instead of oweing private individuals, owes the Member States and has the parliaments of the eurozone countries and their governments to it now, Mr. Soible and go by saying. At the same time, microbiologies, insurance funds, hospitals, universities were destroyed. That's why you're late, instead of being embarrassed, instead of apologizing. This is in response to the insinuation of Mr Koutsuku's crooks. However, the unanimity of the New Democracy and Democratic Reconciliation does not surprise me. The objective of restoring power and co-government is common. The most dangerous, however, in this development is the unprecedented in the history of the Greek state, undermining the country's negotiating position from the Opposition. They did so in 2015, begging creditors to be unresolved and inviting Greek savers to take their deposits from the banks. Mr. Mitsotakis does it now. In his travels to the United States of America he tells investors that if the government does not fall, investments are not made. But the undermining of the country's international position, unfortunately, Mr. Officers, is a violation of democracy. Opposition often perpetuates the way we negotiate. However, we have managed to fund the CRL, the social income of solidarity, with 760 million of the budget that we are voting on tomorrow, without prejudice to the basic benefits, for example, of family and disability, as you have spread and as you have hoped and hoped for. The social income of solidarity relates to seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. It incorporates the experience gained from the humanitarian crisis programme in three areas of aid. First, income support. Secondly, the interconnection of services, such as free medicine and medical care, participation in social poverty structures, participation in the TEVA programme, free distribution of fruit, food, vegetables, children's voucher subsidy for nursery stations. Forty-five thousand children who entered the nursing homes are one of the families who'll enter the CRL. Thirdly, connection to the labour market. 10% of the unemployed will find work with OAS programmes and pilot projects in the employment portfolio. The CRL has been an obligation of the country since 2012. Mr. Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition said he would apply it two years after he was elected. We'll vote for it. We will vote for the universal implementation of the CRL in January 2017 and hope that the New Democracy will consent. At the same time, however, we will change our country's founding and subsidising prosperous state with the following reforms in 2017. Firstly, the establishment of a single paying and payment institution covering all the allowances granted by all government bodies with transparency and a single organisation, in order to pay all allowances on a regular date, a permanent request for the disabled movement. Secondly, we will make a law on assumption and adoption so that children do not wait months and years in institutions. At the same time, we are strengthening decoupling with the NRPs and other programmes to open up institutions that have been very concerned with Greek and international events and finally integrate their benefit into society. Thirdly, we are establishing within 2017, after consulting and consulting - we want to consult everyone on this issue - common rules for the operation, evaluation and control of all institutions and for the reassessment of legal persons under private law and public law who offer social protection services. Finally, fourthly, we are setting up the National Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for Social Integration Policies, which is entering for discussion on Monday in the House, through which Greece will first acquire a powerful tool of information, supervision and evaluation at three levels, at government level, at regional level and municipal level. Single, online, daily this mechanism will also give the CRL and watch the CRL. The most important thing, however, is that we are promoting and trying to restore respect and dignity to all our fellow citizens in need. This will be achieved by the two hundred and fifty-four community centres, which will operate with seven hundred young people who will be hired under IASP procedures, and which will be the platform of the national mechanism, so that each of our fellow citizens can join the ATM and his AMKA, go there and be informed every day of his or her rights, of the benefits he has to receive, of the opportunities that he has, for the jobs that exist in the institutions in his area, for his or her participation in European or Greek-national programmes. The platform will be located in two hundred and fifty-four community centres. It is connected - online - with thirteen regional observers and within the Ministry. So every day, in the new address that we set up at the Ministry, we will see what services the two hundred and fifty-four community centres offer from Florina to Malevisi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u394	Madam Minister, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u395	I have finished, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. So we unleash - because this is our goal, this is the left policy for us - the Greeks from the former client regime, which forced them to address mayors, statemen, parties, ministers in the most degrading way, to ensure what they deserved. You often say that we have allergy to reforms. We do have allergy to all the Memorandum Reforms, which were the Memorandum 'cutting' obligations you called'reforms'. However, these major reforms that we are starting - and not you, you have never been able to do nor have you wanted - will change social protection in Greece. These changes reflect the budget and I invite you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u396	However, addressing citizens to the mayors is not a steadfast or a criminal offence. Mayors are closer, much more than we politicians in their local society. It's not bad at all. It's my self-government twist. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u397	Did it become a misunderstanding? Shall I come back? Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak for a minute. You don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u398	Let it go now, Mrs Jackrey will eat us. Sit down, then you'll talk. He's up in the Step now, and he's right to protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u399	No, and I will eat you, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u400	Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u401	I've endured, I think, in a heartbeat. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2017 budget is taking place in the light of the shadow of the Eurogroup's decision on the immediate implementation of short-term measures to alleviate the Greek public debt, whose impact will be substantial and will significantly reduce the ratio of debt to GDP by 22% for the period 2017-2060, according always to the estimates and calculations of the ESM. In fact, I am watching the agonizing efforts made in this Chamber by aggregation of opposition, as well as by a very large portion of the press, despite the confessions of a positive development in the case of Greek public debt, to undermine this important positive success, from which there is a benefit for the economy of EUR 45 billion, without - and this is the most important one - anyone losing one euro. Short-term measures will certainly improve the sustainability of the debt and are intended to face a wider concern, that future debt payments will bear an unfair burden on costs by squeezing the economy. They thus emit a stabilization signal of the Greek economy, as the rate that our country spends every year on interest payments and debt repayments will remain below 15% of GDP in the medium term after the end of the programme and below 20% of GDP in the next period. This will also open the way for the European Central Bank to integrate Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the effort to ensure the sustainability of the Greek debt will continue. The Eurogroup's decision, however, is therefore important, for one additional reason too. It also opened the debate at technical and political level on medium-term measures, with a view to further improving the Greek debt that will lead down the primary surpluses after the end of the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government will complete the second evaluation of the third programme as soon as possible, with a political agreement with the institutions. The International Monetary Fund and Mr Sybile must, however, understand that we are in no way going to accept the requirement of new measures after the end of the programme and the continuation of the extreme austerity policies. They should also understand that Greece cannot be an exception to European normality in terms of working relations. Greece has achieved a great deal. The Greek people have been tired of the austerity policies followed for seven years. I am one of those who believe that politics is the art of the right decision. It is the art that is justified when it improves the overall quality of life of all citizens and the well-being of them. Politics, however, loses its meaning when it is limited to its punishing role alone. This must be understood by our inferior European friends, who are occupied by the syndrome of sterile interpretation, the values of Protestant morality. The Greek citizens suffered enough in the name of the mistakes of older politicians. It's time for both their sacrifices and their struggles to be recognized. It is therefore a self-evident right to our Government and it is not under the approval of the institutions, what appears to be a surplus to be redistributed on the basis of social criteria to the weakest, to restore older injustices. The third pension is to be paid on 22 December, together with the twelfth pension to 1.6 million low pensioners of all the funds, as an exceptional social dividend. This decision will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever arrangements are made for debt settlement, they will not lead to a resurgence of the economy, unless there is a change in the growth model. Development does not mean a lesser state, with armies of fired, with the continuous assignment of its responsibilities to the speculative market and the weak north on their appetites, as Mr Mitsotakis sees. Development is certainly not the automatic market pilot. The dominant trend in the policy of developed countries is the search not of the lesser but of the more effective reform of economic activities, which ensures the public interest in societies, without drowning but by facilitating their creative business forces to develop. Today it has dominated that the optimal regulatory environment - not tax havens - can become a comparative advantage for a country, in its attempt to attract critical investments and resources to its development. The draft law on the one-stop shop and the draft law on the reform of the licensing procedures for enterprises, with a view to improving their operating environment, through the reduction of bureaucratic burdens, but without any reductions in the defence of the public interest - I had the opportunity to coordinate as the Deputy Minister of Economy up to the recent reform - which were voted on by extended majorities last week by the Greek Parliament, are key legislations to improve the business environment and overcome the deep recession that has plagued our country in recent years. The development, ladies and gentlemen, also requires incentives. The new development law has already opened for calls by stakeholders and six new NSRP programmes, a total budget of EUR 404 million. In short, I only mention the programme 'Contemporary Processing', a budget of 100 million, a programme of 'Building business plans in the environmental industry', a programme for the development of the Local Business Parks', a programme for the processing and supply chains, a programme for strengthening the value chains, cooperatives and networks, a programme for 'Internationalisation - Extroverting Small and Medium Enterprises', a budget of 100 million alone, a programme for the 'Additional Experience - Business Re-boot', with a budget of 54 million. All that is to be launched in the coming months will play an important role in the development of enterprises and in strengthening the real economy. The development, too, presupposes a new social contract, which means that all factors in the production process participate fairly in both opportunities and risks. Of course, this is not achieved by increasing the level of collective redundancies, as our creditors require, without collective agreements, with highly indebted companies, without a banking system which is brave in financing productive activities. The draft law on the extrajudicial system of public and private debt, which will be voted on in Parliament in the next few years, which, for the first time, the public sector, the insurance funds and the banks participate jointly in the impairment of burdens that are viable but with the benefit of the banks themselves, as we can all see for the real economy and the debtors themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector also has all the necessary conditions to remain one of the levers of our country's development, while it was and continues to be one of the few who are not only resisting the crisis, but is steadily increasing its dynamics in order to improve the export character of our country. We must move towards a competitive agriculture, oriented on the market and the production of quality and branded products which we must also highlight. Emphasis should be placed on agricultural products which have an increasing export interest, such as fruit and vegetables, cotton and tobacco. Our main objective should be to strengthen the sustainability of agricultural holdings and to create economies of scale, to strengthen forms of cooperation and networking and to develop cooperative structures, to increase added value with emphasis on processing, product certification, and to standardise them and to diversify production for the production of innovative products. The basic condition is that the resources of the new CFP for the period 2014-2020, totalling EUR 19.6 billion, with the EUR 15.4 billion headed towards direct payments and EUR 4.2 billion for measures for rural areas, always in line with the priorities of the rural development programme. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to close optimisticly, saying that every crisis is a window of opportunity. The budget we are discussing is in the right direction and can for the first time, after six years of recession, keep the window open and give the opportunity for structural changes in the organization of the state, showing it how to develop, bloom. Only in this way will we achieve the well-founded sustainable development that we owe to the coming generations of the Greeks. We are here as a country and as a society in the face of a huge work of change, which should have been gradually carried out for many decades, today must be carried out at a speed of pace, changes that concern all of us and require the participation of all of us. The reform bet must therefore be pursued with perseverance and commitment to the objective, from the time the reforms are adopted in Parliament to their full implementation. We did not reassure a whole year when we prepared a whole grid of changes for the good of the Greek economy and the Greek society. We will not be reassured if we do not see all these reform areas fully implemented. Let's be optimistic that we'll make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u402	Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor. Then he will take the floor, as he is entitled after four days of continuous presence, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Mandas. A colleague, Mrs Lebanese, will follow, so that we do not continue immediately with the ministers, and then the Minister for Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, will speak. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Their surplus is marked for the Greeks. All the sins, all the wounds, all the rot, all the fraud of today's politics. It hides the drama of millions of people, the destruction of households and businesses, the fainting of children from asbestos, the millions of unemployed, life in death in hospitals, psychiatric hospitals and asylum seekers, frozen nights and the hungry days of thousands and thousands of pensioners. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Are you protesting? That's what you said about the surplus when the Samara government gave it in 2014! That's what you said! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With these words, you'd welcome it. Don't move your head, Miss Fotio! Because your surplus comes with 2.7 billion new taxes next year. You impose 2.7 billion more taxes on the budget that you are voting on! While the surplus was then coming with a tax reduction, for which we heard yesterday that they were neoliberal and that they were counterproductive tax reductions. New idea in the economy! You have perpetuated the introduction of new theories into global economic thought. Unfortunately, so far you have not succeeded in following anything from your original economic thought. You've given up everything because you haven't been anywhere. The only good thing from the Prime Minister's announcement - and I would like to point out it - is that VAT does not increase in the islands of the northern Aegean. The islands do want attention. I was just listening to Mr Kurublis to Skai saying that, at last, the safety vessel will be launched, and he will convene a board of ferry transport tomorrow. He did find that he should call a board and that he can't make the decision on his own. I remember what hostage battles took place here in this Chamber when I introduced the Security Council. Where's Mr. Symblene, who was almost up here on the bench? But it wasn't just SYRIZA's reactions. My predecessor, Mr Mousouroulis, has tried to bring it and my colleagues from PASOK, Mr Kegeroglu, have called against this measure and had to withdraw it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u404	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u405	Don't raise your hand, Mr. Kegeroglu. I'm not going to interrupt Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u406	Immediately afterwards I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u407	That's right. Answer later. You have representation in PASOK as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u408	You're a classic liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u409	Calm down now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u410	Because you too were hostages of trade union interests in too much. You will also hear it at PASOK because it has its responsibilities for the point where the country has arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u411	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u412	Well, ladies and gentlemen, the islands need attention. The islands need attention, because they have the special and heavy burden of immigration. As regards yesterday's announcements by Mr. Avramopoulos, Mr. Mousalas should have proclaimed him in "Saint Avramopoulos", because not all the shortcomings of this dramatic management that took place in 2015 and continued in 2016 in migration and will not be the consequences of our country. We will not all be returned by those who have spent this time. This is, in fact, due to the political effort of Dimitris Avramopoulos, to convince the partners to be exempt until March 2017, our country from the application of the Dublin Treaties and to remain the millions of people who have passed through our country where they have ended up. This does not mean, however, that we should not prepare ourselves for subsequent developments. We're not prepared for anything. Yesterday the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen, had a competition - not a competition, directly awarded - in the light of exceptional needs. In what? What was the emergency? An extraordinary need was the coming of winter. He went to buy stoves for the camps he had built in camps in northern Greece. So he didn't know the winter was coming? Was it an emergency? When the plan was made, that half the immigrant storage areas in northern Greece would come, didn't we know that November and the cold would come? This lack of preparation on the issues of dealing with the immigration and refugee issue is unprecedented and justifies a number of squandering of resources and of course a failure for the Greek state to absorb European resources. Reading the budget, I see one thing. We built a Ministry of Immigration. We said we needed a Ministry of Immigration. Do you know how much the budget gets? 0.37%. Do you know that the main manager of immigration will remain the Ministry of Defence in 2017? Is that the logic of building a new ministry? Why did we do it with the Ministry? Why are we burdening the Greek people with bureaucratic costs? Why are we burdening the image of the country with bureaucratic incapacity? Previously on the Council of Europe came the "European Initiative", an international organisation and the "Doctors Without Borders" and told us, that it is unprecedented how bureaucracy can do nothing possible, that they rented a warehouse to house immigrants and the Ministry of Defence told the "Doctors Without Borders", that "you can't put stoves in, because we have agreed with the owner, that you can't even get a nail" and they couldn't hang stoves and put up heating bodies. This bureaucracy is maintained and maintained in a Ministry to which you do not grant funding, because all the funding goes through the opaque procedures of the Ministry of National Defence, which has not made a single contest, but continues to make direct assignments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that on the issue of refugees and immigration you should quickly change the question. The majority of those who come are not Syrian refugees. They are illegal immigrants seeking their permanent establishment in Europe. Yesterday, two hundred are from African countries. Last week we saw Caribbean countries reaching our own borders. Change the door. Get a line. Mr. Avramopoulos told you that you must become more careful. Make the closed detention centers, properly organize hot spots, finally calm the citizens on the islands, so that in 2017 and March 2017, which are very soon, we are organised and not found as a country that is in danger of having incoming immigrants from not only its eastern borders but also returns from those crossing our country from the other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u413	As I said before, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u415	What about, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I want a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u417	Yeah, why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u418	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u419	It wasn't personal. Your party report. Seeing you, he talked about PASOK. He didn't say about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u420	So just give me a minute to substantiate the staff under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u421	You have a minute, please, Mr. Kegeroglu, and let's get this over with. I don't give time. I trust what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. I will now go to the archive to prove what I said outside of the microphone to Mr Varvitsiotis and bring the amendment that I had tabled and which the leadership of the Ministry of Trade Shipping refused, which provided for under Article 101 of the Constitution, for the special care for the islands, the minimum service to be provided by the state, if for any reason the maritime transport is interrupted. That breaks down what Mr Varvitsiotis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u423	Good. Instead of intervening, bring in the amendment and you will speak then. It doesn't have to be twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u424	Wait a minute. You will allow me to present it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u425	Good. I don't have to allow you. You have a right to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u426	But then Mr Varvitsiotis has to be called to say he was wrong at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u427	Good. We're closed, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Varvitsiotis is not missing his political courage. If she sees her, she'll say what she wants to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u428	Don't move! I'll get it for you. Don't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u429	What's that look? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Kegeroglu, please! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty students and apprentices and four educational attendants - northern Greece has its honour tonight - from Litochorus High School in Pieria. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there are no ordinary times when we are living at this time. We feel the shooting of history, we worry, we struggle to return to the spectrum of Dark Europe, because the messages that are complex have food colours. Nationalisms, racism, xenophobia, austerity, inequality, wars, environmental disasters are next to us, near us, on a planet that looks so small and we are few. That is why it is our primary task of democratic and progressive people and especially of the colorful Left, with a weapon of our values, solidarity and justice, democracy and freedom, to fight continuously and decisively, so that humanity does not enter a destructive spiral. In this world, the little one, the great one, we must not forget, that many times we have given, given, and will fight even against superpowers, with our only weapons our right and determination. On this road, in difficult conditions, with many fronts and backs, we are building hope for us and for the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, on this background we are discussing the 2017 budget and in fact we are discussing all the matter of where we are and where we are going, even more on the basis of the difficulties, the comitology, the long austerity that has seriously injured our country, which has experienced seven wars and seven bankruptcies, apart from the civils. At the time of the difficult second assessment and at the time of the ripe conclusion of critical conditions for the exit from the crisis, we left must now and always not forget the social majority, the people suffering from class and racial discrimination, not because this is a fatal and natural phenomenon, but something that arises basically as a result of capitalism. At the moment we have to apologize clearly for what we have done and do not do, for what we are planning and dreaming, because we can still dream. We apologise, therefore, for having obtained access to medical care in over two and a half million uninsured. We apologise, because we gave more than EUR 250 million in 2016 to address the humanitarian crisis and we ensure social solidarity income for over two hundred and fifty thousand families, who live below the poverty line, while having access to other social benefits and opportunities for entry into employment programmes. We apologise, because after six years, new human resources, thousands of people, medical, nursing and other personnel, it attempts to support a health system that we prevented before the damage occurred, while planning in 2017 the big turn in primary health care. We apologise, because we are completing with tens of millions of euros less - in fact EUR 764 million less - after the renegotiation of the country's major roads and finally putting forward a rail network worthy of our place. We apologise, because we voted for the law on citizenship and gave equal rights to the coexistence of people regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity, on the grounds of human identity. We apologise for giving farmers individual tax free for the first time by exempting the majority of them from tax and a national pension of EUR 384, saving from zeroing within a few years the agricultural pension. We apologise for closing the NRP 2007-2013 programme with almost complete absorption, first in Europe. By the end of the year, we have the programmes, at more than 50% of 2014-2020, because for 2017 we have a Public Investment Programme of 5,75 billion euros, the largest after 2010. We absorb 7% for the first year, while absorption rates even in the years of 'boneless cows' reached 1.5% -2%. We apologise for keeping IPTO under public control and the networks under public control. We apologise, because we increased by 99% foreign investments, compared to the two previous years, and because we have a positive figure of 12.6% on investment in fixed capital goods and 10.2% on exports in the third quarter. We apologise, because we have attempted tax and insurance reform, which defines a more progressive and fair distribution of taxes to natural persons, with a view to redistributing, and sets the rules of equivalence to the insurance system in terms of adjustment for farmers and young scientists, even if not enough, while at the same time attempting a structural change, based on the introduction of the national pension adapted to the course of the economy with a growth clause. We apologise, because we over-increased the checks on the Lagard list, and we collected about 37 million euros, because we sent the Borgians list, without forgetting it in drawers, immediately to the competent authorities. At the same time we have ensured the mechanism for cross-border tax returns and the movement of accounts, which will hit tax evasion decisively. We apologise, because we have tried to put the broadcasting landscape under legal conditions - despite the omissions and the problems - in an extreme conflict with established interests in the information sector. We have made a decisive contribution to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council in full and legitimate composition, which must soon restore democratic legitimacy to the jungle of the channels. We apologise, because we took the initiative to set up the committee to investigate the loans of parties and the media and to reveal that some were receiving loans with air and that their state parties yesterday - New Democracy and PASOK - have been in front of them for over a hundred years to repay loans of more than 400 million euros. We apologise, because we did not shoot the refugees, the war-caught and global competitions. Yes, with omissions and problems, but we have accepted them, against the reflexes of xenophobia and racism that some people have recently triggered, saving the values of solidarity and humanity. We apologise why, following a multidimensional foreign policy, we have brought world leaders into the country. In addition, despite the challenges, we consistently pursue a policy of defending peace and cooperation in the wider area of tension, defending our sovereign rights away from nationalism. We apologise why schools have been opened up on time, because there is new potential in universities, new LAG members, because we pay particular attention to special education, because we give thousands of grants, because we increase significantly the funds for research, because we founded the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Technology and we channel funds of 240 million euros for young scientists. However, ladies and gentlemen, we want to apologise and why we give some 60% of pensioners, about EUR 850, what we can and have an absolute obligation to do, namely an additional sum of EUR 300 to EUR 830. We also want to apologise and why we inhibit the islands of the north-eastern Aegean which have been hit by the refugee crisis to increase VAT. For all the above and much for others, we apologise and take responsibility. At the same time, we take responsibility and for many things we have not mentioned, much that we have not been able to effectively claim, and above all for what the simple world feels is unjust, for what the ordinary world accounts for us. And no doubt, there are a lot of them, they are important, they are basically in the context of the painful compromise in the summer of 2015. But there are many others that are - and I stress that - solely our responsibility. I am leaving aside the wounds of the anti-population forces found in the experience of the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015, where the country was supposed to take off, the "suppliers" were suddenly found in power, "the children who called them tramps". And despite the attempts to fall - the parentheses they were saying - we insist, not on chairs, but on leaving a print with historical weight, a print of dignity, justice, a left footprint. Well, that can't be disgusted either by the locals or by strangers. And we know that well. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing - and remember it - we are not going to be forgiven by ordinary people, but neither is history, but we will never forgive ourselves. What they're not going to forgive us is if we get into the system, if we play trading games, if we cross the threshold. And we understand which threshold. And we are determined not to allow it if and whenever that happens, because then we will all be co-responsible. We should have our eyes fourteen! Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Minister of Finance made a sincere briefing to the Greek Parliament on the negotiation and called for all forces to be placed openly and clearly in the public sphere. Do they support efforts to reinstate the acquis communautaire in reintroducing labour rights, reintroducing collective bargaining with expansion and choosing more favourable regulations for workers? Yes or no? Do they support efforts to end austerity and in particular the Greek Government's proposal for primary surpluses after 2018, which provides for 1% of 3.5% to go to the development and strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises? Yes or no? Finally, I read page 55 of the budget approved by the Eurogroup: 'Since the objective has been exceeded, it will immediately be possible to allocate a single part of the overrun to actions to strengthen social cohesion and protection'. And I ask you this: will we defend within this suffocating framework the minimum, any explanation and interpretation that one gives? Are we going to defend our right, the right of any Greek government to allocate the overrun of the objectives, i.e. the money available to strengthen social cohesion, no matter what the various political forces see? Yes or no? And I'm closing, Mr. President. "We are citizens." says Howard Zin, an American historian and activist, who does not live now "We must not see the world with the eyes of politicians and say we must compromise, we must do this for political reasons". No, we must speak courageously. We are here, we are determined and we insist! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u432	You will see, Mr Mada, that you were very correct with your time and despite medical solidarity, you did not need it for a second. Mrs Lebanese has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, may I table the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u434	Put the amendment to the Minutes, Mr Kegeroglu. Shouldn't that be the show? Deposit it to be copied and distributed to those...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u435	I have to say first of all about her, Mr President, to be tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u436	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu. I will give you the floor for a minute after Mrs Lebanese. Here, Mrs Lebanese, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-Presidents of the Com mittee of Inquiry say they forget that we are only discussing the second budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. This government, with the constant support of the Greek people, is trying to cope with the catastrophe it has received in the worst possible economic and social conditions of post-population. There is no point in reminding us of the waste of public property and the overcompensation of public works accepted by the previous governments undoubtedly and by some of them unimportantly. The amazing amnesia of the New Democracy is causing. The crocodile tears above her victims only bring terror to Greek society. The citizens of this country have much better memory. Since January 2015, we have changed the essence of the negotiation and brought the consequences of cruel austerity to the fore. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The effort of social reconstruction began in 2016 with the first budget of the Government. It gives fruit despite the constant pressure, despite the constant obstacles created by the organized interests of elites, to prevent any attempt to redistribute socially. The establishment system cannot tolerate a political area that they try no matter how hard it is, they cannot define it, they cannot mutate it. The public interest is identical to the interests of many, with the protection of all those who have been treated as statistics or as a side loss. This government negotiates for man, fights for man, invests in man. We, ladies and gentlemen, are passive from this Chamber, we are neither, nor are we seeking to become professionals of politics, we are only interested in helping the country and its people. We do not give land and water to potential investors, we do not sacrifice the workers and the conquests of the social state, to have generations of disciplined and obedient citizens, we do not accept what the power of money protects. This budget is the principle of social equilibrium. We cannot return to a moment to everything that has been denied by the Memorandums society and those which have been depraved by the governments that have taken precedence over the years of molding development. For the great theft of the property of the Greeks was preceded by the economic crisis and the memorials. The accuracy and valuations of basic products were preceded by the memoranda. The fact that it is not enough work to live with dignity preceded the memorials. The aggressive policy of the banks was preceded by the memoranda. The overcompensation of households preceded the memorial tombs. The Memorandums that you brought up to 2014 abolished rights, drugged the social state and made a majority of the weak. That's what we're changing. We protect and improve the social state, restore social cohesion. We do not treat the state as a loot or as an endless pigeon. We know the limits. We are striving to increase the world's available incomes, production, available wealth, consumption. We are fighting for new permanent jobs, increasing wealth and being able to reduce tax rates fairly. Alexis Tsipras yesterday announced how the surplus achieved by the government in 2016 was made available. The announcement was translated by many as an announcement of elections. Hunger for election power is dreaming. New Democracy cannot accept that there is a government that supports our weak fellow citizens. For you the support of the weak is an election trick, for us it is a conscious choice. The Prime Minister was committed as of January 2015, when the government succeeded in reducing the targets that New Democracy and PASOK had accepted for excessive surpluses. SYRIZA was clear: The surpluses will be made available to those who need, to those who are weak, to those who need our support to live. The Prime Minister's announcement is not a pre-election service. It's ideology, it's our attitude to state management, it's our indiscriminate relationship to society, which leads to developments on the basis of real needs and real potential. As the Prime Minister said, the distribution of the surplus is our sovereign right. As a sovereign state, we are deciding to suspend VAT increases on the islands that accept the large flows of refugees and to grant emergency aid to the low-pension workers. Yes, it is our sovereign right, a right assigned by the previous governments and Alexis Tsipras and the government regained it. The people know it, see it and feel it. The government will take out the political time it has. Our goal at the end of the four-year period, social conditions should be better for all, without retreating from our principles. We fight and we bring results. The budget for 2017 is improved in relation to 2016. He gives more to those in need. It gives resources to health, social protection, education. He reclaims a decent living for everyone. The foundations of a new social state come in. We are creating conditions for new jobs. Income is secured for more positions. A national social inclusion mechanism is envisaged in contrast to the policies of the previous governments which have massively led the population to the margin. We establish social incomes of solidarity, to live with dignity more and to reintegrate into economic life by those who are in productive age. It is true that we deprive large businesses and potential investors of cheap labour, indirectly force them to become attractive to workers. At the same time, we support culture and sport really through the delay. Despite the poverty of money, we make full use of European resources, and thanks to the valuableness of the people of culture, we also ensure, in these circumstances, the necessary resources. The government succeeds without creating new holes in the budget and meets the enormous refugee crisis at the same time. This budget is the beginning of recovery. There is an increase in the income available to hundreds of thousands of our poor fellow citizens. These new incomes will increase consumption and permanent jobs by extending the tax base to allow tax reductions. The Government is consistent with its objective of a sustainable economy within a rule of law, democracy and transparency. We are voting in favour of the budget with deep faith in this government that finally gets the country out of the comitology that you put it into.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u438	Good evening. Mrs Kozobol has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u439	Madam President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u440	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Madam President. To restore the truth, therefore, of what Mr Varvitsiotis referred to, falsely, in the Minutes of the House, I am tabling the amendment No 448/12-4-13 to a bill by the Ministry of Shipping in the Minister of Finance, Mr Mousouroulis, which, for the first time, refers to minimum security communication, to our security vessel and to our obligation by the Constitution to ensure the minimum communication of the islands. I testify to it for restoring the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u442	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u443	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u444	He didn't say anything, Mr. Varvichiotis. He's gonna file a document. Study the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u445	I am honestly going to acknowledge that Mr Kegeroglu had indeed tabled this amendment. And I would like to remind you and remind the fellow Member that at that time neither his nor the Members of the New Democracy had been accepted by the tripartite - then - government, because there was no support required by all the political forces, which was then made in 2014. I am well aware of the negotiations with the PASOK leadership, so that it can accept that arrangement, which we now call on the government to implement and not lick.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u446	Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at a very critical juncture for our country, for Europe, for the world we are debating here today, four days now, the 2017 budget. One would expect that all the wings of the Parliament would make a criticism of this kind that would help to create this law, which will become the law of the state shortly, and which will be the road map for 2017, the map that our country will walk. Instead, what do we see? I have consistently supported only one objective, to dismantle the proposed plan, without arguments, distorting and abuse the truth, and repeating them themselves, even though they have been answered again - he responded and again - he responded again and again - and again - he responded. No contribution, no proposal to the plan that will be the roadmap to be taken by our country in 2017. Unique anguish of all, particularly of the Officerial Response, is to prove that the present government prevented them - the Civic Opposition and the PASOK, which at the time was co-government - from completing their successful course. They forget a detail that their choice was to launch the election of the President of the Republic in October 2014 instead of March 2015. They forget that the second programme, which the country was then going through, ended in February 2015, but the country's image was in dissolution. There was no prospect of exiting that program, nor of closing the notorious fifth evaluation. What are the undisputed evidence? While the borrowing rates in spring 2014 were 6.5%, in December, which Mr Venizelos told us before they would come out of the program, they would touch 9%, and they would have to go down if it were true what he was saying. The 2014 expected and notorious surplus proved to be a deficit. According to the EUROSTAT tables, there was a white hole of 700m euros in the OTAs and the region, and even 4,7 billion euros in the insurance sector, while there was a deficit before. The Greek state borrowed this money from the troika, entered a special account and locked up and took the green light from the troika to record it as revenue. This is the famous primary surplus of 2014, which prevented them from going on as a success. Debt was unthinkable, at 181% of GDP. The resources of the ESRB were overcompensated and inactive. The third programme was inevitable. What was the solution? We're running elections. SYRIZA can't handle it. We're coming again victorious, trojans and saviors. In just one thing, the previous conflict was right that the situation in the country was unmanageable and that they were well aware of. Really, that's what it was when we took over. Two years later, friends and opponents, everyone agrees that the country has stopped its downward trend in economic and social sectors. Now, everything shows that 2016 will prove the first year of a new phased, but stable and healthy growth period, which will continue in 2017. This is done at a time of serious refugee crisis, which has tried and still testifies politically, economicly and institutionally, not only in our country but also throughout Europe. At this juncture, the budget recently adopted by the Eurogroup is realistic, in that it balances between the obligations of the country under the loan agreement and between the efforts to implement a parallel programme in favour of the weak. It is a budget of solidarity with the weak and developmental. The credibility of the Greek economy has increased and the relevant indicators reflect the improvement of the climate in question. The unemployment rate of 28% of 2013 is falling slowly, but stable at 24.9% in 2015 and is expected to fall to 23.5% in 2016. The State's expenditure shall be rationalised. The total budget expenditure of EUR 49.1 billion has been retained, reduced by EUR 1.3 billion, estimated to be in 2016, but without reducing expenditure on education, health, which is on the contrary increasing. Without reducing the costs of state wages and pensions. Without breaking the social state, which is being strengthened, as has been said in this Chamber by many speakers. It is noted that the specific reduction in the costs mentioned above does not take into account everything that will save the Greek State from the adoption of laws, such as the compulsory introduction of electronic paper-sharing and other sectors that have taken place in the public sector, which, in addition to the fight against bureaucracy, in addition to the transparency that is being promoted, save hundreds of millions of euros. Tax burdens are shifted from low incomes to higher incomes. For example, the revenues from the ENPI are 2.65 billion in spite of the reduction of the objective values, but a part of the revenues has been moved toward the large-scale owners. Approximately 75% pays the same amount and less for this tax, HNPHA, 25% pays very little, little, 10 euros measured higher HNPH and only one 0.3% pays a higher amount than in the past. They are treated globally, part - it ends and its last part comes - the red loans and the extrajudicial compromise is introduced, which is a restructuring of the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises. The present government's forefront of the conflict has kept it stable, even though it has proved to be Lernaia Hydra. The Committee of Inquiry completes its work and delivers its findings this month. The money route from the banks to specific media and parties without securing, without a hope of repayment, the same time that hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises were closed down. Do we have any signs of recovery? Yes, we have the consistent flow of deposits with the corresponding relaxation of capital controls, the reduction of borrowing interest rates - very important - that our ten-year bonds now have an interest rate of 6.3%, the consolidation of the NRP programmes - overcompensation and inertia so far all programmes - over double the primary surplus in 2016, exceeded in 2017. These are objectives, which are aimed at achieving them by social justice, with a fair sharing of the burden of budgetary adjustment and the achievement of surpluses, with a fair sharing of the benefit. We are aware of the social reality, the difficult daily life of the citizen. The citizen, however, despite the bombing of "friendly" to the media government, sees the institutional safeguarding and expansion of the income of social solidarity, which has so far been implemented pilotally. We have the strengthening of employment through employment benefit and not unemployment, the upgrading of health and care services. Public health structures can serve with dignity both our insured and our insecure fellow citizens. Farmers at 80% to 90% will see a zero tax as an obligation to pay, while rural development programmes will give great opportunities to themselves and improve their lives and the country's lives through productive reconstruction. All those good-faithed people see it. They see that the water has entered the groove and it's hard to divert those Siomples and their allies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u448	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, the easy thing for me today would be to take this speech into account in describing the rapid deregulation brought by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK on the Greek labour market, especially between 2010 and 2014, the most serious legislative framework that these political forces have inherited into the labour world, a framework that has reduced their wages horizontally, abolished labour and insurance rights. I fully remind you of Laws 3845/2010, 3863/2010, 3986/2011, 4024/2011, the famous Act of Ministerial Council of 2012, Law 4093/2012 and many, many others. I would have been very easy, because in the current issue of negotiating with institutions, in the matter of collective bargaining, the overturns brought about by the 2010 and 2012 legislations were really dramatic. The collective forms of fictitious representation of employees, the associations of persons have been given the opportunity to sign collective labour agreements. The principle of better regulation for workers was suspended, and so was the principle of the expansion of sectoral collective agreements. Reinsurance was reduced suffocatingly, the minimum wage was reduced by 22% and by 32% for workers under twenty-five years. Wedding allowance was abolished, the pre-service allowance for those paid with the minimum wage was reduced. The wage growths have been frozen. The workers' right to unilateral referral to arbitration has also been abolished. To refer to the other topical issue of negotiation with institutions, that of group redundancies, I would remind you that by law of 2010 the limit of group redundancies has been increased, while a number of arrangements at the same time related to redundancies and redundancies, the time of warning about redundancies, have rapidly aggravated the position of workers. And as if not all of this were enough, we have heard these days from a representative of the Officerial Representation claiming that the liberalisation of group redundancies is a precondition for attracting investment. So it would be easy for me to use myself in this criticism. There's too much material to do. We know, however, that our aim is not to respond to a degraded political staff from a collapsed political system, but to address the problems created by his policy and which the majority of workers are experiencing today. The employment relations policies adopted between 2010 and 2014 and the measures taken by the laws mentioned above, were not only contrary to the fundamental principles of our legal culture. They were, above all, unfair measures, unethical measures, destructive measures. These measures served a central objective which has been formulated many times, to improve the competitiveness of the Greek economy on the basis of the collapse of work. And to this end, our Government has had and will aim to reverse these political choices by implementing a series of measures to protect the lower layers of unemployment, creating new jobs, supporting the redistribution of incomes in favour of the world of work, which is a prerequisite for growth and not a result of it, claiming the safeguarding and implementation in practice of collective bargaining, which are a fundamental precondition for ensuring the rights of workers in our country. That is why in negotiating with the lenders, in view of the completion of the second assessment, we are fighting this battle to restore collective bargaining in Greece, those that Mr Mitsotakis described as left-wing ideals, so that workers can regain negotiating power and be able to claim better working conditions. This is a position fully in line with the good practices in force in the European Union, a position supported by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, a position supported by the International Labour Organisation, supported by the well-known conclusion of the Committee of Experts. And that position is not only ideological. It is a position that reflects in the clearest way what development we want. For us, it is fair to develop on the basis of strengthening labour rights, not overcompression of labour costs. We want growth, which is the condition of redistribution of income in favour of the world of work. And the functioning of the collective bargaining mechanism puts precisely this necessary foundation, the foundation for employee participation in the achievement of growth, in order to simplify its results throughout society. For the development we are talking about, there needs to be a sound system of collective bargaining through which primary distribution of the product produced in the form of wages will take place. Primarily and not retrospectively. That is why collective agreements are important, so their reinstatement is a central political demand for our government. The self-evident precondition for fair growth is that the cycle of labour deregulation should be permanently closed. That is why we are resisting the release of the collective redundancies sought by the large business groups and the International Monetary Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to many colleagues and colleagues in the past few days referring to the absence of a parallel programme by our Government. I would like to focus on a few points which I consider to be very important and characteristic of the hard work done at the Ministry of Labour to improve the daily lives of citizens, initiatives that you will certainly not see in a news report. Labour Residence Agency. What did we receive from the OEC? Eleven thousand thirty - four houses for which the definitive concessions have not been granted to date. What does that mean? People who in many cases reside in the respective settlements, even since 1978, are not considered owners of their homes until today. It goes without saying that the suffering of people and, on the other hand, the reduction in the revenues of today's GDP is a matter of course. The leadership of the Ministry of Labour from the very beginning initiated the procedures necessary to solve this problem. We solved the issue of Olympic Village. We have set up a committee, which has just given us its conclusion, and today we are announcing from the Step of the House that the procedures for the issue of final concessions are under way to all the beneficiaries, having ensured a uniform price for all. We paid exceptional financial aid of EUR 1 000 to several companies made redundant. From April 2015 until the end of 2016, approximately EUR 4 million is to be paid to four thousand workers. A provision which is included in a bill currently submitted to Parliament is exempted from the obligation to pay the sum of EUR 46 for the use of CSR services all uninsured persons. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] In the days of our own government, we have dismantled the state - a contractor that had been set up over the past few years, an action which is socially fair to workers and workers who have stopped being exploited by each contractor and which has yielded revenue to the public funds. As far as the Ministry of Labour is concerned, for 2016 we reduced the cost of storage by EUR 46,000 and the cost of cleaning by EUR 16,000. In the same direction, through the 2017 budget, a budget to be decided within the given circumstances, we emphasise the issues of the social state, on the basis of three priorities: The first axis is the reconstruction of the social state: industrial relations, collective agreements, the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, active employment and social economy policies, the reconstruction of the structures of the social state. The second axis is the reconstruction of the public health system, its expansion to primary care and the staffing of its structures. The third axis is education, issues relating to universal access to public school and university, to the radical reorientation of educational and learning processes. Allow me, in the very short time available, to refer to the Ministry, for some of which my colleagues, Mrs Theanos Fotio, Mrs Rania Antonopoulou and Mr Tasos Petropoulos have already spoken in detail. The first area of policy is to deal with infringements in the labour market. We heard a spokesman for the Officer's Representation to refer to the Labour Inspectorate and welcome that she has upgraded her work and thus managed to put a class in the labour market. He obviously does not know that the international literature, to which the International Labour Organisation contributes, says that there is no way of dealing with the infrastability in the labour market when the system of collective agreements has collapsed. Rather, the International Labour Organisation also shares our obsessions or our ideas about collective agreements! But, suppose we put aside the question of collective agreements that you served and continue to defend their dissolution. Can you really refer to the work of the APRC, when its legal service has been dismantled over the days of the previous conflict? Do you know any example from all over Europe where labour inspectors do not have the necessary legal help in their work? Your perception of the Labour Inspectorate is so profound that even the fines, which are largely stolen resources from the social security system, you have made sure that they go to taxes rather than to what they should. This government is doing everything it needs to improve the administrative and organisational work of the Labour Inspectorate, to create a legislative framework, which really contributes to combating infractionality and not simply to transform it from the overall undeclared work. We have already ensured that the EDP fines are paid to the social security system since the new year. We are planning to reform the fines so as to provide incentives for workers to address the Labour Inspectorate. In cooperation with the International Labour Organisation, we have already planned an extensive action plan. A series of information structures have been designed for workers on labour law issues, and the process of ratification of the International Labour Convention number 129 is under way, which will mean the possibility for the Labour Inspectorate to carry out universal control of the work in the rural area. One more thing: All evidence shows a steady rise in accidents at work within the crisis. We're not closing our eyes in this situation. We are reassessing the framework for health, safety and occupational diseases as a whole. The aim here cannot be accounting, at the level of fines, but rather at the reduction of accidents. Second Axis: Social security. In the area of social security, the Government focuses on the implementation of social security reform, which establishes a single social security system, with national pension as the main focus, aimed at tackling poverty and social exclusion. The national pension is not financed by insurance contributions, but by the state budget. All those who have a pension right, regardless of income criteria, are granted to all. Our aim in this area of policy was to serve the social needs of the majority and especially the weakest strata. To this end, in this direction, and yesterday's Prime Minister's announcement of effective support for low pensioners demonstrates that despite difficulties, despite the negative European correlation, we are creating the space for a different policy. In social policy, Mrs Theanos Fotou has already informed her that from 1-1-2017 the implementation of the Social Solidarity Income, for which €760 million was provided, is expected to benefit more than seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. And I want to say something about employment. I feel the need to place myself against a parafiscality that exists around this area. So far, the best balance of recruitment - redundancies has been recorded over the past fifteen years. Obviously, no one is entitled to celebrate. We are well aware of the situation in the labour market, so we are also fighting the great battle for the return of collective agreements. However, we cannot, in the interests of political confrontation, read reality at hand. As part of the employment enhancement, the Ministry of Labour has implemented programmes for thirty-eight thousand unemployed in 2016 and employment programmes have been planned for a total of eighty-six thousand unemployed for the last two months of 2016 and for 2017. Through the revision of the framework of public benefit programmes, we have managed to extend it from five to eight months, which enables the worker to have the right to join the Unemployment Fund. Similarly, we have ensured full work rights for participants in labour market entry programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we are at the top of a critical assessment, which is a central point of which is the issue of industrial relations. In the very near future we have had a circle of international contacts with political forces and trade unions. We have received a wide range of support and solidarity in the positions of the Greek Government for the reintroduction of the acquis communautaire to the Greek labour market, for the recovery of major collective labour rights. In this conflict in employment Greece is the mirror of Europe's future. That is why all the political forces in Greece and Europe must take a clear position. We have long stated our position. We are with the world of work and we clearly state that Europe cannot impose on Greece an exception status from the context of the social conquests of the people and its history. The situation is critical, but it is not irreversible. We can also give an important signal that social conquests are an important part of this country and that of Europe, not just in terms of tradition but in terms of the future that we want to build within it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u450	Mr Bassiakos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u451	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a budget which records a picture - it is supposed - of optimism for recovery of the economy, improvement of indicators and restoration of social peace. Unfortunately, the picture presented in the budget is misleading because the sizes of the Greek economy, an economy which is suffering from a high rate of unemployment, are devastating. The unemployed are 24%. Young unemployed are at the highest level worldwide, 52%. There is a study which gives Greece the highest rate, with Spain in 48% second. We have increased unemployment by eighty-two thousand in October. And beyond that, we have a relocation of Greek, productive ages, young people mainly. In recent years four hundred and fifty thousand have left abroad. This is exacerbating the already tense and acute crisis in the demographic crisis that we are facing. We have very serious issues of deindustrialisation, disinvestment and an increase in unemployment, and that is why. There is unfortunately no incentive to establish and operate industries to attract foreign investment, since, apart from bureaucracy, in addition to high taxation, in addition to capital controls, we have the very tempting motives, which are recorded in neighbouring countries, in Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus, in many other countries. Instead of teaching all of us the institutional framework with which investment is attracted to neighbouring countries, we are creating more challenges. Recent example is the abolition of Law 4262 on the authorisations of the Hatzidakis Act, which was a model law, and the delay in the implementation of any measure, since it is necessary, beyond the two-year delay, to include new ministerial decisions and new delays and, of course, the information system, which is not going to work before the deadline for many months. So Greece does not encourage investment, it does not create a climate of attraction for investment, rather it discourages investment and indirectly discourages the improvement of employment levels. Why should young people stay in Greece? That's why young people are leaving. Why should a business operate in our country when it sees such a high tax? Of course, it is not just the professional sector that is in trouble, with the thirty thousand cases of closure of businesses, which are causing a huge problem in cities, families, workers. It is also the problem of the agricultural sector, the primary sector. The last arrangement for the advance payment of such a high income tax, regardless of whether a professional or farmer can produce next year, creates a complete dead end. Increased insurance contributions, serious problems in general terms in these sectors, coupled with the very increased cost of production, particularly of farmers, oil, electricity, delays in returning VAT or excise duty and in many other respects, creates a deadlock and obviously promotes a reduction in the active rural population of our country, with huge social and national consequences, since the unemployed farmers who are relocated to urban centres will create a much greater problem of policing, a social problem that we will find before us. When we say, then, that tax must be reduced, we obviously believe that in this way we may receive more revenue, because the increase in VAT in some species, unfortunately, creates a reduction in revenue. As bizarre as it may seem to the public, the increase in the VAT rate results in a reduction in State VAT revenues. This has been proved in practice. Of course we also have the serious problems of delaying the implementation of development programmes. I am referring to the NRP, to the Community Programme for Rural Development, which is far too far behind. I am also talking about serious problems of delaying the use of financial instruments, such as the Juncker package and many others, which could help finance the Greek economy and especially the production base. How can we proceed with these developments, reduce bureaucracy? Unfortunately, many additional stumblings are inserted daily, with laws, with the delay in signing ministerial decisions in any activity that has to do with state, through public procedures. Of course, all this is happening in a circle that we hear threats from neighbouring countries, from the East, from Turkey, we have the Cyprus problem under way, we have threats from Albania or from Skopje, and of course we have the huge problem of entering our country of refugees and immigrants, without any programme, without any programming and advancement, which affects not only society but also the economy of many regions. Unfortunately, we are not making use of the funds that we can receive from both Community and other resources to meet the increased needs these problems create in our country. You see, then, that there is a serious management problem and I am sorry that the ministers are also happy and that the situation is very optimistic, with the result that, at the very least, they are having a hard time convincing creditors. I have already heard the Minister for Labour. He was very happy to talk about developments. How are you going to negotiate with the lenders when you tell them that all this is too good? At the time you say everything is pink, you go and negotiate with lenders on improving terms. And I think that this is not the right way of dealing with it. The Prime Minister announced the provision of EUR 650 million to specific social groups of pensioners, while there are the unemployed who have a greater problem, for example, at the same time that the adoption of pensions of EUR 850 million is delayed. From a political will, did you delay the approval of pensions by government? All of these are morbid phenomena, which unfortunately do not foresee better days for the Greek economy and the Greek society, at a time when the challenges are most severe from everywhere, where geopolitical conditions are difficult, unfavourable, difficult for all of us and we do not use comparative advantages of our country. Instead of becoming an example and a model for development, in relation to the comparative geopolitical advantages it has and this should be the basic criterion and a provision for our negotiation, we are delaying or creating problems and obstacles to the normal course of the Greek economy. I would just like to say that the New Democracy does not promise. The President of the Kyriakos Mitsotakis Party, in the context of the agreement of the truth, said a few things, but effective. We don't want to say nice words in the eunuchs, because that was in the conditions of the past. In the five things that he did - if you want to - wrongly - the previous period of governance, by the parties that ruled us, unfortunately the parties at the time of the opposition asked for ten. That must disappear, we must be honest, we must be honest, we must be consistent with the citizen if we really want credibility in the political system, which unfortunately has collapsed. This is how we will be going, seriously and responsibly, so that we can really solve the serious problems and not move in the form of populism, taking advantage of poverty, weaknesses, problems and despair of large groups of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u452	Let me inform you that tomorrow the meeting will begin at noon, and according to the programme at about nine we will be done and the vote will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u453	Not at 12 o'clock?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u454	The Rules of Procedure say 'up to 12', not 'at 12'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the preparation of a budget and therefore also of the 2017 budget is a fairly complex exercise for one main reason, attempting to achieve multiple objectives with only one instrument, the size of the primary balance of the general government or, as usual, the size of the surplus or budget deficit. First of all, it is trying - or should have attempted - to maintain the budgetary balance so that the credibility of budgetary policy can be fully consolidated and recovered. I would like to stress that the credibility of budgetary policy is gained very difficult and is dispersed very easily. The history of forty years until the beginning of the major recession of 2010-2015 is indicative when the two major parties were spending rain - snow, regardless of whether the economy was going well or not. At the same time, it is a prerequisite for the country's successful exit from the programme, so it is a prerequisite for the success of the work of the Left Government. Secondly, the budget is trying or should try to support economic activity with appropriate countercyclical policies, when the economy is in recession, as it has been in the last five years and when the financial area exists. Thirdly, it attempts or should try to increase the level of public investment in order to support the growth rate in the medium to long term, where the private economy cannot act. Finally, it attempts or should attempt to redistribute available resources to protect financially vulnerable households and to further strengthen social cohesion. But these multiple targets with only one tool, the size of the primary balance, puts a series of difficult and interdependent dilemmas. Such a dilemma is the dilemma between budgetary equilibrium and hence credibility, on the one hand, and budget expansion and the consequences of the recession on the other. Obviously, fiscal equilibrium presupposes the achievement of small, even primary surpluses. But, on the other hand, budget expansion involves even smaller surpluses or, where necessary, budgetary deficits. It is therefore a difficult political, economic dilemma. A similar dilemma is the allocation of the available budgetary resources between public investment, i.e. expenditure with future returns on wages and pensions, transfer payments for social protection, on the other hand. The third crucial dilemma faced by an economic policy operator and budget preparation is the dilemma between strengthening the economic weaknesses on the one hand, the most vulnerable households, if you like, who usually have neither a voice nor a political representation, and, on the other, the burden of medium or upper layers that have resources and at the same time also have voice and political representation. It is a very difficult economic political dilemma, because if anyone wants to make a real redistribution, they must also receive the corresponding political cost. Because social redistribution also has economic and political costs. I would say that the assessment of a budget is judged by how reliable and honest it answers the above dilemmas. And finally, his success is judged at the end of the year by the progress of the economy and the good management of Greek taxpayers' money. I would even say here that the 2016 budget, which is still being implemented, as it has not finished the financial year, has already been successful, firstly because it has contributed to the consolidation of confidence in the Greek economy, I have no doubt that the much better performance of the Greek economy in 2016 than that we predicted and predicted by many, and the Civic Opposition among them is due to good financial management - while at the same time, the budget has strengthened the households that were on the poverty line with the sum of EUR 272 million in extremely suffocating conditions. Our forecast is that the 2016 budget will be closed with considerable overrun and that it will exceed 1 billion, part of which, as announced yesterday, will be returned targetedly where it should be returned. I have listened with great attention and interest to the positions of all parties and, above all, the Officerial Response. Despite the positive criticisms some of them have had, I think they have all avoided seeing the budget just as I described it before, as a system of dilemmas, if you like, as a system of general balance. And it makes sense, as they do not have the responsibility of governance and can easily avoid dealing with the respective dilemmas. But the reality - and I am addressing the New Democracy above all - is irreversible. And we should be honest, because honesty is the foundation of democracy. For example, it is not enough for one to resign from the government to increase taxes and quasi-responsible policies without explaining how it will simultaneously maintain the budgetary balance, how it will not put the country into a new adventure of new programmes. It is not enough to refer to a reduction in taxes, that is to say, a reduction in taxes of EUR 4.2 billion, as the Census does, without explaining what costs will be cut. Because if you look at page 57 of the budget, primary operating expenditure, that is, the expenditure you say you will cut, to finance reduced taxes of EUR 4.2 million, is less than EUR 6 billion. Reductions, therefore, tax by EUR 4.2 million or drop the economy into a new adventure or lead to a significant reduction in wages, pensions and social protection. Furthermore, it is not enough to say that it will be socially supportive of low incomes without at the same time taking over the political cost of charging the higher, but unfortunately also of middle-grade layers in crisis, even on a temporary basis, as I recognise that we are doing, because we are taking this political cost. The 2017 budget, therefore, in this context, I would say in an extremely difficult financial and macroeconomic context, has set the following objectives: first of all, further consolidation and full recovery of budgetary credibility, so that within the next year the country is already able to raise funds from international markets and eliminate once and for all the international committee that dictates adjustment programmes. Reliability has a price and the price of reliability is the long-term borrowing rate. The more you recover credibility, the less this price is reduced and the more it allows the country to borrow directly and quickly, I would say, from the markets. The second objective of the budget: the necessary financial adjustment must be made in a socially fair manner, with social justice. In 2015, in the context of the implementation of a budget already drafted by the previous government, the Left Government found the resources, found EUR 100 million to start the humanitarian crisis program and support our weakest financial fellow citizens. In 2016, with the budget now being implemented, it budgeted funds of EUR 272 million for the same reason. The next budget which will be voted on tomorrow by Parliament incorporates EUR 760 million for the financial support of vulnerable households, another EUR 300 million for the budget of the Ministries of Health and Education and an additional EUR 250 million for the support of public investment, precisely because the co-financed part will be reduced by what. In the medium term, during 2017 as well as in the draft budget report, the aim of the Government is to create an additional budget area where there is, first of all, the completion of the review of primary operational expenditure which has been launched at pilot level since September and, secondly, to extend the tax base through a number of actions, the most characteristic of which are the additional incentives, the new incentives for the extended use of electronic means of payment, so that the 2018 budget is even more socially just and even more developmental. No one celebrates and no one has the right to celebrate as long as the country is in a adjustment programme, as long as it does not have the power to borrow from the markets and therefore to recover degrees of freedom, as long as we do not have the possibility of exercising the budgetary policy that we would like to pursue, a countercyclical fiscal policy in crisis, with an enhanced index of social protection. Nevertheless, fiscal policy and, more generally, economic progress, from the first signs at least in the last six months, is particularly encouraging. We now know that the recession ended in the second quarter of 2016, as we said when the opposition accused the government of further plunging the country into the recession. The remission was typically completed in the second quarter of 2016. In the third quarter of 2016, the quarterly growth rate was 0.8% and the annual rate was 1.8%. At the same time, for fourth consecutive month the influx of net deposits to banks exceeded one billion euros, part of which goes to time deposit accounts, forward accounts, showing that the credit system is slowly recovering the citizens' confidence again. These are not just our assessments. It is basically the estimates that the markets themselves do, if you like. Here it is interesting to compare the course of Greek debt borrowing rates today, in December - I would say, from mid-November - with Greek debt borrowing rates, only six months before, after the completion of the first rating. If you see the course of the Greek debt interest rates in May and June, it was indeed downwards, but the downward trend was quickly and sharply recovered after the British referendum, precisely because the British referendum brought uncertainty over the global economy and, consequently, the Greek one. Now, corresponding uncertainty has been caused by the American elections and the expectation that the new US administration's economic policy will lead to an international increase in interest rates. Indeed, many European regional interest rates - but not only - started to rise again. The exception was in November and December the Greek interest rates which continued to decrease to levels of 6.4% and 6.5%, the second better from the start of the crisis to the present day. Our priority is to strengthen and protect, I would say, the recovery of the Greek economy. The key to this path is the immediate completion of the second assessment and the rapid integration of the country into the Quantitative Relaxation programme of the European Central Bank, so that uncertainty does not return above the Greek economy, but at the same time the Greek economy also meets the challenges and risks that move over Europe from a position of security and power. We've already closed the vast majority of the reviews files. I shall mention here, for example, the dossiers of reforms on product markets, the financial sector, health, education, tax administration and elsewhere. I would say that the great openness that remains to the completion of the second assessment is undoubtedly the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme. The International Monetary Fund is linked to its participation in the Greek programme, with the advance adoption of measures of the order of 2.5 % of GDP or 4.5 billion euros for 2019, with advance legislation in December 2016. The position of the Fund is based on its own assessment that in 2018, 2019 and beyond, the Greek economy is unable to catch the 3.5% target, as envisaged by the programme. I would like to stress here that the same instrument leading the International Monetary Fund to provide for a much lower budget performance in 2018 and 2019, has led the Fund to consider that in 2015 the budget would close with a deficit of minus 0.6%, while it closed with a surplus of 0.2%, that the 2016 budget would be closed with a deficit of minus 0.5%, while it seems to be closed with an overrun of 0.06% of GDP, overall with a surplus of 1.1% and so on. The Greek Government is confidently building the alliances it needs to build in Europe, exploiting the breaches within the European institutions and is confident that the assessment will be quickly closed, the orbit of economic recovery will be maintained, the economy will come out of the recession and the program, as expected, within 2017 and 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u456	I will give the floor to Mr Pafile, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u457	I do not wish to respond in detail to Mr Juliarakis who made a serious and low-track speech, for the reason that we are radically in a different direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u458	Aren't you both Marxists?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u459	It also appeared from the speech that the dialogue is a family, among you in the New Democracy, in Potami, to all - and finally - that you voted together in the third memorandum. I'll say later about it. Our starting point is completely different. We cannot get into this phony truck - which sometimes becomes a little offensive to the people - for who did the worst or who did the best. I would say that you and Socrates' apologies and the billionaires, and on the other hand, the extreme criticism that "We had everything ready to take off the plane and you landed it." The continuity of each other is. Why am I saying that? I say this because the Communist Party of Greece starts from another starting point: first of all, who produces wealth? So who produces it, the workers or the capitalists? We call the workers. We say capitalists are parasites. So, owners of this wealth must be the ones producing it. Who else says that? Nobody. Secondly, what needs should society meet today? We say the needs of the workers who are increasingly, ever more widespread. What do you think? You say: 'This is what we can do.' In this "we can" we respond to the potential of society today, based on technological development, based on labour productivity, based on the education that exists, based on the wealth produced worldwide and resulting in a handful of exploiters who have unblemished things. 0.7% of the world's population has 45% to 46% of world GDP, according to reports, not from the JRC, SWISS, if I am not mistaken. Therefore, we cannot enter your dialogue. Fight as long as you want. On the same stadium you play because you have some common references. That's why I talked about a family fight. What are these reports? Let the people judge whether we are right or wrong. Firstly, the capitalist development path is unnegotiable. Mr Juliarakis, you have made a good position on how we can go better - that's what you actually say - this capitalist development path and not the New Democracy. You said a number of factors. I'll comment on them later. So we say that the second is the Holy Family. This is where everyone will leave the European Union and you will say 'Have the European Union!'. Here, literally, hell is happening to the European peoples, hell to the workers, and you're there 'Europe is changing'. Is it changing, Mr. Mada? Isn't that what you were saying? We said it's changing and getting worse. You said the Promised Land was coming. So you are united by the European Union. And the European Union has never been anything different. If today she shows a harder person, it doesn't mean she was a good one. Minister, in relation to collective agreements, I would like to tell you that the eruption of collective agreements began with the Green Paper. I happen to be a Member of the European Parliament and to have memorized what he said. He said, therefore, that traditional working relationships with collective agreements do not correspond to the current level of economic growth and do not serve competitiveness. That is why we need to make individual regulations on the labour market." And tell you what they voted for? We voted against the PASOK and the New Democracy in favour and Papadimoulou "WHITE". And I'm saying a name because there was a whole episode. So they're joining you. Therefore, the debate is taking place within the walls not to change, but to how we will manage this barbarity that the entire humanity and the Greek people live. And thirdly, of course, Mr Papadimitriou said so in his speech, and so - is that you voted for the memorandum. Well, don't you know what you voted for? The New Democracy, what did you vote for? Strategic? Is the strategy something special? Did they not know the other parties that voted for a third memorandum or did SYRIZA not know what it voted for and that it was a painful compromise? Painful of what? So we say that we have another starting point and we tell the people "You all belong, take the power, raise the head and take it. And do not accept merciful and accept proclamations, as we have given you 100 million." So what? How much have you spent on him for so many years? What insurance system? How many billions? How much blood? How much exploitation? Who made this world here and you're all acting like you're already giving it to him? What do you give him? So let's go to the budget to talk about reality. Is this budget different from the previous ones? Is he moving to another line? We say he's classic, cruel and inhuman, just like everyone else. Because in the capitalist system - and some others have said so, not all - these budgets do: they redistribute the social product produced to the benefit of those who possess power and the economy, that is to say, to the benefit of capital. And they take it from the workers. Does this budget change its lines or does 100 million and 200 million and 300 million change its character and strategy? Oh, no! Where does he get from? It takes 3.1 billion plus, i.e. plus, to speak Greek, all the previous wild tax. Where do you get these from? Immediately, it's increasing. Who? You're reducing it to legal persons. The indirect increase is increasing. What is indirect taxation? It's the most barbaric and most anti-popular taxes! What are you doing with her? You're reducing her to relieve the folk mattresses? Oh, no. You're raising her! And I do not need to list them, because our speakers have said them, and our rapporteur, VAT, gas, oil, cigarettes, whatever you want. Only in the air we breathe you haven't taxed yet! You'll soon count the chest, you and the others, so I won't blame anyone. So where are you from? And that's the class matter. Get out of the popular mattresses. How much do you get from the "large"? Because I heard Mr. Juliarakis. Mr. Juliarakis, you told us you were in the middle. - and the upper ones. What superior? From the shipowners, what do you get?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u460	The BSE answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u461	From the shipowners, what do you get? What? That you're burdening them? Well, we'll tell you later how much you're burdening them. If that's the case, you should blame us like that! If it is, we accept it. If that is the burden of the highest, do it to the workers! Apply the same policy! So I say you get them from there. So here's the first sample of toxicity and cruelty. Secondly, you reduce spending. Where do you reduce your costs? One billion from a reduction in wages and pensions. Total, not to mention numbers, EUR 1650,000 expenditure reductions. Where are the cost reductions from the luxurious life? No, of course not. Again from the workers. You are returning the EUR 871 - and if they are returned - and that is what you say is social policy, as are the announcements. May I propose to you? Give me a grand, give you two hundred dollars back, so you'll be happy too, and I'll say I'm making a social policy. That's exactly what you're doing. That's what you're doing! You've ended up fighting generations. It's just shameful that you say it. In my opinion, and in our opinion, it is unacceptable to order that "we give you EUR 500 or EUR 300". Who, really, are you giving them to? To those who built modern Greece, with sweat, blood, generations of our entire fathers, our own, and who stole them, among others, even those who paid the insurance funds. Will you ever get from anyone behind anything? Because this is where the entire pluralism reigns, it has an indestructible property. Will you get it? Oh, no. And you go out now - and, in our opinion, it is a shame and I say it directly, because you could with very mild tones do so - and you say that from what we have had, we are giving it to us. Not like that. What are beggars? What is this world that runs, which makes an economy to give his child and his grandchildren? Aren't they the ones who made what you see around? Who made them? The oligarchy, which spends on a night while a worker's life and work cost? This system is also openly supported by the New Democracy. So he's not different. It is a tough, classic, wild budget, which adds new burdens to what has been created by the previous ones. For the upper layers, Mr. Juliaraki? To the unavoidable. Privileges, new privileges, new development packages, new tax exemptions for business groups, right? That is what capitalist development requires. When you say the economic growth machine is capital, then you do this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall make it briefly, Madam President. Secondly, what are you doing differently, really, apart from satisfying the requirements of the capital that has been made by the New Democracy and which you continue to do? What has the capital been asking for for for many years? And the rupture began from the "White Bible" many years ago. Cheap labour force. Can you give it to her? Wages, hunger pensions. Industrial relations. What employment relationships? Madam Minister, apart from intentions, will you change the part-time, two-hour, three-hour jungle? You know what it means. I don't know if you're living here, but I imagine you know it, even theoretically, and you actually know it. This modern slavery, will you change it? Are we going to steady working relationships? No, because these are impeding competitiveness. That's all the paperwork you signed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, give me some time and I won't talk again. Second, freedom of professions, etc. The whole New Democracy has not been able to do it - and it is sad now - and you are doing it. What does that mean? Violent displacement of self-employed, traders, microprofessionals, etc. from the market for what? To get the monopolies - the law of capitalism is him - and you give it to them. What else do they want? Privatisations generalised, whether in the form of sale or in the form of rent. Aleka Papariga told you how and I don't want to repeat it. Do you do it, do you do it? You're implementing it! What else? The institutional framework will change. Meaning? We must build a state that best serves businessmen, monopolies, large capital. And that's what you're doing. Get rid of hooks, you say. All the basic checks were in place for them to disappear. So you're doing all this. What's the difference? In fact, I would say that you are applying them better in some areas and I will comment on it by end. And now you know what's happened. The New Democracy went to the OAED after the Memorandum of yours, and now it's over and time doesn't know what you're going to do, and that's why it's shouting. But he tells you, "We put up the carpet, we did all this, we were ready to do the rest, and he came to us and SYRIZA took the job and implements exactly the same policy!" It comes out on the tiles and pressures you to move even faster. And the crocodile tears about pensions, wages, etc., say them elsewhere. Eleven times you cut them, and you were ready, and you would cut them the next one. Leave all this, because the demands now on capital aren't the ones they used to be. They want it all - and the negotiators are aware of it - everything! They leave nothing, because capitalism can, at least, make some retreats. Is there going to be any growth? It's probably there. It, of course, depends on too much, on international factors and other circumstances, which are difficult. The question is: What terms? In other words, with the world being broken, working with a galerman working relationship and benefiting the big businessmen. So that's why they support you, because you're doing a good job. That is why the New Democracy is waiting - I say - in the OAED series, for it to be more noticeable. But there's something worse than that. What are you doing and why are they supporting you? You dismantle the system of capitalist. You're talking about corruption, about glue, like that's the problem. These of course exist, they are intertwined, but in the center there is a class opponent. There is no social cohesion and consensus, there are two classes which, throughout the history of humanity, conflict hard indeed, for who will have power. That's what you're hiding. Secondly, you despised NATO. You became the natonic and, after Obama's visit, the American Left. Really, such a vision is given to the left world and the progressive today, calling NATO to the Aegean, consecrating NATO, signing the first nuclear blow in Warsaw? What do you want to do? You are wretching, corrupting youth's consciences about NATO history, which is dyed with the blood of hundreds of millions of people all over the world. You're dismantling imperialism. We don't have imperialist interventions and wars. 'Conflicts', they say. I've had it for twenty years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Palphie, please, please finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u463	I'm done. Cultivate fatalism and fortify behind the negative correlation of forces. Listen, we don't fly into clouds. We know what the situation is and that it is difficult. But there are two options in the historical curves: one option is the one that says that I calculate the correlation of forces, which is negative and on this basis I organise counterattack and overthrow. And the other one is the one that says that I am subject to the association of forces and I serve the very barbarism. And I cultivate the illusion that humanity can be humanized, as it went ahead with the first perception, with those who in more difficult times and blacks even chose the way not of subjection, but of overthrowing. So there, to tell my neighbour Mr Manios, who tells us where we are present and absent, that we are present. And we are absent, to start backwards, from the photographs with Obama, we are absent in Kastelorizo with the Chrysayites, we are absent in the barbaric policy of the memorial and we are present and we tell the people: "Hey, you have the strength, you can, if you understand, overthrow this situation." There, we will also be present with our weaknesses, but we are not behind that. You good trip to capitalist barbarism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u464	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Papachristopoulos, who is also a parliamentary representative, I will call on Mr Jamaklis. After that, Mr. Papachristopoulos and then Mr. Salmas have the floor, so you know the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is being voted at a time very critical for the country. Within one month, the progress of the economy and the progress of this government's roadmap will be judged. A year ago, on the subject of the 2016 budget, we talked about a recovery budget. Today, firstly, the first assessment, secondly, is going to be completed and the second, thirdly, the sizes of the economy are recovering, fourthly, the country's position on issues of austerity, growth and debt are being strengthened due to the conditions that form new powers connections and new international alliances and fifthly, there are financial instruments to help the recovery of the economy. A peak, of course, is the six-monthly new development law, which seeks to turn to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurship of young people and innovation, to exploit the country's comparative advantages, namely its human potential and its climate. The self-evident and necessary simplification of the complex institutional and legal framework, which has contributed negatively to attracting foreign or domestic investment, due to the delays resulting in the establishment and operation of business plans, has been legislated for a few days and is expected to yield immediate results. The fight to get out of the crisis with society upright, the treaty indifferent to the previous governments who managed the crisis, is difficult. From the first moment on, this government's strategy is to help the most vulnerable layers and to do so in a series of measures and policies, culminating in yesterday's announcements by the Prime Minister and the pensioners. However, there are still great burdens still on the middle class and the self-employed, which we must alleviate. Achieving this government's objectives on tax evasion and smuggling will leave me as a financial area so that what is won goes to the market and to the social categories that have contributed disproportionately to their potential over the years. The role of reforms is also important. This government already counts important areas, which, in addition to the benefit of the state organisation, public administration and the service of citizens, also have a financial benefit, which is reflected in the 2017 budget. I mention examples from the fields of my own parliamentary activity, namely public administration and national defence: With the legislation of the Ministry of Administrative Reform for the transparent and worthwhile selection of public officials, the creation of the National Register and mobility, the plan to reduce bureaucracy is put in place, with what this means to reduce expenditure and to contribute public administration to the country's development effort. Accordingly, the structural reforms and development initiatives of the Ministry of National Defence include the development of real estate through the Ministry of Defence. In the unemployment sector there is a decline, but little, but significant. It may not be felt in society because of its large percentage. However, employment from January 2015 until today has increased by two hundred thousand jobs. It is important, too, that the OAED is reformed. It provides better services and responds more to the needs of the labour market. These days, the risk and disaster on the part of the opposition was expressed with many hours of speech in this Chamber. But behind that, there are facts. There's the truth. The 2012, 2013 and 2014 budgets ended out of objectives. On the other hand, the 2015 budget, which was not that government but executed it, was overstated. The 2016 budget was also exceeded. Bearing in mind that this budget reflects the government’s determination to redistribute resources from the few to the many, from the richest to the poorest, I am voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr. Chaaklis. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday at noon Mr Tsakalotos gave some clarifications and those who were present I think they should have made their assessments. One of the people they asked was me. We had recently heard Mr. Shoeble speak of ten years of surpluses since 2019. We have heard various other opinions, such as for example for five years, with great comfort. We asked what is going to happen. I have no reason to doubt the honesty of this Minister that the negotiation is not yet over and is in the middle. Nothing has been agreed. We all know in this Chamber that over 2%, 2.5%, i.e. 3.5%, cannot be tolerated. We may be disliked by the International Monetary Fund, but I think its assessment of at least 1.5% should be the surplus after 2018, we should be in agreement. All of us insisted on getting this answer. I think it's not bad to talk about this. With the exception of Shoeble, Sultz and Juncker and Moschovisi and Draghi, who, in fact, we all know that he made a decision yesterday, if we don't make the date for quantitative relaxation, shows a spirit of cooperation. They listen positively to the proposal made by the Greek Delegation, 3.5% to become 2.5% and 2% and this 1% or 1.5% to enter and increase competitiveness. I'm just saying. The same is true of Mr Juliarakis, whom I have listened very respectfully and very carefully. Put things in place. We are 2% of GDP in the European Union and 0.00 - I do not know how much - of world GDP. We're a very small country. What do we have in front of us? We have huge super-enterprises multinational and financial structures which are incredibly strong. The JRC said a few. I'll add a few more. I would like to remind you of a recent Oxfam poll, which also belonged to Joe Cox, the one murdered in Brexit, Great Britain, gives me - I will be tiring to say it, because it is not an injustice, but a perversion - eighty-two magmas to have assets as much as the world's poorest three and a half billion, that is, the poorest population on the planet. Imagine what a beastly almighty we're talking about. The world knows that world GDP, the real economy is around 75 trillion. Come on, de, it's 12 times the poll, the fake GDP. The 900 trillion handles them very few people. And not to hide behind our finger. Siomple and many other politicians, G7, G20, promote the interests of these lobbys. Do we have the possibility of a small country surviving in the mathematics? I liked the conversation that Tsakalot told Symble that "I feel like I'm in two elephants." And Shoeble got a misunderstanding about who's the second elephant. Apparently, it's not Shoeble, but the ones behind Shoeble. That's the truth. I would like to remind you that whether we want it or not, a large part of the economic elite and financial structures serves the constitution of the market. Keep it: the constitution of the market. It is this reality that gives rise to extreme right-wing, phobia, racism, conservativeism. And no one is surprised. Here comes a subject: in America we recently saw elections wanting Clinton. She could have been controlled by the elite. Trump's not the good guy, but for them uncontrollable. Somehow a frost felt like Brexit. A second frost felt the other day. Renchy the poor guy didn't ask for anything, crumbs, a little austerity to improve, nor that. And now Grillo, Berlusconi and Lega of the North, who we all know are putting a matter on their way out of the European Union. One would say that they are going through their dissolution. They want her? No, they don't. And they don't want her, not because they loved us or Renche or I don't know who else later. It pisses them off that in Austria 46% are far-right. It pisses them off if Lepen becomes President of the French Republic because they are uncontrollable. They want to control everything. He didn't love Greece, none of them. It's just the least possible problem right now. And there is the appreciation - and that is where I disagree with the honest people otherwise, and the JRC and others who fight, with respect, I say it - that you live inside, that the juncture is positive for us. If the Eurozone breaks down right now, they will lose. They don't have the mechanisms anymore. Can we change them? Of course not. But we're having a great fight, I'd say. We're a coconut soup that the juncture is helping us right now. At this juncture we have to capitalise today. I would also like to see that we do not forget to remember the following. Recently, the ten-year bonds, which are graph very reliable, came down to 6.4%. If we cross the 5.9% psychological limit, it'll mean a lot to us. I would also like to remind you that the 'Suddeutsche Zeitung', a conservative German newspaper, claws the praise of the Greek Prime Minister and says clearly: 'It is not just helping his country, but helping the Eurozone.' I would like to remind you that BLOOMBERG, another hard form for us, is knitting biblical ones for this government that has really restored many things in Greece. Today or yesterday, Morgan Stanley confirms 1.8%, if I remember well. What does all this mean? Yes, we can. The juncture helps us pass the second evaluation. Draghi is helping us. It almost prolongs quantitative relaxation and says: 'I expect you'. Finland, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, are small countries which have not caught the tank yet, which means that for us there is a prospect, and I want to believe that we will indeed get out of this tunnel. This government without binucleus manages - I am sorry that I will displease many - a country that is looted. I'm sorry to say that. I heard a speaker who was teaching honorary lessons. It's his right. They are people who were dealing with Christmas and with SIEMENS, people who all of their friends or relatives are on lists, people who were involved in the armaments parties, people who had confused with the banking system, who without a guarantee and left the funds and much more, not to go back to the stock exchange party, which became the biggest redistribution of wealth in a dirty way at the time. I'm saying this because it's very easy to say that it's this government's fault for what we're doing. We made mistakes and it's not bad to admit it. We're inexperienced, we've been ignorant of danger, and we've made choices wrong. But is it an equal offense to be inexperienced or to be caught with the sprout on your back, to rape, to plunder, to steal? I think it's two different, and we have a sacred debt to communicate. We don't have the power yet, we have the government. Five channels are lysing every day. Dangerology, phobia, poison, bile. I said, "We were wrong," but we did not dive the hand in honey. The recent example of the apology they asked for from Katorugalo, who went through to everyone that he was the gentleman of 12%, that he was receiving 12%, is tangible. Those who dared to come out clearly, not whisperingly, received the answer from all the ministers of this government. I'm one of those people I'm saying we don't have a lot of guns in our hands. Those who sent us to the House are not shipowners and industrialists. It is poor, it is citizens who have suffered a great deal in the last forty years. And we have a sacred obligation in this society to be careful. The moral advantage that with such a insistence they are trying to degrade some who I do not believe have the credibility of doing so, we have a sacred obligation to keep it too high. Finally, in relation to the announcement made yesterday by the Prime Minister, I am not triumphant. No one said that the problem of poverty was solved, for God's sake! But it is a message, especially to those who dominate us, that austerity is a stupid one. I have my surplus, and since I'm all right with my obligations, I give it to where I have to give it. It's a symbolic move with too many recipients. And I would like, if anything, less micropsy, less poison, less bile, less hatred. 'Cause I think, sooner or later, when you're squeezing the logic and the truth, you're getting boomerang! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u468	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Papachristopoulos. Mr. Salmas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u469	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another budget proposed by the current government. I would say that the budgetary and economic policy being pursued are the lost sacrifices of the Greek people. No one claims that the governments since 2010 have not taken measures that have been difficult, unresponsively to the detriment of the Greek people, but have taken them in order to benefit the country. According to the government, these measures had a positive sign, a profitability indicator. And the previous New Democracy government, the Samara government, took tough measures, but took the deficit from 6% and zeroed it. It had a budgetary adjustment equivalent to the measures it took. He took a recession at 4% and tied it, brought it to marginal growth. And you, Mr. Juliarakis, took measures of 6 billion for 2015-2016 and went missing because you received a zero deficit and again became a minimal surplus and you have a minimum surplus again. You have not changed the recession, so I do not see why the government should celebrate. Regarding what my previous colleague from the Independent Greeks said that the 10-year bond rate, which is the letter of the economy, went to 6.4% today. After you received it, six percent. Why did Greeks have to be so troubled that today the country would borrow at a higher rate of ten years in theory than when you received the government? And because all the budget and the effort of the government is based, from what I have seen, on the social profile of a left-wing government, I must tell you that this is easily degraded. How is it degraded? What are the two crucial figures that the Prime Minister and the government's social policy have shown yesterday are to support the social sensitivity shown by this government? It is the 630 million announced yesterday by the Prime Minister from the supposed surplus to be shared by the poor pensioners and the 730 million granted from time to time to support extreme poverty, and this year it was 220 million. Listen, Mr. Juliarakis, why are we not: Where are the 850 million entered in the budget to give the EEAS? You retained pensions of 4% and 6% of the main and supplementary pensions and the State's General Accounting Office wrote that this amount is 830 million, to give it to the EEAS for civil health. Right? I mean, you cut Greek citizens' pensions to give them to health. Now listen to EEA revenue: 3.8 billion had income from the insurance funds in 2014 and 3.3 billion in 2015, less. To date, 3.8 billion has revenues again. That is, what EEA revenues were from the insurance funds in 2014 are today. Where are the 830 million that you cut pensions to give to the EPPY? And since you have so much surplus, why do you owe the suppliers today 1.4 billion today? Today EEA has 1.4 billion unpaid, and you dare say you have an excess? Do you owe all over the market and transfer these debts to the next governments, to make a heroic exit, telling the citizens that you are providing them - what? - the ones that you withheld from the pensions to give to health that you didn't give? Or did we not understand that in the bill to be discussed in committee on Monday, you are cutting off another 5% of the EOPYY, of what the insurance funds, the IKA, or another 100 million? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that comes for discussion on Monday, says that IKA must retain 5% of what it is to give the EEAS for its services. What's that? Restraint from the health sector for the pension. And what else does he say? From 1-1-2017 another 2% will keep the IKA from what it was to give the health industry, another 40 million. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] And what if, Mr. Juliarakis, did we not understand that in 2017, you will give EOPY 330 million less, that is, than this year, another 200 million? That's what you're doing! You leave unpaid payments on the market to suppliers, so that you do not cut pensions, which you have repeatedly cut off and will be cut off, so that you come here to make us theories of a social state. What social state? Tell me an expense that you reduced to health by suppliers! Mia! None!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u470	The price of arthroscopy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u471	None! You're just here to say that you have a social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u472	The price of arthroscopy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u473	It is the responsibility of the Ministers - since you want me to answer - of your incompetent health ministers who have no understanding. Let me answer that from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u474	Monday we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u475	The social state is not entitled to invoke it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u476	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u477	But you have thanks for making a mistake. Our mistake is that the distortions of the only economic theory, the free market economy - which is dominating today, and it is the one we believe and you are implementing it, whether you believe it or not - which was our job to correct them, we left them to Communists - rather their communists, because the Communist Party has credibility and consistency in what it says - to former communists, now socialists and, as neoliberals who proclaim and mock the world as being socially sensitive. But in order not to listen to the 'SIEMENS' and all that, SIEMENS was acquitted in SYRIZA. Yesterday, a week ago in the Depuy scandal - a million-dollar scandal - the court acquitted them and canceled the trial, deferred it indefinitely. All this is happening at SYRIZA. And we didn't see any - but no case ending. You came when you were opposition, and I know you mind, I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u478	Not at all. Did we do Depuy? We've referred them to them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u479	I know your difficulty in going to your districts. And I can see that. I haven't seen a SYRIZA MP in my own district in the past year. I get it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It is certain that you will also lose in the elections, not because I speak today, or because colleagues speak, but because the world will punish you because you seem a few. You fooled them when you said "we do not want to be privatized". Because the Norwegians, who are not communists, built a fund, a bank with their insurance funds, to exploit their state property. But you, who are fake communists, do not do this, do deprivation to such an extent, while the Samaras government had refused to give the excess of all the profitable Greek businesses for nine years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u480	Please, take it easy! Mr. Salma, let's slowly finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u481	In conclusion, I should like to say that there was an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, for the country to move forward, because the country's governance is a skateboarding, one government takes from the people the doll to take the country forward. It doesn't matter if he thinks he's taking her to the right or the left. The country has to go forward. Today the country has not gone forward. The ESRB has 5% absorption, the EIB has 0.2% absorption for development, 5% for the Rural Development Programme - Greece is a 20th seventh country in the twenty-eight. No one really prevented the government from running all these programmes. And above all 173 billion deposits you received to the banks - where the state had the largest share and where 20 billion were lost - now it has 40 billion fewer deposits and banks are with capital control. Under these conditions growth for you is a long dream that unfortunately is not going to get caught. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u482	We're continuing with Mrs. Kasimatis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u484	What do you want, Mr. Juliaraki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u485	Many questions have been asked by the representative of the New Democracy, and I have to answer them. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u486	Do you have two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u487	That's enough and that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u488	Mrs. Cassimatis, I'm sorry. If you will allow the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u489	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u490	You're obviously allowing. Mr. Juliarakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u491	I agree with the speaker of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u492	Be quiet! Please! Go on, Mr. Juliaraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u493	I listened very carefully to the speaker of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Cryazides, please let the Minister say what he wants, let's go on. Look, if you want, we can stay by 12 o'clock at night. There are five more speakers to close today's sitting. If you don't help and you can come by 12 o'clock at night. If you wish that... Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u495	I listened carefully to the spokesman of the New Democracy, and I agree with him that the country must go forward. So see where the country would go at the end of 2014, if the January 2015 elections had not taken place. First, at the end of 2014 the 2014 budget is being closed down, with a severe under-utilisation, contrary to the 2015 and 2016 budgets. Secondly, the growth rate of 2014, for which the Acoustic Opposition is proud and repeats at every opportunity, was - listen to 0.05%, when the exit from the recession - any recession, even milder than the one we have known - needs a growth rate of 2% to 3%. Thirdly, at the end of 2014 Greek government borrowing rates were not at 6.2% or 6.3%, but at 8.5%. From spring and summer 2014 until December of the same year, 200 basis points had already been set up, making sure that a third programme was needed, as there was no possibility for the country to enter the markets with these interest rates. Fourthly - and I conclude - in January 2014 the Greek State's cash reserves were EUR 2.6 billion, just what was needed to pay wages and pensions at the end of the month. You don't come out of the market at 8.5% interest rates and without cash, you don't get out of the recession at a rate of 0.3%. Surely I can say that at the end of 2014 the country would enter a third program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u496	Mrs Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the 2017 budget at a time of general uncertainty and instability in Europe and throughout the world, at a time when the foggy European Union, with its insistence on neoliberal policies and its self-review, does not seem to inspire the citizens of European states, while there is an escalation of fascism, at a time of domination of the financial sector and the multinationals against politics. These are all elements which we always have to bear in mind as a context within which we are discussing. So I come to the budget issues. The budget, of course, is not just a question of numbers. It shows the direction of the government of the country. Our first budget has laid the foundations for fiscal stability. The accounting data for the implementation of the budget and 2015, which was not drawn up by us and 2016, showed that there has been a significant excess of the targets, despite the disastrous anti-population forecasts throughout the year. In 2016 it marked a return to growth. For two consecutive quarters the economy has experienced a positive growth rate of Gross Domestic Product, while it is expected to further improve for 2017, 2018 and 2019. The softest budgetary policy implemented by the agreement that we reached on smaller primary surpluses allowed overall an improvement in the evolution of the macroeconomic sizes, while the size of public revenues increased significantly in relation to the target of the 2016 budget. The 2017 budget now consolidates budgetary equilibrium and stability. The aim is to maintain the budgetary balance with at the same time a fair sharing of the burden of budgetary adjustment and of the benefit of economic recovery. The 2017 budget is realistic, developmental and surplus, while at the same time it has social significance. Let us stand on this social budget. Our choices for vulnerable layers began with L.4320/2015, which established a series of direct measures to address the humanitarian crisis, with actions involving feeding subsidies, rent subsidies, free reconnection and electricity supply. For the first time, after six years, interventions to strengthen social protection and stimulate investment exceed the nominal annual increase in tax revenue in the State budget of 2017. Overrun amounts to 371,000,000 euros. The appropriations for Social Solidarity Income amount to EUR 760,000,000, that is to say three times the expenditure that we had spent to date in 2015-2016 for our fellow citizens who were hard hit by the crisis. The guaranteed income will be extended to all municipalities in the country, incorporating the oldest programme of the minimum guaranteed income, launched in 2014 and operated only pilots in thirteen municipalities. We integrate the experience gained from the humanitarian crisis programme and change the model of intervention with a triple model of aid. There will be intervention at income level, at the level of the interconnection of beneficiaries with services, such as free medical care, participation in social poverty structures, participation in the ETVA programme, funding of children at nurseries, school meals, etc., and interconnection of the benefiting unemployed - beneficiaries of the CRL for the labour market. The comparative figures of the budgets managed by the Directorate-General for Welfare, in the social solidarity portfolio, show the following: In 2015 the budget was drawn up by the New Democracy - PASOK Government and the implementation of the budget was EUR 820,000,000, including expenditure on humanitarian crisis measures. In 2016, until October, the implementation of the budget amounted to 990,500,000 euros. In 2019, 1,479,000 euros have been budgeted. At the same time, the Government promotes substantial institutional areas in the anti-dumping system. In the field of education and research, an effort is being made to strengthen the scientific potential of the country. The 2017 budget provides for an increase in the expenditure of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs for education by EUR 257,000, compared to the 2016 budget. The funds will be increased in research. Since 97,000 in 2014, 148,000 were given in 2016, while in 2017 it will increase to 180,000,000. In the public investment programme, which is a lever for growth, the national funds for investment have increased, namely, the total amount for 2017, compared to the 2016 level, by EUR 250 million. Health, education and social protection sectors are supported by 300 million. Furthermore, 100 million have been budgeted to support the government in the instalments of weak borrowers. At the same time, our reforms continue in public administration, so that the positive course of the Greek economy is strengthened by the existence of a modern and effective administrative mechanism. A major effort has been launched since last year to rebuild the public. I am also referring to the recent law that we have passed on mobility, so that the competent and experienced human resources can be made greater use of to the fullest extent in public. Over the past few years, the other governments have put the largest burden of the budgetary adjustment on the expenditure side. This meant reductions in private and public pensions, reductions in wages, cuts in social expenditure and health and education expenditure. There is no room for reductions in social costs anymore. What the current government is seeking is a systematic review of the costs for the entire public sector within 2017, with the aim of identifying and reducing unnecessary and unnecessary costs and waste, which will not cause great damage to the functioning of the State, on the contrary will benefit society as a whole. In the medium term, the aim is to reduce taxes. Of course, the opposition has not explained how it will achieve the reduction of taxes as it has announced in this number, without reducing wages and pensions and without redundancies. It's a question. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] Mr President, may I have your tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u498	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u499	Thank you. We are obliged to achieve the budgetary targets for which we have committed ourselves in order to restore the credibility of the country and get out of the programme. We are trying to balance between many dilemmas, without ignoring the exogenous factors - the international economic environment - which increase uncertainty. The government, while remaining firmly in its commitment to support our weakest fellow citizens, decided to immediately distribute the majority of the revenues in 2016 to the low pensioners and the measures announced in the Prime Minister's letter yesterday, is a clear sign of a genuine will for social justice. And I have to tell you, it's within the acceptable framework. And I say this, because the Greek Parliament, about six months ago, ratified the revised European Social Charter, fully recognising its particular value and importance, in accordance with the principles and values of the Council of Europe, also expressing its firm support for the European Social Charter, one of the most fundamental conditions of the Council of Europe, which represents the pillar of the protection of Europe's social model, particularly in times of unfavourable economic conditions. Unfortunately, the directions of lenders are limited to the following: strict austerity, accompanied by the uprooting of acquired rights with imperative deregulations. As a result, there is a clear contradiction between instruments and objectives, which we have repeatedly pointed out to the people responsible, namely the Greek delegation to the Council of Europe, but also myself, as a representative of the country for the European Social Charter. So it cannot be all the Member States of Europe that are parties to the European Social Charter and, at the same time, that Greece is pressing to violate its contractual obligations towards the Charter, that is to say to its citizens. As the Minister for Labour has said, Greece cannot be exempted. On the contrary, primarily for Greece that has paid the greatest cost for the stability of the Eurozone to have mechanisms to deal with the crisis, the European Union and the institutions in general should review their policy by harmonising it with the provisions of the Convention, contributing effectively and realisticly to the protection of the economic and social rights of citizens. Conditions are supreme institutions, with which administrative mechanisms should comply. Ladies and gentlemen, the government budget for 2017, together with its short-term debt reduction measures, medium-term measures for 2018 and the closure of the second assessment, as well as quantitative relaxation, will create the possibility of exiting the crisis. We will strive for society to come out of the crisis, defending labour, social goods and strengthening and restoring the social state, against the neoliberal consensus to dismantle fully the human-value projections in the economy and the progress of societies, with fair sharing and enjoyment of the wealth produced by the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Papaphippipou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u501	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2017, as well as any draft budget for any year under discussion, is a top parliamentary procedure, since both the budgetary objectives of the government recommended for the next few years and the policy to implement them are reflected in it. The decoding of these objectives and policies will be judged, on the one hand, the course and the nature, political and ideological, of the country's economy, designed by the government which proposes the budget, and on the other hand, if this course corresponds to what the party that has been given the mandate of its government has been promised to the Greek people. For the exact and objective, however, decoding of the individual elements and characteristics of this draft budget, it is absolutely necessary to take into account both the economic, political and social conditions prevailing in the country, the Eurozone and the world in general at the time of taking over governance by our party and the ANEL party, but also those prevailing today, namely at the time of drafting the budget. The circumstances, of course, have been repeated by fellow SYRIZA and ANEL Members and ministers of our Government both in this debate and in the past. I think it is necessary, however, to repeat them briefly, because it is clear that our colleagues in the Opposition, particularly the New Democracy and PASOK, on the one hand, have a weak memory and, on the other hand, need frequent repetitions to inspire them. Besides, the repetition of learning mother! When we took over the rule of the country, New Democracy and PASOK gave us an economic, social and political ruin. GDP was reduced by 25.7%, the debt had risen from 126.7% of GDP in 2009 to 178.6% of GDP in 2014, unemployment was 26%, and over 50% of young people, the decline in incomes exceeded 40%, the ESA and public education were in collapse, the reserves of the insurance funds were vanished, labour rights completely weakened, labour relations dismantled, and finally, there was a huge humanitarian crisis. In addition, the country’s credibility and authority internationally were in Nadir. The pretentious situation described was the task of your governments, colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, and you have done so in accordance with the harsh austerity measures imposed on you by the troika. The predetermined situation would be even more grim and the country would lead to total bankruptcy and dissolution if the pending assessment of the second memorandum agreed by your Government, which provided for additional measures, four times the amount of what our agreement provides for, was concluded, since, among other things, it would commit the country to surpluses of 4.5% for 2016, 4.9% for the period 2016-20 and 4% for the period 2021-2030. Of course, your government, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, aware of the deadlock that led to the second memorandum and the impossibility of its full implementation, escaped the country's governance after speeding up the elections before completing the fifth evaluation of the programme envisaged in your memorandum, but having established the left-hand parentheses scenario. However, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, we have disproved you, since our government has concluded with our partners a much less burdensome agreement and has laid the foundations for sustainable and socially just development, the country's exit from the crisis with adequate protection of the weaker social groups of our population and its exemption from comitology at the end of the four-year period. This fact is evidenced by the fact that not only the last budget, which provided for significant social benefits, was implemented, but there was also a surplus of revenue of EUR 1 billion. It is also evidenced by the stabilisation of the economy - in the third quarter of this year, in particular, there has been a growth of 1.8% - resulting from the reduction of unemployment, the response to the humanitarian crisis, the cessation of the deterioration of the ESS and of public education and many others, particularly mentioned by fellow Members and by the relevant ministers. But I must not fail to say that our government has restored the credibility and authority of our country internationally. This fact is not demonstrated by the advent of the Obama, Putin, Holland, the Pope, as well as by the organisation of the Conference of Heads of State of the European South. The above elements are undeniable, since they are accepted both by the institutions and by international organisations and the international press and celebrate the Cassandra of Anti-Population and the media that are friendly to it. The draft budget provides for a primary surplus of 1.75% and an increase of 2.7%. It is certain that these budgetary objectives will be achieved, because the conditions of our economy allow it. After all, the fact that the Eurogroup has recently taken the short-term debt relief measures makes us optimistic about this. Of course, the draft budget also provides for tax burdens, which unfortunately is the price we have to pay for getting out of the crisis and for getting us out of the comitology. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please for your tolerance, Mr President. Besides, there's time. But the expected development with social justice will allow us to reduce tax burdens. It should be noted that the budget plan under discussion remains the strengthening and immunization of social protection and the stimulation of public investment. In this direction, the budget incorporates a series of critical social interventions, such as the full extension of social solidarity income with appropriations amounting to EUR 700 million, the strengthening of the health and care sectors, education and social protection with the EUR 300 million additional provision, the contribution of millions of euros to the arrangements for the unpaid loans of the indebted households with predetermined income and assets criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that the country's current economic situation is not a pomegranate and that all of us are being called upon to bear much weight. That is why we are not celebrating the undeniable successes so far. But our government has committed itself that every euro that is surpluses from available resources will be redistributed to the most affected of our fellow citizens. Its commitment is made by the Prime Minister's yesterday's announcement to redistribute the sum of EUR 617 million from overcompensation in 2016, to be granted to one million six hundred thousand pensioners who receive a pension of up to 850 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, following the imminent completion of the second evaluation, which we call on you to assist in fact, you must understand that the left-hand scenario in which you have invested so much is not a chance at all. That is why I call on you, instead of lying about the so-called incompetence of our government and asking her to resign, to take a serious interest in the problems of the country, by having a constructive opposition. You will allow me, Mr President, to make one final comment. The criticism of the Opposition on short-term measures and of the Prime Minister's statement yesterday about the granting of financial aid to pensioners and the suspension of VAT on the first line islands, on the one hand, it is unfounded, small and miserable and on the other hand, and on the other hand, it brings us to mind the popular proverb: 'Whatever the fox does is not enough'. In view of the above, Mr President, it is clear that I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u502	We're continuing with Mr. Dousina from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard too many numbers, we have heard them from here too. Something I have heard from there reminded me of the well-known saying'lie, great lies and statistics'. We will now add 'and polls'! I won't talk about numbers today. Because last year I returned to Greece after a long period of time abroad, I listened very carefully to the debate that has taken place in the last three days and then came to an anthropological conclusion: we are currently living in the year 1. 2015 was the year zero. This year we're in year one. Because everything that happened before the year zero is a history, it has been lost in the nick of history and cannot be mentioned. We have forgotten - Mr Papaphilipou said so - the fall in GDP by 25%, 30% unemployment, 60% youth unemployment, 40% income reduction. We forgot. And I hear the truth's agreement on the other side! You know - you're also concerned with profanity - that it's true the lack, the loss of oblivion. 'a' is deprivable. In other words, it's really remembering, not forgetting. What Opposition asks us to do is to forget everything, to delete it. In other words, the agreement is not an agreement of truth, but an annoyance, in the sense that it asks us to enter into unforgettableness rather than the memorial that is the very concept of truth. What are they asking us to forget? Let me tell you something I don't know if the ministers know. In July 2016, IMF published a report assessing the Fund’s work in Greece, Portugal and Ireland. It is, of course, trying to justify the many mistakes that he has done - which we have said several times - but in paragraph 70 he says the following. I translate them directly into Greek from English: "The IMF overrated" - this was for the first two memoranda - "the administrative capacity of the Greek Government and underestimated the opposition to structural reforms that would be faced with the acquired interests". I translate the'vested interest' as acquired interests, because the word 'contrast' does not exist in English. That was for the first two memos. He continues: "It was in response to the lack of administrative capacity and government and political will" - cultural will - "which the structural measures have multiplied in each successive assessment." That's what the IMF says in July 2016. It was a lack of political will. It was the fact that the previous governments did not do what they were asking for today, forcing Mrs Ahtsioglou, Mr Juliarakis and Mr Tsakaloto to be in this steadfast negotiation to be able to gain something for the Greek people. But there's something else right about Mr. Mitsotakis. In a speech he made ten days ago in the presentation of a book, he said: “We - the Right means - ideological hegemony. But it is not enough to rely on this superiority. We must learn from the massive rejection of the political, economic, media and academic elites and read the spirit behind the letter of the popular vote, that is, what happened in Brexit, what happened in America and then, of course, what happened in Italy." So the Right says he has ideological hegemony. Who? Neoliberalism. The post-political treaty, where technocrats replace politicians. That it has ideological hegemony, that industrial relations have been abolished and destroyed, that financial capital goes where it wants to create this great structural contradiction between financial capital and labour, creating structural unemployment and inequality, which led to Brexit and Trump. Everyone admits that. So if Mr Mitsotakis and the Right in general, he really wants to know how the Across Right, the populist and nationalist side, what we have termed "the neofascists in Armani costumes and Chanel ties", perhaps he should look at her own policy. Because the post-democratic treaty was rejected by both the people in Brexit and Trump and in Italy, but also in Greece, when they adopted SYRIZA as the party that would express the great uprisings of the Greek people since 2011. So instead of entering a neoliberal light, instead of staying in powerful policies like those of Cameron, like Clinton's and the ones we see everywhere, we have to look at changing this policy mix. And I'd say something last, because in the end I want to relax and laugh a little bit. So the last thing I want to say is this. You have spoken many times about the left-hand side and about the moral advantage. Let me tell you what the moral advantage is. The moral advantage is that all the people you see here, such as Tasia Christodoulopoulos who was before, but we've all entered the Left - for many years, we older - not because we've never expected to be professionals - politicians or ministers and MPs. We went in because we believed it! We have entered for our principles and values. We're not tied to any chairs. We don't have power like the cement that keeps us together. And as we walked in, we're leaving. We're not tied up. That's why we voted. I, as I said with the simple analogue, entered the House because I was in the fifty-five bonus. I don't want to be in this House because we got a 50-seat bonus. That is why we voted in a comfortable manner on the simple analogue. Because for us it is not the power and the chairs, but the values and principles we have served throughout our lives and we are still serving today, despite the difficulties. But I thought we could relax a little bit. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I'll finish with a parable, with a nice story. This is in relation to what we heard last night and this morning after the announcement by the Government, by the Prime Minister of this great aid given before Christmas to the low pensioners and, of course, to our islands. We have heard that these measures are dilemmas, that they will lead to a new huge economic and political crisis and that it is a unilateral energy. I imagine you've all heard Charles Dickens' famous Christmas fairy tale, "Christmas Carol." I won't tell who Mr. Scrooge is today, but I'll tell you what Scrooge did to the Christmas fairy tale. On Christmas Evanzier Scrooge refused to go to Christmas because he thought it was a waste of time. He required his employee to work on Christmas because, he says, he can't spend a day on which he won't work and get paid. And when the ghost of future Christmas - you know, he was taken by the three ghosts to show him the old Christmas, Christmas, and the future Christmas - he took him to the Stock Exchange, that's where Mr. Scrooge got a landslide and a turbulence. Between brokers and dealers there was a turbulence. "Who died?" Someone asked from the crowd. "Last night, I think," someone else answered. "I don't think anyone's been pressed at his funeral," said a third, "Finally, he got out! They all hated him." And when he begged the ghost of the future Christmas to show him who had died, he saw the tombstone "Ebenzier Scrooge".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Dousina, please complete the proverb.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u505	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a paradox. I am not going to say now who Scrooge is, whoever can say, from Shoeble to these journalists and politicians, who told us last night and this morning that we must forget that the poor need, the poorest parts of our population, and that we are today, or that these young Scrooges become, the people for whom Christmas is nothing, that is to say, that the help that the government can give in this difficult financial framework is not possible. I'm leaving them, I think, in the people's judgment. The fact that you can help right now - even a little - the world that has suffered the most, is for me a decoration, is the honor, is the dignity of the Left. And she doesn't give it to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u506	Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing in another budget based on overtaxation and reductions in the House. You are kneeling with your taxes a already horrific and frustrated people who are looking for - a percentage of it - to find a dish of food in the Holy Metropolitans, municipalities and social structures. You are talking about success in the negotiations with the partners, while society is impoverished, and one business after another puts a lock on it, when unemployment, particularly among young people, is increasing, and the market is squeezing under the tax measures that you are applying. You condemned a people to poverty and submissiveness and you play communal games on their backs, offering crumbs as a pretext. You celebrate the results of Eurogroup and short-term debt relief measures of 20% of GDP by 2060. The previous government of the three parties through the well-known PSI immediately erased a significant debt, 140,000,000,000 euros. So is it possible that your reduction of up to EUR 45,000,000 by 2060 will be taken as a national success? To pass on to the individual parts of the budget: In your economic planning, has Evros fit anywhere? What part of the budget you have submitted are you referring to development, entrepreneurship in Thrace in general? How much is it bothering you that every day dozens of businesses change VDUs and go to Bulgaria and other neighbouring countries? Isn't there any provision for all of this, nor for red loans to Evros and Thrace and their national extensions, nor for farm farming, which you have left her in her luck? You owe years of compensation, you show indifference about herds lost due to zoonoses coming from the neighbouring country. You do not deal with the problems of fishermen who need it. Proof of this indifference is that you have not incorporated the northern prefecture of the country in the first climate zone for the heating allowance, which, as we know from the north, is the problems on the subject we are discussing. Problems on the Egnatia Street remain. It is a motorway unfortunately without action, without results, without use. All motorways have steadfast traffic and traffic loads, due to the malfunction of entry and exit points in the Gardens, this problem arises. Samothraki is forgotten by your Ministries, facing a body of unsolved problems. On the initiative of Euripidis Stylianidis, we have proposed to you the establishment of a Parliamentary Intergroup on a single policy for Thrace, but you have not been interested in it either. The economy has been heavily burdened by the policy of the open borders you are implementing. You turned the country into an endless hot spot. You have destroyed the economy of the remote islands and deliberately identified immigrants with the refugees. You all call them refugees. It's not right. It's disparate things. We can't put different things in the same basket. Know that discounts in our border guards are not forgiven for such times. Traditional to your idealism you have left the country undisturbed at all levels, because it is not only the fact that our land borders have become unguarded paths of entry of refugees and immigrants, it is also the lack of security that citizens feel even in the center of the capital. You have deceived the Security Body, the policemen who daily exaggerate themselves to do their duty and provide their services to the citizen. Organize the police with the right structures and strengthen it with the same staff. You're talking about budget development, but it can't come when after each demonstration the center looks like a bombed landscape, destroyed shops and businesses. No one invests with this data, not even the Greeks abroad who proved to hurt the homeland that was born. But you turned your back on them. You didn't even give them the self-evident, the right to vote, but you want to put their money in the Greek economy. Aren't you concerned that over five hundred thousand new Greeks have emigrated around the world? Children with diplomas and doctorates, who have been educated with the Greek people's money, offer their services to foreign countries, setting up profitable businesses there, instead of being the driving force for the relaunch of the Greek economy. You preferred to create without object and material the Ministry of Migration Policy and not the Ministry of Ecumenical Culture, in order to deal actively with these children and also with the problems of the family. In all areas you have stubbornly failed. Your only interest was in making party recruitments and making them comfortable. You have created Deputy Secretary-General, Deputy directors of consultants, instead of saving money for areas of top national interest, such as the Armed Forces. You are hired by individual contracts, with blocks, cooks, bankers, cleaners, waitresses, decommissioning the service companies. In times of recession, where the risk of a social diversion occurs, and not only, you must strengthen the pillars of the state and the nation. Any scissors in the Armed Forces budget, whether concerning wages and operating expenses or equipment, will lead to operational degradation. The Ministry of National Defence must ensure the necessary spare parts, fuels and service for our motor vehicles, our warships and aircraft, at least as much as possible - not to say 100%, if possible - so as to make everything available to us easily and usable. I appreciate that you're making sure that the ammunition is done. You are talking about reordering the Armed Forces with a recommendation of smaller and flexible structures. These flexible structures with the SYRIZA - ANEL seal cause fear, if we remember the reorder that you made in police stations and the mood you have shown to close border guards in various central areas of our country, unfortunately neither apart nor my special homeland, Evros. At the same time, it does not specify how much the new entity created, called the Armed Forces Property Development Agency, will cost, while we remain in the dark for the so-called equivalents, although in your budget it will include the freezing of wage maturities, the economic promotions of armed forces and security forces, contrary to the promises made by the Minister of National Defence, that it will not apply the measure and will testify equivalently. They're still looking for them, though. To conclude, I believe that this budget is not going to bring any growth and will sink our country further, and that is why I am voting against it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u508	Mrs Drittelli has the floor from SYRIZA. She is the last speaker and last speaker for tonight is Mr Paradiseopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has also come to this debate, unfolding once again this incredible, imaginable account of the success story. Obviously, it's out of imagination, as arguments were not political in any case. We have not heard them, since January at least 2015, but neither have we heard proposals. And suddenly the calendar these days showed again the last quarter of 2014. How good it was, that is, and we were all living in a paradise, until the evil SYRIZA - ANEL government destroyed everything. Of course, it takes - and this is true - enough nerve - to shake the finger with a face of a thousand cardinals, more often than most of the most frequently responsible of this situation, which our country has been experiencing in recent years, to us who in recent months have tried with nails and teeth to keep society up, but also to defend everything we can in this unfavourable international situation, I would say, situation. Of course, it is not possible to believe that you are persuading society. Obviously not. What I believe you are trying to do, is, above all, to justify consciousness, I would say, your choices most often, not to blame you, for exercising a very tough neoliberal policy, such as the one you have been exercising since 2012 at least, thus walking in the footsteps of the European Union's extreme conservative circles. And this period, as much as you're trying to hide it, it's definitely written - and you know it very well - with the darkest colors of modern history, as much as you're trying to baptize, of course, the meat fish. Of course, especially since yesterday, I can understand any awkwardness of the members of the Officerial Representation - and not just - and in general of the Opposition, because this debate is obviously taking place at a critical juncture in the middle of a negotiation and without the evaluation being closed, but in a specific context. This framework, I would say, has a background of two no negligible conquests of this government. On the one hand, the Eurogroup's decision on short-term debt measures and, on the other, the request of the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, last night. These are in my mind to you like solid stones, where they crush any narratives you've had lately or rather from the beginning. A pot of cigar we heard from Mr. Purple before. You have captured all the narratives and criticisms you have made since January 2015. So you reminded us exactly what these are. So I think these two major successes that the government has had this week work for you in this way. You can no longer tell anyone that we are an incompetent government, a government destructive, that we are fraudulent and liars. And here micropsy begins to abound in this Chamber as a distraction to say to me, to what exactly, ladies and gentlemen? In an obligation - and I repeat: an obligation - the government, if not generally the political world, to do what? To heal the wounds that austerity policies have left in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is an important step in our attempt to curb austerity and return to the growth of the Greek economy. Despite the dangers and disasters, which we are accustomed to, the Greek economy seems to be moving forward and returning to a period of growth stability. I want to talk about two specific things so that I do not go too far. First of all, I want to start with some youth unemployment rates, which, of course, reached record levels in 2012-2014 and in 2017 will be the first year to which it will be clearly reduced below 50%. In particular, youth unemployment in Greece is estimated to be 48%, of course, which is huge in relation to the pre-crisis levels, but it is also the best performance - and we have to recognise this - since 2012. Already, for 2016, youth unemployment has deviated significantly, moving marginally to 50%, while for the following year it appears that even more children are expected to find jobs. Critical topics, of course, which are worth mentioning, are also the strongening of the social budget, the universal application of the social solidarity benefit, the increase in the national part of the public investment programme and the strengthening of the overdue households to cover outstanding debts. In particular, as regards the 2017 budget, for the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the total amount of expenditure appears to be increased in relation to the estimates of the last year's budget. Finally, Mr President, sport begins to take the place it deserves in Greek society. In the last two years it seems that sport has stopped - and that is how it has to be - being the poor relative of all other ministries. We are dealing with the problems - that is what we are doing - and we are not hiding them under the carpet. We are very much in support of mass sport. We conflict with the interests of Greek football. And we proved that. We are starting to solve problems that have existed for years from licenses, for example, in various sports centres until we are strengthening and teaching the children of primary swimming. This year, for the first time, no swimming pools are closed due to a lack of oil. We continue our very great effort to ensure that sport does not feed violence, does not feed corruption. Finally - and I am ending this - I would like to say this: this government will continue to fight for the most advanced settlement of the Greek debt without new measures. No requirement - and all my colleagues have said so - beyond what we have agreed is not going to be accepted. The results are already visible in terms of reducing unemployment and increasing social protection. Next steps must be, of course, to consolidate a return to growth, to create more jobs, but also to invest in the real economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Mr Paradoxopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker for tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the last speaker, I could say, as Mr Papaphippip said, that I have plenty of time or say that I will not get far, because I see you tired. I think that what is given is that I cannot talk about details or specific issues anymore. I must be in a climate of conciseness of today's speeches, and I must certainly speak with some generality. Certainly this budget is an emergency and political, left policy, in my view, and an emergency, because we have found ourselves here. I have heard Mr Juliarakis referring to the composition, balance and dilemmas. In fact, these words used them many times. For the moment I thought: do we have a central budget rather than a left budget? Because all this shows that we weigh something. That is not the case, because it is the question of what we are compiling, what we put to the balance and what choice we make. In this balance, the rule of law and the welfare state, not only development, not only the creation of investors, which can be done through a specific fiscal policy, but also the support of these two pillars of democracy. And in order to support the rule of law just to remind me that this budget is increasing the funding of penitentiary shops, the penitentiary system, which does not only bring benefits to people who are in a very difficult position and in very difficult conditions in prison, but also contributes to security, as conditions within prisons become human beings, we have less secondary crime. I think that anyone who lives in this world can only appreciate and in no way underestimate yesterday's benefits to islanders, but particularly to the low-pensioners. One must have lost contact with the world to underestimate the importance of these benefits, of course, which are not the only ones. Of course, this is the balance, and it seems that the balance, which has now been shown in the budget, has a left-handed figure. It's not just growth. If it were only growth, we were not interested in whether it was fair, whether it would facilitate the restoration of equality or whether it would bring equality, then it could also be the budget of a state that is not democratic. What I would also like to say about the budgetary aspect is this: I have heard previous speakers complain or, at any rate, condemn the policy of this government in terms of taxation, because it has not been able to fight tax evasion, as speakers have said. I want to remind you of something. This government, in 2015, brought in a regulation with Law No.4356, according to which illegally acquired evidence can be used when certain constitutional conditions are met. What could this arrangement work, this rule? It could achieve an effective fight against corruption, including tax evasion, which, of course, does not usually occur with evidence that is easily and everywhere, but is found when certain elements are discovered which are diligently hidden. What was said against this regulation by the opposition? That it allows the use of illegally acquired evidence, although the Constitution excludes this. It is simple to remind you that, of course, our Constitution contains provisions which, on the other hand, guarantee the individual rights of the citizen, his personal data from an illegal removal of his or her own document or anything else that may be called the theft of a document, but on the other hand, give the citizen and the right to legal protection. How can you have the right to judicial protection and have protection and go to court if your only means of proof can't be used? The Constitution must weigh two conflicting needs. On the one hand, the individual right to protection of staff, and on the other, the right to judicial protection for the citizen who wants to find his right. This weighting was based on the criteria, with the principles offered by the Constitution for those who have to make weightings: proportionality, dignity, the means of proof not to have been extracted in terms of dignity, and of course uniqueness, this means of proof being the only one that existed. I think it is clear in all respects that this government, and with this budget, is trying and curing the problematic situations of the economy, which have accumulated in our country so far, but also to safeguard their individual and social rights for citizens. That is why I am voting for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-09-S1-commons.u513	With the consent of the House at 22.47' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Saturday, December 10, 2016 at 14.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017".
