ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda of the House I shall refer a few times to the Philhellenic Day. On a proposal from the Greek Parliament, in 2008, the 19th of April was established as the Day of Philhellenic and International Solidarity. By decision of the Conference of Presidents, in today's debate and at the beginning there will be a few moments' mention on the part of the President in order to honour all of us on this day and on the basis of the developments surrounding the refugee and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to honour the ideological, political and material support of the Greeks during the Independence Struggle, the House plans to publish a small book entitled "The Greek Revolution in European Art through the philosophical works of art of the Hellenic Parliament's Collection". This is a presentation that was made this year during the celebration on the anniversary of 25 March 1821 and was organized in this Chamber by the Association of Officials. This speech by the curator of the Collection of Artworks of the Parliament highlights the works that are hosted in the Parliament with a philosophical theme and contains full documentation. It will be chosen by the Director of the Library, Mrs. Droulia, which will refer to the history of the Collection's creation and the academic Panagiotis Tetsis, the first Chairman of the Parliament's Arts Committee, who will address the subject of phillinism on a broader historical basis with reference to other documents. This publication will be translated and printed in at least two languages, English and French. On April 19, 1824, Lord Byron died in the heroic city of Messology at the age of thirty - six. This anniversary has been established by the Greek state as the Day of Philhellenic and Solidarity. And rightly so, as Vyron, although the top representative of romance in poetry, has been direct and effective in politics, leading in the case of Greek independence. His contribution to Greece through his active action in the struggle with his diplomatic efforts and the proliferation of Greek positions through his writing work showed him to a model philhellenic. Vyron and his contemporary philhellenes recognized to the Greek people the fair demands of the struggling people for freedom, justice, dignity against the establishment of the time and were triggered by feelings of genuine solidarity. That is why, also rightly enough, the concept of Philhellenicism has been associated with that of people's solidarity. The invocation of ancient Greek culture in reference to and in connection with both the younger Greek and the wider European ones also led to the same result, as its deep anthropocentric character energized from other persuasiveness of the West. Moreover, George Tercetis said in 1821: "It would not be complete with the definition of the philosopher..." - he said in the Greek Parliament on March 28, 1854 - "If we neglected to include in this definition another kind of philhellene, I mean the political men, rhetoric, or writers, or priests, or professors, and others, especially honestly and unobtrusively journalist, praised the philosophical dare, implyed public opinion in Europe and America." In other words, they considered Philhellenicism as a movement of practical international solidarity. But philhellenicism cannot be a closed historical phenomenon. Today, with Greece pushing for help to thousands of our fellow people driven from their outbreaks because of the war, we believe and seek the activation of modern philhellenemism. The ordinary Greek citizens and the Greek state as a whole, who, despite the economic problems of our country, embrace the refugees, are the best return to the Greek feelings and an practical version of humanity and solidarity. Philhellenicism, however, is neither archaeological nor a phenomenon that is politically and ideologically neutral, since Vyrus and most Greeks fought for the freedom of the Greeks, for it was precisely for freedom throughout the world. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Parliament of the Greeks today we honour their struggles and their contribution. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of the parties, on the security of citizens. According to Rule 143(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and of the Chief of Staff, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on whose initiative the debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the hour for everyone. The length of speech by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Michaloniakos, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Gennimatas, the KKE Mr.Koutsoubas, the Potamis Mr. Theodorakis, the Independent Greeks Mr. Kammenos and the Union of Central Banks Mr. Leventis are twenty minutes of the hour for everyone. Up to two Ministers shall take part in the debate. The speaking time of the ministers is up to ten minutes of the hour. The speaking time of the Minister intervening at the stage of the main speeches or at the end of the speeches or the seconds of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall be limited to half of the time allowed. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of Parliament and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. From the ministers, as we have been informed, Mr. Kourublis and Mr. Toskas will be given the floor. With the economy of the debate and begging for the greatest possible consistency in terms of time, we have calculated that we can be done at 16.00 p.m. I would ask all of us to contribute to a substantial debate. Please, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position by putting a key question to the House, why the Civic Opposition and its Chief are calling for the pre-dated debate to take place in this House on security. It is the first debate that the New Democracy Party, as an Opposition for more than a year now, asks for the House to be held and, of course, the first one requested by the new leader of the party. He did not ask for a debate in the House on the economy, he did not ask for a debate in the House on the refugee, unemployment, insurance, the country's development prospects, but ask to discuss security today. I don't underestimate the subject, but I wonder. Europe is currently suffering from three crises: economic, refugee and security crisis. Our country has the misfortune to be at the centre of two of the three crises: economic and refugees. At the same time, however, it also has the happy occasion, despite the fact that it is surrounded by countries on the map that face a serious security crisis, not only does it not form part of the security crisis in Europe, but, given the conditions in the wider region, it also constitutes an oasis of security and stability in a wider destabilised area. However, today the New Democracy chooses to discuss security in the House. And my question is: what exactly is it looking at with this proposal? You are going to ask me a rhetorical question, because the motives are clear. After all, just by reading the letter from the Chief of Officerial Responsibility to the President of Parliament with the request for today's debate, one can draw conclusions. There is no surprise in this letter that you are adopting the claim that the security of citizens is questioned both by the terrorist attacks in Brussels and by the refugee. This claim directly linking the refugee crisis to terrorism is to us a well-known account. It's a well-known argument. I am sorry to say this, but it is the narrative and argument of the most reactive, disgraceful extreme right parties in Europe. It is the position of those who close borders and raise walls and try to frame collective nations and peoples on the basis of their religion and origin. And they are doing so at a time when, from nowhere, the linkage of the refugee flows with terrorism is not, in any way, documented. And today, unfortunately, not only does the New Democracy seem to adopt this narrative, but I would say that with great irresponsibility it attempts to transfer this narrative to the back of the country, and even in a critical period, just before the beginning of the tourist season, where everyone expects a new expulsion and a new record of tourism for our country, at a time when millions of tourists are preparing to visit the country. Knowing that the country has an economic crisis and needs solidarity and is facing the refugee crisis, they are preparing to visit the country. And you're asking the top level of the House to save and well prove that there is a security issue, at the same time that no one in Europe has ever thought of saying, not even implying that there is a security issue in Greece. At the same time as the security services of the larger countries of Europe are sending thanks to their counterparts for helping and helping them deal with the phenomenon of terrorism and dismantling its cells in Europe. So what is your purpose and you suddenly open up a security issue and even linked to the refugee? I think it's more obvious: Your purpose is to fish in the blurred waters of a far-right audience, which you co-debate with the Golden Dawn party. Your aim is to highlight the far right agenda and invest in the fear and conservative reflexes of a section of society. Possibly, your goal is to rally the extreme right wing of your party at the time centrifugal tendencies are created and new political formations are created. But you know what? We've seen this work before, and we've seen it before by your side. You have not, however, understood the damage you cause when attempting to shift the political agenda to the right-hand end of the political spectrum, damage to both the country and to your side. You insist very briefly that on this agenda you have the lead over other political forces. But against whom, in fact, are you trying to make a head start? Because whenever you lifted the banner of the right-wing rhetoric to rhetoric, to rally the far-right audiences in your battle against the Left, all you've done was to elect Golden Dawn and not your own party. And to be perfectly honest, I think it is a pity, even for your own party. and for you personally, who speak in the name of liberalism, but also for the fact that since its founding had nothing to do with these practices that my predecessor, Mr. Samaras, has attempted, divising and destroying the Greek people. But from what I understand, that's a little of your business. After all, you cover Mr. Samara's works and days. After all, they are your works and days. Now adopt the xenophobic line. The point is, this line doesn't go far. It may seem useful for internal consumption, but it becomes dangerous at the end, because it creates more problems than one can imagine. Fortunately, however, in the face of the Cassandras of destruction and the delusions of fear, the Greek society demonstrates that it has strong antibodies. They are the antibodies of solidarity and humanity that characterise the Greek people's attitude to refugees and, in general, to the refugee crisis. And of course, at the side of these efforts and the attitude of the Greek people, a government today has the burden of a huge responsibility - a huge responsibility which is disproportionate to the forces of a country that faces the crisis of an entire continent and of an entire region - and I dare say that we are lifting the burden of responsibility with patience and wisdom, because we know that the situation in Europe, but also in our region, is neither simple nor easy. As I said before, Europe is at a critical crossroads, faced with three different crises within it. And our country has been called upon to manage two of them within it - economic and refugee - and our struggle, our efforts, our aim is to finally turn the country from part of the crisis into part of the solution, from part of the problem to part of the solution. The economic crisis has hit the country and the Greek people severely - there is no doubt - because of the fatal choices of the old political system both before the crisis and during its management. Today, however, generally, the country finds itself in a step before the threshold of exit from the crisis. And that's not a shape of speech. This is confirmed by the economic data which cannot be called into question. Because everyone can make assessments or make criticisms, but economic data cannot make criticism. And when reality doesn't confirm us, the worse for reality. So you made a year now, a nice myth, that you had a success story, while the negotiation ruined the economy. But tomorrow, Mr Mitsotakis, the official figures of EUROSTAT for the Greek economy are announced. If, then, - I say 'if' - these official figures prove that you left us empty funds, but we, despite the difficulties of negotiating, managed to keep the economy in high efficiency, multiple performance, more than three times the targets, what are you going to do? Will you apologise for your hypocritical attitude so long, or will you insist on asking for an exam from the top, because we have destroyed the economy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u3	Quiet, please! It's morning too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u4	Will you continue the myth of destruction, or will you finally admit that the evidence and results are different? The same myth, however, of destruction, attempts to tell about the refugee crisis, the very same myth. There is no doubt that the country has borne much greater burden than its powers. We have, however, managed to cope with it. A few months ago we had flows of three and four thousand refugees and migrants daily on the Greek islands and, indeed, we had some countries on our northern border to close the border unilaterally. You realize how critical we have been. We have persistently and patiently challenged a European solution and, indeed, against the severe criticism, that we are calling for a solution with Turkey, which is well known. But we dared to claim this solution. Today the flows on the Greek islands are about fifty and sixty days a day. And, of course, those who said that with mathematical accuracy at the end of April, when we are celebrating Orthodox Easter, the country will be an vast camp. This is because we have dared and played a leading role in finding a solution within the framework of an agreement between the European Union and Turkey, a solution with respect for international treaties and human rights. Developments, therefore, do not confirm - fortunately for the country and unfortunately for you - or your second myth, that the country has become a vast hot spot, that it is a failed state. Because, despite the difficulties we face, the situation is under control. But it seems that the two myths are not enough. New Democracy wants a third. The third myth you are trying to tell today is that the country has a security issue. And you know, okay for the other two. It is expected, in the context of the well-known controversy in this House and outside of it, that the country's well-known confrontation will be heard, but this is dangerous, you know. It is a dangerous attitude and I would say - I do not dare to say it often, but I dare say it now - a attitude of national irresponsible. The country, ladies and gentlemen, is not facing a security issue, despite the fact that it is in a destabilised area and despite the fact that it is facing very important countries at the heart of Europe. But the country is not facing a security issue. And the country has not accidentally reached the point of being a field of stability and security in a wider destabilised area. To do this, it has been implemented - and it continues to be implemented - a specific strategy, an active, multidimensional and peaceful foreign policy, both in relation to neighbouring countries and in general. Greece, belonging to the core of Europe, is trying - and despite the difficulties I have just mentioned - to open up with steady steps in the world. We boldly made progress in strengthening the tripartite cooperation between Greece, Cyprus and Israel. We implemented a very important design and started the tripartite cooperation between Greece, Cyprus and Egypt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u5	Please be quiet. Mr. Kikilia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u6	We relaunched our relations with Russia, relationships that had been frozen over the past period. And despite persistent criticism and difficulties in relations with the neighbouring country, we are in a dialogue process - we are constantly trying to dialogue - and active diplomacy with neighbouring Turkey. Because the escalation of tension is not a guide to dealing with the critical national problems yet, of course, also the neighbour's sometimes provocative demands. We are, however, persistently opting for the policy of diplomacy and dialogue. We started and strengthened bilateral relations with Iran and restored Greece's relations with the countries of the world. At the same time, we are building a strategic cooperation relationship between Greece, Cyprus and Israel, here in the Greek Parliament, the State of Palestine was recognised. We are therefore following a stand of principles, values and at the same time a peaceful, active diplomacy and foreign policy that takes the country out of the crab. All these actions strengthen our country's position in one of the most critical areas of the world where the challenges are extremely great. Greece is now becoming the leader of an effort that at its heart has the values of peaceful coexistence, security and prosperity of the peoples of our region. In view of this, it is no coincidence that signs of international recognition are coming, about the country's efforts - and above all, I would say, the efforts of the Greek citizens - to tackle this unprecedented refugee crisis. In recent months we have been receiving an unprecedented wave of solidarity with our country. World-wide intellectuals, artists, people of the spirit and politics state their support for the efforts of our country and our people: from President Obama, to Pope Francis, who has kept us the highest honour with his visit to Lesvos and we owe him our gratitude, because he has raised the country internationally. Our country, Greece, the word "Greece" in the consciousness of the people of the world is the same as that of solidarity and humanity. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I wonder: Is it or is it not a cause of pride for every Greek and every Greek that happened last week? The touching images were broadcast throughout the world. All international media interrupted to show these touching images of the visit of the three religious leaders in Lesvos, Moria. And it is not only global in nature that the leaders of Christianity meet in Greece, but are meeting right at the point where Europe is intersecting today, between what humanism, humanism and - in the broad sense - progressive and liberal thinking towards black darkness, the dominant perception, the most reactionary concept, in the name of Christian Europe. Religious leaders have met here to say that it is not a Christian Europe that raises walls and fences, xenophobic Europe, but our values, our principles are humanism, it is solidarity. It was a top expression of a historical event what happened last week. And I wonder: could this have happened in Lesvos and our country become a synonym of solidarity and humanity if we had followed another policy all this time in refugee? If we had followed the policy that, in any case, is it in your announcements, the cruel and raw repression? So whether or not recognition of its leading role in dealing with the refugee issue always respects international legality and human rights is an honour for the country? Looks like some people don't answer the obvious. You know, I tried before wondering what would be the country's image if the refugee crisis was dealt with in the way Mr Samaras' government dealt with these matters. If there were no political change in the country. The picture would be, at the very first moment, for refugees who would like to go to Europe, the closed detention centres for all. And because the number would be huge, you would have filled the whole country with closed detention centers. It would be the policy of returning to the sea, with results like those of the tragedy in Pharmacy, on the part of Mr Teddy. In fact, then, do you remember when people in Europe were asking us persistently 'why are you not protecting your borders'? and we told them 'to do what?'. In other words, boats with defenseless people - fifty and sixty - who claim a better life. What would be the country's image, if the government's policy, in this unprecedented refugee crisis, were the pogroms and broom businesses in the cities? Or not to forget the past and we think that we only now have a problem, the image of the stacked souls in Patras and Igoumenitsa, when no one was interested in these people. Some, however, seem to forget them and strangle the known candy of destruction, of the broken country, of the destroyed country. In fact, now that Greece is an international model of humanity and solidarity, it is a broken country for you. When in your days we lost count of complaints from international organizations, including the United Nations. But then, of course, we lived moments of success. I would like to remind this House and what you have not said in all recent months about the refugee problem: that there is a new Grexit coming out of Schengen and that Greece is becoming Europe's poor relative on the refugee issue and, in fact, when we have played the most leading role in finding a European solution between the European Union and Turkey, that we have lost control of the situation with the refugee flows, while the agreement has brought about drastic results and we have completely control over the situation and the flow of entry into the Greek territory, that the European Union will bypass us, because we are an unreliable state, and will only give the funds to the NGOs and without consultation with Greece. On the contrary, we have already received 181 million directly and yesterday in an interview given by Commissioner Stylianidis, the 83 million approved to be made available to NGOs, will be made available on the basis of the needs identified by the Greek state, namely the need to recruit local communities, to move the economy to local communities with a problem, on the basis of our own needs. Why, then, all this poor criticism? I could say you guys are short-sighted or petty. However, it is not there, nor is it that I can convince you to support, at least, this internationally recognised effort of the country. What I am going to try to convince you today is at least show a high sense of responsibility towards the effort you are trying to link refugee and security. Before I turn to this, I would like to mention - because I think I have an obligation - to the people who have contributed to tackling this refugee crisis and who have managed to maintain the image of a safe country fully. I would like to take this step in thanking the men and women of the Port Authority, the Greek Coast Guard, who, under adverse conditions, have been able to self-sacrifice to save hundreds of thousands of refugee lives that have sailed in Greek waters and, at the same time, have achieved a strong blow to the circuits of slaves, whom they now arrest and lead before justice. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would also like to thank the men and women of the Greek Police forces who, on a 24-hour basis, are in places where refugees live, with a discreet presence and a high degree of preparedness, because it is our responsibility to protect both the inhabitants of these regions from possible violations and the families of refugees living in these structures. I think we are doing this in the best possible way and with a high sense of responsibility thanks to the contribution of the people - men and women - of the Greek Police. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the people of the Ministry of Defence, the Greek Army, who have contributed with superhuman efforts to achieve - a small miracle within a minimum of time - to respond today to more than forty thousand positions for refugees and immigrants and to give more than ninety thousand meals every day. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, the country that has given the global prestige of democracy and culture, can only be an example of democracy and freedom. A favoured democratic state governs the rules and principles, principles and rules resulting from the assumption of any democratic society, the assumption that every citizen has the right to decide without imposing or interfering with public or other authorities. With this assumption in mind, we have to have any debate about security and policing. Why is the search for better decisions and practices on the safety of citizens now based on the following question: How can we best ensure that public order is maintained in the context of democracy, but at the same time prevent any attempt at organs of order from becoming oppressive and enforced? As in any democratic society, the action of the institutions of order must be monitored. That is why there is a set of legal, cultural and political rules. These are the rules that protect democracy itself from spreading it into a state of police, where the institutions of order are completely autonomous. Democratic governance requires two basic things from the police: firstly, the effective fight against common crime, namely the consolidation of the sense of security for citizens. Secondly, ensuring public order while avoiding police arbitrariness, i.e. while safeguarding rights. Allow me, then, to say that some of our basic differences with the previous situation we have received on the action of the police have to do with the fact that there is a fundamental difference of philosophy. And it is a fundamental difference of philosophy for years now between what we call a progressive conception of the role of the state and the functioning of democracy and a conservative concept. However, before I close, I should like to make a brief reference to the situation that we have received. For apart from the differences of viewpoints and the battle of ideas - which is beneficial to a parliamentary democracy - I think the previous situation and what we have received do not honor the previous government. The Minister, Mr. Toskas, will report later, but when we received the Civilian Ministry, we found that half the police vehicles were still on hold. We have found a scattered and chaotic structure, absolutely dysfunctional and inefficient. We discovered cases of exotic rousphotological and customer relations, while, finally, we took evidence in our hands showing that the process of feeding detention centres was either legal waste or completely non-existent. And the leadership of the Ministry and the Greek Police are working hard to deal with these conditions that we found from a government that had on its front, at least in its rhetoric, order and security. But let us go to the most important thing now, not to what we have received, but to what we want, what we aim to do. The institutions of order must act in a democratic state in the most mild and always fully studied way. Every policeman should know - in simple words - that there are red lines in what he can do. Furthermore, the Greek police must focus on its action - and this is our doctrine, let me - above all allow prevention and prevention rather than repression. We have received a police, which acted with the reflex of repression, with bodies which had no real direction beyond the repression, such as the Delta Group. It is clear that these are differences - one would say - visionary, ideological in nature, in relation to the direction and answers given by the right and left to security issues. Long-term differences. But I think that the New Democracy, beyond its ideology, is also committed to a way of thinking and action of the police that cannot respond to the current problems and - you will allow me to say - it reminds me of past times. We have recently been criticised for why the police in Idomen were not ordered to behave like the policemen of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia with regard to refugees, unarmed and defenseless people. And tell me, indeed, in terms of effectiveness that would lead to such behaviour and such an intervention. Fortunately, the combination of realism and humanity is the most efficient and will continue to be our main strategy. But also in the fight against crime, we have set targets and achieved results with the coordinated actions of the services of the Greek Police. The results have been shown. Whether we are talking about smuggling, drug trafficking, global gambling or other cases, the foundations have already been laid, and the next time I think we will see a more comprehensive picture of the implementation of our planning in the area of policing. First and foremost we seek to stabilise the image of the refugee and immigration issue. Secondly, the Greek Police and the Ministry responsible are already working on plans for the more methodological control of cities with a view to more efficient treatment of small and large crime. Thirdly, we seek a distinction between a mild and rigorous approach to dealing with a case by case, in the softest way applied to social protests and the strictest way, in the unequivocal way, to criminal activity. And finally, we will move towards upgrading and modernising the equipment of the Greek Police, which in many cases is obsolete and disadvantaged compared to the infrastructures of organised crime. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that if the Critical Opposition demanding today's debate demands an endless shade, where fear and insecurity will prevail, I will inform her that it is in vain. We are not going to allow our country and our people to be slandered at the time when the people of the world, the eyes of mankind have been on the ground for many times, they have been hiding with excitement and awe to the efforts of Greek citizens to defend values such as solidarity and humanity. And you know, security is a regulated constitutional right and a coordinate state needs to act in a way that ensures it for all citizens. But, as security is a regulated constitutional right, solidarity and humanity are guaranteed virtues and values that are consistent with our culture, our culture, with our ideas, with our values. These are universal virtues and values and we are proud that the global sphere gives them to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Chief of Officerial Response, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which the House is organized, forty-one students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Grade Vyron. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two teachers attendants from the 47th Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes you. The floor is held by the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u8	You wondered, Mr. Tsipras, why is this debate timely? I'll answer you right away. Today's pre-dated security debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not just up-to-date because of recent terrorist attacks in Brussels. It is not just timely because citizens feel increased insecurity because of the way in which the government has handled the refugee - immigration problem. But it is timely, Mr Tsipras, because throughout the world there is a debate on how organised societies perceive the dilemma between freedom and security. The request for today's debate has not been made to jeopardize us. However, it has been done to put us all responsibly, seriously, in the face of the current disappointing situation, but also with regard to the new challenges. This conversation is annoying for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u10	I think it's clear in your body language too. It disturbs you because, unfortunately, this debate has taken place in our country, exclusively, I dare say, under the ideological hegemony of the Left, not in terms of pragmatism, but through the thoughts of certain left-wings. Some, Mr. Tsipras, painted "liberty" the protests of fifty people, who closed whenever they wanted the center of Athens. The undeniable right of citizens to protest has been mutated into an abusive behaviour of disruption of social peace and economic activity. I imagine that you mentioned this when you used the term 'progressive - possibly also liberal - perception'. Some painted "liberty" the anti-semitists' cruiser attacks from the unbaptized Exarchates. Of course, some painted "liberty" the occupations of public universities by party youths. Some in other words, Mr Tsipras, have involved freedom with immunity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They abandoned two main posts in the process of post-military Greek democracy: Function one: the freedom of every citizen stops where the other's freedom begins. The limits of individual freedom are laid down by the law. Function two: Internal security, along with external defence, is a central pillar of the operation of the state. It is not given and it is not disputed and the first obligation of each favoured country is the security of its citizens. Safety, therefore, Mr Tsipras, is a prerequisite for freedom. It is essential for the pursuit of individual ambitions, the ambitions of each citizen, but also for collective progress, for collective prosperity. In other words, security is an essential condition for dignity and progress both for citizens and for the country. Safety is valuable atomic, social and national level. It is a fundamental constitutional right of the citizen and a fundamental obligation of the state. It is the duty of every democratic state, because, Mr Tsipras, the feared citizen is a free citizen. The Republic - and I imagine you will agree on this - does not want frightened citizens. He wants safe, free, creative people. Safety requires constant care and protection, especially at present, a time of economic, social and institutional crisis, a time of dramatic geopolitical change, tensions and conflicts in our wider region and, of course, a time of continuously expanding and growing asymmetric threats, from Islamic terrorism to natural disasters, and from the violence of organised crime to the attacks of sabotage on the Internet. Installation and strengthening of security, prevention and early response of threats require, at least in this Chamber, constant vigilance, but they also require clear positions. The government must, without ideological caging, ensure a peaceful social and national life, but this requires appropriate and planned planning and a decisive global security policy at both institutional and operational level. It is clear, Mr Tsipras, and I do not even have to repeat it - but I will say it, because you have referred to it - that no one wants to turn Greece into a police state. This is totally contrary to the principles of our own party and is an unacceptable refusal of all that we believe in the New Democracy. The state must maximise and not restrict individual freedoms. At the same time, however, it is equally clear that we, as a New Democracy, are not going to accept - and the citizens will not allow it - a country with clear vine, in the name of a so-called freedom and a theoretical protection and the defence of human rights, which ultimately undermines the security and all of the freedoms and rights of all citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since the government - and it seemed clear from your speech today - has been confusing about these issues, it is necessary today to clarify a few things, Mr Tsipras. The Government and SYRIZA, both in your ideological anti-powerful past and in your prestigious memorial present, have and still have - clearly appeared from your speech - a controversial attitude - and I am mild to my characterisation - towards the fundamental importance of security as a precondition for democracy, freedom, uninterrupted economic activity and progress. For some SYRIZA officials, the words ‘public order’, ‘security’, ‘law state’ and ‘police’ are almost forbidden in their political vocabulary. It's words that cause you allergy. As soon as yesterday I saw a communication from the SYRIZA area of rights, which once again calls on the Minister responsible and with the Minister of Government to move forward directly to the real democratisation of the Greek police. You'll explain to us sometime in your dentistry, Mr. Tsipras, what exactly do you mean? Isn't the police democratically working? Aren't they subject to the political leaders? What is, finally, this "caramella" of the democratisation of the Greek police? I submit to the Minutes and the relevant publication. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And if for some of the things I'm saying it sounds like an exaggeration, I invite you to remember just one characteristic example. Doesn't it seem strange to you, Mr. Tsipras, that for the first time the Qualified Opposition has been forced on public order issues to support a Minister of your own who was fighting his own government and SYRIZA? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am of course referring to Mr Panoussis, who has for a long time denounced the conquest of the University of Athens, without, of course, having the slightest governmental support. Today the dean, who supported this occupation, is your minister and Mr. Panousea is private, is at home. Well, the country has paid very dearly, Mr. Tsipras, the loose relationship of a section of the political system with violence. And the truth is that a left section refused and may even refuse to condemn the violence wherever it came from. And I am not just talking about terrorism. Why, of course, terrorism in Greece, Mr Tsipras, has had an ideological mark and most of its victims, unfortunately, have been the same. I am referring to the pre-contrasts of politicians who so much fashioned were the time of the anti-immemorial struggle. I am referring to the vulgarity of the so-called political prosecutors who have rushed to any opportunity to describe anyone who has disagreed with them as traitors and germans. I am referring to the so-called resentment of hangers, many of whom are in this Chamber today as parliamentarians of the government majority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because verbal violence, Mr. Tsipras, is very often a precursor to natural violence. Because when the politician, but also the ordinary citizen, feels free and secure to express his views, democracy is ultimately undermined. For all these reasons, the debate we are having is timely and it is a debate that should have taken place a long time ago, so that people know at last what exactly your Government's perception of security is, and of course, that they are not surprised by your actions, nor by your omissions. With this initiative we are today breaking into a post-political taboo, and we are breaking up an elbow that for decades has imposed on public debate and political logic an ideological, marginalist, excellenceist logic, a logic based on what I hear and unfortunately, it is even today on a dual refusal: the first is to accept that security, public order, the application of laws is a social and self-evident precondition of freedom and the second is the condemnation of all forms of violence, from wherever it comes. These two denies were, in fact, put forward - almost imposed - in the public debate to such an extent that they eventually poured water into the mill of exactly the opposite view, which is ready to adopt extreme practices of intolerance, violence, self-reception at the expense of all democratic, human rights. So we categorically reject both of these logics, because once again the path of measure, the path of democratic legitimacy, the path of respect, compliance with the laws is the right path, and we believe in it, and that is what we will do. But what do you think? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Just quiet down, gentlemen. I understand from the limited turnout of SYRIZA Members that this is not much of a concern to you. I can assure you, however, that it is of great interest to the Greek society. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, what have you done exactly in the last 15 months and with what moral support do you blame - have you done it today - the New Democracy for moral irresponsibility? So let's go see them one by one. A few days ago this unthinkable happened. The security forces of Skopje in an unacceptable manner have taken violent police action against refugees on Greek territory, Mr Tsipras. In essence, that is to say, a third country has acted in order within the Greek territory - that is why we are accusing you, Mr Tsipras - and this unheard of fact has happened, because there has still been a complete absence of the state from part of the Greek territory, from Idomeni, the most sensitive point of the Greek state. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In Piraeus, in the Favelas, non-governmental organisations, other well-known and very serious - and we welcome their work and their contribution to this great effort that we are all doing to tackle the problem - but also many unknown people are replacing the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u12	You also referred to the Greek. Mr. Tsipras, a seventeen-year-old girl lost his life yesterday in Greek. I don't know why. What I know, though, is that the mayors of the region sent you a letter. What do they tell you in this letter? Let's not say we're the only ones, I read this: "The conditions, which have been created, are out of control and pose enormous risks to public health and safety, Mr. Tsipras. Despite our official papers, we have not received any response from you, Prime Minister. We emit the human cry of anguish for public health and safety of both refugees and local populations." I put the relevant letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You may be relied on to answer them sometime, Mr. Tsipras. But let us stop this candy of so-called humanism. Go take a walk to Idomeni and Greek, see where the humanism of the "first time left" has drowned. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is, today, a dangerous void, a void, which is covered by the infamous 'convergences'. We have now come to a paradox: the 'convergences' seem to have greater credibility when talking to the refugees than the Greek state. The Greek state tells refugees, "the borders are closed, they are closed down", "the solidarity" tells refugees "the border will be opened" and we have reached the point where refugees believe the "convergences" and not the Greek state. So this is the embarrassing situation of a government that has lost every trace of credibility. You are, unfortunately, always absent and that in itself, you know, is a paradox. Because a left government in theory wants the state to be present. The State is present, through its intervention, to the independent authorities, to justice and private education. However, when matters of security, public order and border protection arise, the State is absent until extinction. But that seems to be none of your business. You started yesterday another attempt, after a month and a half - and obviously under pressure from today's debate - to liberalise the railway line in Idomeni, which, as far as I know, remains closed. Rehabilitated by the refugees. Can these things happen, Mr. Tsipras, in a favoured country? How do you understand them, exactly? What are the limits of the State's power when it cannot ensure that the country's main rail communication with northern Europe remains open? Of course, have you proceeded with the decongestion of the Port of Piraeus just two days ago and have you abandoned us that we are allegedly discrediting the image of the country in the light of a tourist season? So, the picture that you tolerated in Piraeus didn't discredit the country's image, Mr. Tsipras? Let us be a little serious at last in this Chamber. In what serious European country could the central rail and central port be closed and have this picture? What European country can also close indefinitely roads, Mr Tsipras, for a protest? And in what European country can central squares of the capital be converted into migrant and refugee camps? Only in Greece are these things happening, Mr. Tsipras. Unfortunately, only in Greece is lawlessness and freedom to violate fundamental rights. You referred, once again, to your speech in the so-called New Democracy request for closed-ended centres. You're a little messed up, Mr. Tsipras. We are asking for closed pre-dispatching centres for the irregular, illegal immigrants, which you also agreed on in the debate, which we had in the Presidential Palace! So why are you pretending? Are you forgetting about this now? There were witnesses. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're coming now to close your eye to the fifty-three, to teach us lessons of humanism and humanism? You're absent! You're absent, Mr. Tsipras. The only ones present are a number of uncontrollable people who, when they are not in Kumbuduru, are obviously in refugee camps and do their own propaganda jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the stalls of the state absence are unfortunately evolving in more and more dangerous lawlessness. For the time being, violent behaviors are manifested in the camps. As you are unable to prevent it, however, there is a risk that these behaviours will be extended outside camps. There's a feeling everywhere in the country, only you may not see it, that things are out of control and day after day local societies are increasingly concerned. At the same time, of course, the "abbey" of the Exarchates, as your Minister, Mr. Toskas, described it, remains unbaptised. And spectacular climax and confirmation of what I'm telling you was the armed one - look out! - the armed course of anarchists in the heart of the capital a few weeks ago. These people have not only crossed the Ruvik of infraction, they have exceeded every limit, every law and every rule. They appear undisturbed, attack undisturbed, flee undisturbed, and indeed, lately I see with interest that they have targeted the media, which are inappropriate to the government. What's going on, Mr. Tsipras? Why do you like such phenomena? Is there still an open communication line between some of your executives and the anti-detectoral area today? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't rush to accuse us of spaghetti because, you know, unfortunately, the facts are disgusting. Let me remind you, in this House, what was the first legislative initiative by the Minister for Justice, Mr Paradise? It was the satisfaction, almost, of all the demands of the imprisoned terrorists. And your interest in the release of the sentenced five times in life, for five murders, Savva Xirou, is at least suspicious. Of course, your executive - I imagine Mr Lambrou has not been deleted from SYRIZA - had taken over the "negotiations" with several prisoners in Korydalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u13	What's the lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u14	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Panassey, tell Mr. Panassey. Don't tell me. He says it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u16	Read about Cinnamon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u17	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u18	He lied?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Balaura, be quiet, please. We listen very carefully. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Be quiet too, please. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u20	I wonder, Mr Tsipras, although today you are still redeeming some notes. So the time has come in this Chamber, finally, to tell the truth. The tolerance, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to low-voltage violence, finally raises terrorism. Why, do you know what, Mr. Tsipras? The distance that separates a boogeyman from a molotov and a molotov from a kalashnikov is finally small. And the theory...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u21	The axe?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u22	Did you forget about the axes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u23	Quiet, please. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u24	Kalebokas had boobs, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u25	I'll talk to you later. Don't worry. You'll answer later. You know, Mr Tsipras, it is a theory which has been confirmed in many other countries and in many other societies. It's the theory of broken windows, if you've heard it. A broken window, an act that may seem relatively painless, can easily lead to an escalation of violence. And the revolutionary gymnastics of the 'children-anti-democrats', which happened to the systematic protection of SYRIZA officials - not to forget these, Mr Tsipras - is in danger of eroding a new generation of ruthless terrorists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u26	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u27	Unfortunately, however, you know, the security problem is not just about the hoodmen and it is not just about the aspiring terrorists. The citizen today, Mr Tsipras, feels unprotected. And, unfortunately, for you the evidence confirms him. You mentioned the need for the police to protect citizens from common crime. I agree with you. So, look at the statistics: The robbery increased, on the ground, in the first six months of 2015 by about 15% compared to the first half of 2014. Thefts, burglaries increased both in Attica and in the territory by 6%, and the image of lawlessness has unfortunately returned to the centers of the major cities. Coordinated operations, against infringement, were limited to the minimum and actions to upgrade the Greek Police, which you now remembered in your speech, were abandoned and cancelled in practice, the previous government's plan for pedestrian patrols, while the police, in theory, carrying out these pedestrian patrols orally, are aimed at carrying out other projects, mainly at keeping their government officials and offices. He was abandoned on the substance - your Minister himself confessed to it - the institution of the Neighbourhood Police. And, of course, the Delta Group was abolished, as demanded by the young people of SYRIZA and Ruvikon, and, today, by Ruvikon. He knows there's no direct intervention team at all. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Then, of course, the metro hits, the Direct Action and Group Z have now taken on the guarding of static stations and static targets. They function on the substance as a static force. So you are fundamentally altering the nature of these Services. I wonder: The Government has declared that it will remove some two thousand policemen from the Office of Officials. How many people are employed in service today, Mr. Toska? Tell us, because according to our data, they are more than they were at the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u28	Of course I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u29	You'll hear them. If that's the way you want it, you'll hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u30	At the same time, of course, the Police Departments and Security Departments are being dismantled since they operate in an elementary manner, with staff of five and six people, who are making friendly efforts to meet their obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u31	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u32	And the government’s prejudices of police personnel have weakened its will and interest, because the policeman today feels disgraceful. And I imagine that all the policemen, who have heard your speech today, feel even more disgraceful, because in words and projects you have effectively disarmed the police. Of course, what exactly happened in the annual crisis for the years 2015-2016? How many skilled, experienced, renowned officers were cared for at an early age, Mr. Tsipras? The substance is one, and that is in no way questionable. On the other hand, you made it clear from your introductory position. For the SYRIZA Government security and public order, quite simply, are not a political priority. The moral support of the police, who in adverse circumstances is doing his duty, is not compatible with the moral strangles of the "first time left". So, ladies and gentlemen, we need a complete reversal of course. However, for this to happen, a serious security policy is needed, which will have the citizen's focus, with full respect for his rights. And in his rights, Mr Tsipras, we obviously also include the right to quality of life and the right to ownership. And there is a need for a drastic improvement in the security services provided by the State, and the creation of a single national security area for our country is at last required. And that requires other perceptions than those which you have today. And we need a completely different framework, with completely different structures from those that exist today. And now it is necessary to link all services, which have a duty to ensure the security of citizens and the national area under the supervision of a modern ministry. We, Mr Tsipras, are presenting a comprehensive proposal today, which will make people's lives safer and which you can take as a hint and make some of these proposals. The sure thing, in my view, is that you will ignore it, insisting on your ideas. In any case, sooner or later what we tell you will be done by us when we come to the government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We, Mr Tsipras, therefore, propose the creation of a single Ministry of Home Affairs and Security with overall responsibility and competence, the planning and implementation of a coherent internal security policy, a ministry which is obviously dealing with the refugee - immigration problem. An umbrella ministry, which will bring together and coordinate, among other things, the self-evident areas of public order, security and protection of all borders and civil protection. Apart from the creation of a strong strategic ministry, we also need to create a new terminal structure for Security and Fire Forces, so that the state can finally have a single expression in this area. Through the redistribution of human resources and resources, without additional costs, Mr Tsipras, it is necessary to establish a national coordination centre for crisis management and civil protection, which can ensure an immediate, coordinated and effective response from the whole state if conditions require this. It is, at last, imperative that a single monitoring body should also operate - on land and seas - so that this uncontrolled chaos can be brought to an end today and that national sovereignty can be fully restored. Of course, communication and cooperation structures need to be created both with local government and with local communities. Even today when we are talking about refugee, Mr Tsipras, there is no organised dialogue and debate with local government, with regions and municipalities. It is, of course, necessary to create a new framework for cooperation, for clear cooperation, for the internal security system with the Ministry of National Defence and the Armed Forces, so that all their arms can be captured. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when knowledge and information are economic resources and also key power factors, early collection, processing, exploitation of policies, military and economic information are key to creating a reliable effective security policy. Let's not hide behind our finger. The NSA, today, lacks the requirements and challenges of the time, presents huge organic dysfunctions, needs a major modernisation in order to be able to fully respond to its critical mission. Responsibility, upgrading of education, training of executives, modernisation, strengthening of its operational capabilities, deepening of cooperation with other similar services abroad must be the first priority of any serious government. Ladies and gentlemen, for decades now, in many countries in the world, the idea has been that in an ever-changing environment of different challenges, of diverse threats, a one-dimensional approach to the problem of national security is now ineffective. Many countries - the United States, Great Britain, France - have advanced the establishment and establishment of an executive, advisory body, which covers all aspects of security. I am referring to the need to set up a National Security Council in our country too. I think, therefore, that it is time, at last, to move forward with the establishment of a very small institution of increased prestige, which is referred directly to the Prime Minister. This is a low-cost intervention, but increased efficiency. Obviously, not only internal security, foreign and national defence ministries, but also other ministries, because you know well that in our time, security has economic, energy and other dimensions. In conclusion, as far as possible, Mr Tsipras, our proposals are concerned. A new Ministry of Home Affairs and Security, a modern National Intelligence Agency, exclusively focused - I stress - on the early prevention and response of multiple challenges, but also an increased advisory board of National Security bodies are a threefold institutional change that we propose in order to enable Greece to strengthen security without altering fundamental individual rights. However, an even more necessary dimension to this policy, which I propose, is the greatest, the best possible cooperation between domestic security services and the respective European services. You mentioned in your first position that we have indeed received many congratulations on the way our own services operate. I have no reason to question what you are saying, Mr Tsipras, but unfortunately, in the area of European cooperation your Government and SYRIZA are sending out blurred messages. I do not say that arbitraryly. I'll haunt it. Note: Just last week the European Parliament adopted a very important directive. It is a directive which provides for the transmission of passenger data by airlines to the safety authorities of the twenty-eight Member States. This creates something that has been a request for security services throughout Europe for many decades, namely, a European record of passenger data, Passenger Name Record data, a valuable record - I hope you will also - which will make a decisive contribution to the efforts of the European Union's security authorities to face future terrorist attacks. Your MEPs have not voted in favour of this directive, along with the Golden Dawn. They voted against this directive. So tell us, in the end, Mr. Tsipras, what are your views really? What do you think? What are your positions? Can you finally, even today, even with a delay, say here to the National Representation: 'Yes, we condemn the violence from wherever it comes'? You'll tell me, I'll call you. Yes, I invite you to state the obvious. Unfortunately, however, it is also necessary to confuse bilingualism, which distinguishes your political speech! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because self-evident things must sometimes be said. In the republics of all forms of violence they are condemned. There is no legitimate and unfair violence, ladies and gentlemen. I imagine that, at least in this principle, you agree, Mr Tsipras, as I imagine you agree with the principle that, in every favoured state, the monopoly on legal violence is the only State that owns it. I simply say that our experience shows that the more security measures in the countries that are the first targets are growing, both terrorists may look for other objectives, more vulnerable and more vulnerable. We must shield Greece and ensure that Greece is not such a country. And Greece was, is and must remain a safe country. That is why we are having this debate, Mr Tsipras, today in the House. And that is the message that this whole Chamber must send out, in full coordination. And there is no doubt in this regard. There are no irresponsible excuses or oligopoies allowed. And you know one more thing, Mr. Tsipras, why do I hear that argument from SYRIZA officials? It is at least naive to believe that our country is by definition, it is a Priori, safe because we have traditionally good relations with the Arab world. You know very well that Europe is in a particular war - but! - and the Western way of life and the organization of society are questioned as a whole. In the end, freedom itself is questioned. One thing, however, is certain. I told you in my introduction, and I repeat in the dilemma: the security of citizens and of the country is unnegotiable. It is the first - the first, I repeat - obligation of every favoured state. And it is a commitment that the New Democracy will do without discounts on citizens' freedoms and individual rights. As you know, there are no gray zones on these matters, there are no ideological enclosures. For us individual and collective security is a prerequisite for individual and collective freedom. It's an end to democracy. The next government, the New Democracy government, will not only restore economic and social normality. It will also restore the sense of security and confidence of citizens. Safe citizens, free citizens, decent citizens, citizens with confidence in a Greece with confidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you to the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making two announcements in this House. Firstly, the following statement was made by Mr. Theocharis Theocharis: "To the President of Parliament. Mr President, I would like to inform the House in this letter that I will henceforth be part of Parliament as an Independent MEP. With appreciation, Theocharis Theocharis".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u34	Also, because today is the day of Vyron and because of Lord Byron and phillinism, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates and was toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-two students and students and two teachers attending the 3rd Junior of Vyrona, the Second Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 21 April 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The question asked by MP II of Athens, New Democracy, Constantine Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, about the multiple cost for the economy from excluding the railway line of Idomeni. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The timely question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning "subjudgment and provocacy at peaceful political events and demonstrations by Greek citizens". 3. - The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the ongoing postponements of the examinations of the candidates. 4. - The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the safeguarding of all the workers' working and insurance rights at the "ELECTRONIC ATHNS". 5. - The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the illegal chartering of vessels. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The current question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Simos Kedicoglou, to the Minister of Maritime and Island Policy, concerning the draft law promoted by the Ministry for the Establishment of a Public Authority for Ports of Piraeus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the arrhythmias in the functioning of the NSA and the deterioration of the working conditions of its employees. 3. - The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos. 4. - The Question by Mr Vassilis Kokkalis on 'the seizures in the hands of credit institutions relating to payroll or pension accounts' by No 790/18-4-2016. 5. - The Question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the urgent coverage of the needs of refugees and migrants hosted in the municipalities of Kavala and Pangaios. 6. The question raised by Mr Catherine Marcos, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Catherine Marcos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the intentions of the Ministry for the Withdrawal of the Joint Ministerial Decision amending the provisions of the Code of Food and Drinks for the "Greek yoghurt". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Demetrios Kammenos, Member of Parliament, with number 766/11-4-2016, on the 'Independent Greeks' action by the Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. 8. - The Question by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for National Defence, on the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO). 9. - The Question by Mr Spyridon Dannelos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the decision of the European Parliament Committee on Budgets to remove the administrative arm of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA) from Heraklion Crete in Athens. 10. - The question by No 729/1-4-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Tsiras, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the establishment of an immigration hosting centre at the Karditsa Police School. 11. - The current question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EAW. 12. - The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the planning of the Government and the objective of the Ministry for the seat and functions of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA). 13. Observations of the Court of Justice - The timely question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the payments of commitments made by the Agricultural Development Programme (EAGGF) 2007-2013 14. Observed. - The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the balance of subsidies to producers in Chora. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The question by Mr Asterios Kastoris, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Asterios Kastoris, Minister for Health, about occupational rights of workers (nursities, physicotherapists and gymnastics) in the field of health. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the Kalamio Dam of the Municipality of Vianno. 3. - The 2808/193/12/2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. I would ask Mr Michaelakos, the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, to speak. I would ask the other colleagues to be quiet. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister started his speech by saying that he will not follow the far-right and unimportant message emanating from many in Europe on closed borders. Every serious state controls its borders. And because the Golden Dawn, in all the tones, against all this, which has been happening in recent years and more and more in recent years in our homeland, yes, has the slogan: "Block the borders", I don't know what intolerance means, what racist, what Mr. Tsipras means. But if it is to control the borders, to have a nation, yes, then we Chrysayites and racists are also intolerance and whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u36	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Please, those in Athosia must be quiet! Don't talk up. Don't make herds. It's not possible! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u37	It's quiet anyway, Mr. President. It doesn't bother me at all. It's quiet anyway. Dead quiet! It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u38	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u39	He also said the Prime Minister that the camps are under control. I don't know which country she lives in. In Denmark? Sweden? Norway? We've got rape, we've got murders, we've got a drug deal. And for all this, it tells us that 'is a situation under control'. That's a nice check. And, of course, it's not just the hot spot in Idomeni, Mytilini, Samos, Chios and elsewhere. There's more hot spot. In Patisia, in Kypsel, in Agios Panteleimon, in Attica, in Meneme, in the western districts of Thessaloniki. There no channels were found from these luxury channels controlled by pimps in order to listen to citizens' opinion. No one was found by all those who pretend to be the informants of the Greek people.- Oh, my God! And at this point, I have something to say - since this is a topical issue and you are constantly repeating it - for what you are saying, that you will check the complexity: when, at last? Fifteen months you've been ruling. They call you Bolsheviks unjustly. The Bolsheviks in a month would have cleaned up all these things. You guys seem to be interacting. We still didn't know on the one hand or on the other what the Himalayan cat is, what was checked and what a bazaar is being played behind this whole case. "There is no security and terrorism problem," the Prime Minister said. But an investigation by a particular polling company, valid, shows that 73% of the so-called refugees - most of them illegal immigrants - are hard-pressed Islamists are opposed to the Assad regime. Furthermore, let us not forget that both the previous Memorandum and yours have been placed on the side of the rebels. So you say terrorism is not about the influx of all these refugees. I read you the names: Al Mohammad Ahmad. He was involved in the terrorist attack in Paris with more than a hundred dead. He came by Lero. Obama Grayed, Abdeslam's accomplice. He was involved in the terrorist attack in Brussels, too, with too many dead. And he went through Lero. And we have here, too, the press release of the border guards, who directly say that until last October there was no controls at the border on security issues, and what they wanted - and what they wanted - everyone said. Indeed, the proverb, which used to be the case, is that in Greece you are what declarations are still valid at the Greek border. You're whatever you say. So those in Samos, Mytilini, Idomeni state what they want. Another Afghan, another Iranian, another Syrian, whatever they want! And I should like to stress, of course, that the Prime Minister's reference to the relationship between Greece and Turkey and his view that Greece is following his policy of dialogue, at the same time that our national sovereignty is being violated every day. They take a walk above the Greek Onousses the Turkish war aircraft and Greece is selected! This is not a dialogue policy. It is a slap policy that Greek patriots and nationalists of the Golden Dawn do not tolerate! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Then, to comment on what Mr Mitsotakis has said so far, he spoke and said that it is not timely. Of course it is not timely for him, since today's debate is being held on request, by the New Democracy, dated 23 March 2013. By the date on which Mr Mitsotakis asked for this pre-dated debate to be held, there had been a million million illegal immigrants and refugees in the country. He kind of remembered it. And he remembered it late, many decades later, I would say, not only because of it, but also because he invoked it and said that in recent decades this debate has always been under the ideological hegemony of the Left. Are you serious, Mr. Mitsotakis? Seriously, gentlemen of the New Democracy? And who brought the political and ideological hegemony of the Left to this country? They didn't rule? Didn't they leave everything free? In fact, it has also had the nerve to speak of various acts of anarcho-communism, which are actually taking place in the last year. Why, in her day, what happened? Who ruled in 2008, when they literally burned Athens? The New Democracy didn't rule? It is right, then, to say that it is at least hypocritical that the New Democracy speaks and complains about the ideological hegemony of the Left, because it brought it, it allowed it, it was incapable of dealing with it. Because her policy has never had any ideology, except remoula, miza, the appointment of her "her own children" and how to loot the Greek state. He also said that there are also serious non-governmental organisations. He had reason to say so specifically, because among the non-governmental organisations not only are left-wing stars, but also the so-called false right and indeed Mr Mitsotakis' close environment, among which one had taken 100,000 euros to build a barrack somewhere in Kenya, Tanganica, Congo, which he called a school. He also noted that freedom from immunity was a different thing. He was delayed as to the originality of two and a half thousand years. Plato clearly said: "Ouk from another state of tyranny or democracy". Indeed, from what is now called democracy, which is immunity, which is a false democracy, there has been a tyranny of five to ten families who rule the place by means of mass media information, holding money in their hands. And you, who are supposed to be Bolsheviks - I'm supposed to say - do nothing against all of them, just words, that you will dismantle the complex. No, you have nothing to do with the icy air of Petersburg, which was renamed Leningrad and Moscow, nor with Magicovski, nor with all of them, but with the muddy air of Sicily and the new Left of Marcuse, Carl Popper, the open society, all of these left-wing supporters of globalisation, who want to destroy their homelands. But in this House today, apart from the fake right-wings, there are some determined to defend the national state. And you can't avoid that. Even if this Chamber is empty. They are full of squares where we go and the halls that the citizens hear from us. There are the Chrysayites. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The New Democracy security demand is therefore delayed. However, as the New Democracy speaks of security, the bars we see, which have entered the windows of all the country, in all residences, both below and above floors, have entered the SYRIZA days? To be fair, all this was done in the days of the New Democracy and PASOK, and not of SYRIZA, who, of course, bears moral responsibility, because, all these years, he was the permanent protector of every illegal immigrant who entered our country unpunishedly without any hindrance. As far as crime is concerned, beyond 2008, I will recall that on 1 September 2012, you see, the Golden Dawn in the House and the New Democracy had to show something - after an operation of MATs that literally emptyd Omonoia Square from every element of illegal immigration, they drank their coffee Mr. Dendias with Mr. Samaras and said that the class was restored. And this, like every miracle, lasted not three days, but only three hours. Immediately afterward, Dendias and Samaras left, both the MATs left, and the Omonia Square became what happened, a drug trafficking centre, a crime center. We also had evacuation from the gang’s Trikala prisons in New Democracy, Muppa and others. Immediately after their escape in March 2013, a Greek woman, who no one remembers today, Katerina Zagali, was killed by the bullets in Isthmia, Corinth. And on June 17, a thirty-six-six-six-year-old police officer, George Andritsopoulos, killed in Distomo Boeotia. It was a group of five men. The suspected vehicle with the armed with kalashnikov foreign criminals had been detected since the previous day. The state that the New Democracy speaks to us about security has done nothing so that they executed Andritsopoulos in cold blood. They were kneeling down the rest of the four policemen and they were told - there is in the file - "We will also execute you Chryssayites." For, for all these criminals, every Greek who resists is a Chrysangit. And that's real. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] They talked about the closed detention centers. I shall then refer to them. On August 10, 2013, we have an uprising in Amygdaleza, fires, incidents, escapes. Of course, we also have the Georgians' gang of irons killing innocent elderly people and much more. Not all of this happened in SYRIZA's day. They took place on the days of the New Democracy. And since the proverb says "at the house of the hanged, we are not talking about rope", it is better that neither New Democracy nor the PASOK talk about security, because security was destroyed first by them in the country and brought this rapid rise in crime. In your day, however, we have other things. On 8 April we had a legal gathering, according to the Constitution, in front of Agios Konstantinos at Piraeus Municipal Theatre. We had sent an out-of-court statement from the Committee of National Remembrance, as the law provides, to the Director of Piraeus Police. This matter is of direct concern to you, Mr Toska, since it is your responsibility. We pointed out that there is a serious case of anarchists and leftists performing anti-concentration. The anarchists and leftists have had their anti-concentrations. The police and the state didn't do anything. It is, at least, illegal and unconstitutional, that the government of a legitimate political party does not protect and allow concentrations at a distance of breath. Finally, you must stop petting all these system children, all these para-state anarchist communists, who create these things. I'm putting these in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] After all, as Mr Mitsotakis referred earlier to the 'Ruvik' and to the various others - and indeed we had a course of weapons - for us, who blame us as a criminal organization, a weaponry has not been found or exists. There they parade with guns inside the center of Athens and nothing happened. We also have the well-known case of the member of your political secretariat, Panagiotis Lambros. Let us not forget that nothing has happened with the complaints of your former minister of government, Mr Panoussis, who made public and gave debates according to which the member of your party's political secretariat was involved with convicted terrorists and accused Mr Panoussis of not having passed a law that favoured them. Panagiotis Lambrou, along with your MP, Mr Katrivanos and your Member of Lesvos, participated in another event, which we learned just a few days ago. In Mytilini, on January 14th, a port vessel finds in Turkish territorial waters a vessel with illegal immigrants. He sees a Greek offshore ship surpassing towards it and arrests them. Immediately afterwards, Minister Dritsis sends a signal that they are solidaritys, they are finally released by prosecutors, but they are on the charge and on the next day, who went to court, along with the hooded ones, protested outside the courts of Mytilini Panagiotis Lambrou, Katrivanou and the MP Lesvos of SYRIZA. So you must separate your position from all of them. Or else make the raid on the winter palace and rule! Since you can't do this thing, then separate your position. Of course, we have the New Democracy, which is complaining about illegal immigrants. But here, there is a table I will table in the Minutes, where from 2013 to 2014 we have had a very big change. In particular, we had a dramatic decrease in 2013 from 2012 to a dramatic increase from 2013 to 2014. What had happened in 2012 and had the reduction? Golden Dawn had entered the House. What happened at the end of 2013 and doubled the entry of illegal immigrants in 2014? Golden Dawn was in prison. This is something I'm figuring out, if you can finally draw your conclusions. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] What's going on today? It is really surprising that we had a murder on the 17th day of the month in the Mars Field. An Iranian, in particular, murdered an Afghan and from what the official police announcement says, the purpose of their disagreement was drugs. And the Greek people learned it on the 19th day of the month. As he learned with three days of delay the rape of a minor in a camp of illegal immigrants and refugees in Samos. Really, I would like to ask the question is a rhetorical one: why have they stopped going illegal immigrants and refugees to Kos? Because in Kos the Greeks resisted and stopped going. On the other islands, however, the Greek state hit the Greeks and all that you know happened. There are given that there are jihadists within refugees and illegal immigrants. It is true that you have failed as a government in this matter and you have literally created chaos. State in the state is Idomen and all the other great hot spots. The New Democracy has a direct responsibility for illegal immigrants. It's not today's problem. And I'm sure Mitsotakis is not the solution for Tsipras to leave, but the greatest guarantee that he will return. That is why the Greek patriots, who want a Greek that really belongs to the Greeks, should trust the only power that does not calculate the political cost and says things by their name. And this power is Golden Dawn, which proposed a law specific, to be regarded as a criminal offense to enter. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In all this turbulence there is a force that stood firm at the side of the nation. They're the Armed Forces. It is the Army, which was able, when everything was dissolved, to stand up, unfortunately doing the role of the servant in order to set up all these mechanisms, because all these famous solidaritys were simply not there. Only with a strong Golden Dawn in the Greek Parliament and the people will it be possible to stop illegal immigrants coming, not only because the Golden Dawn will rule, but because those who govern, fear - and confess it - do not go up the Golden Dawn any more. Saint Cosmas had said: "Sometimes a phony will come. Don't believe it. There will be another." In the days of this false heroine we live and hope in the other, in Greece of the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would like to finish by saying that a few hundred meters from here there is a white column where the 'democrats' - within many introductorys - Ionas Dragoumi, who wrote: 'If this is the state and acting against the nation, it is not worth it'. So I am ending with the words of Iona Dragum: Down the State. Long live the nation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that under the decision of the President of Parliament of 19 April 2016, the Committee of Inquiry was set up to investigate the legality of the lending of political parties, as well as of the owners of media companies from the country's banking institutions. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u41	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence PASOK - DIMAR Ms Font Generations for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u42	However, Mr President, I cannot help noticing that the plenary was dismantled last time when the Civilian Opposition ended, and now the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was fully inaugurated immediately after the speech of the Chief of Staff. Anyway. The Prime Minister showed up today without giving any answer at all where the country is going, which you have put on the autopilot and is heading at a speed on the cliff. You no longer have an alibi, Prime Minister. You have to give a clear explanation of where the country goes, what happens to the evaluation. You claim that you are negotiating hard and that is why you are stalling. Lies! We were told with a smile: "Today this afternoon, the evaluation is closed at the latest." Smiling froze. And as long as the government and Mr. Tsipras "negotiate hard", the account is growing for Greek citizens. That's the truth. You're wasting time without results. Secondly, you claim that the Greeks pay less with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It's still a lie. In 2009, a huge deficit of EUR 35 billion had to be addressed, annually. SYRIZA, on the contrary, received an economy that came out of the crisis, was a step before the exit from the memorandum, predicting growth for the two-year period of 6%. Of course, with the anti-corruption activities and the government's acronyms you managed to reintroduce to the recession, to have capital control and, of course, to relive to uncertainty and insecurity. Last year you voted and implemented measures of 3.6 billion. The government proudly admits that it has agreed to measures of 5.4 billion this year. And now there's a 3 billion-euro account coming up. A total of about EUR 12 billion for the Greek citizens, which you have already agreed, and we see what will happen from now on. Thirdly, you are claiming that you are currently sharing burdens more fairly. Lies! The increase in VAT to 24% but also to many indirect taxes mainly affects low incomes, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and leaves no room for such arguments. So don't listen again to the fact that the non-preferential ones are supposedly not affected. Your target is the young, the low-pays and the "blocks". Drive the middle class into poverty and your direction is levelling for everyone. Everybody down. Fourthly, you were talking about the debt cut. One more lie for you. Turns out you have led the debate behind the 2012 Eurogroup decision on the debt issue. And because, of course, lies are not enough, you stick behind and stories about the dragon - fairy tale without a dragon - the International Monetary Fund. Like before the International Monetary Fund was a lamb! But you don't convince anyone, Mr. Tsipras. Without ignoring the long-term extreme positions taken by the International Monetary Fund, with which we have and have complete opposition, you only bear the responsibility for the course of the negotiation. Of course you also have fairy tales of bad guys working for your destabilisation, of your good people who have a problem with their left conscience, of leaks of supposedly resigning ministers who cannot and Members who are ready to vote or resign. Although this little fairy tale can be useful for everything in the future. Crying and irresponsible! With lies and fairy tales, Greece is not saved. Give it a solution, or you leave, gentlemen of the government! You only accumulate damage in the country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the subject of today's debate, which was raised at the request of the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. Listen, we've watched your positions very carefully so far. We refuse to enter the phony "law and order or immunity". For us, for the Democratic Alliance, public security issues are particularly important. The safety of citizens is a prerequisite for the quality of our democracy and social cohesion. This is a constitutional obligation for the state. Social peace, tranquillity in trade, human cohabitation in neighborhoods, workplaces, education, for us are central issues and goals away from ideology and fear. However, the question of security must not be alibied in the conservative logic of the 'law and order'. Mr Mitsotakis in his letter of requesting this debate links the issue of security and terrorism exclusively to the issues of the refugee crisis. This approach is incorrect and deeply conservative. I do not know whether the New Democracy is under pressure from the communiqués establishing parties on its right. We cannot, however, leave or open the way to reasonable demonization of refugees. Security issues must in no way be used as a pretext for questioning citizens' freedoms and rights. For the democratic progressive party, security and freedom to go together and that is unnecessarily for us. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no nationalist and horrific approaches to this issue because they fuel extreme right-wing obsessions and fascist cries of the Golden Dawn. It needs an objective and integrated strategy for the country, but also for Europe. And to put things in place and avoid mistakes that disorientate, but also divide at the same time, firstly, we must not link terrorism to refugees and immigrants. They're afflicted people from the war suffering, from persecution, from economic poverty. They're asking and they're entitled to protection. After all, the evidence shows that most terrorists have been the birth of European societies, and that must deeply concern us. Secondly, we must not make the mistake of identifying terrorism as a whole with Islam. Let us not forget that millions of Muslims live in Europe in a way that is perfectly peaceful. The theory of the conflict of cultures, ladies and gentlemen, is a dangerous theory that can function as a self-esteeming prophecy. Thirdly, we cannot incriminate the free movement of persons within Europe and accept the closure of borders, effectively abolishing the Schengen Treaty. But while internal borders should remain open, the European Union's external borders should be effectively protected. In the fight against terrorism, we really need more and more efficient Europe. No country alone can deal with the problem. We must therefore implement the European security agenda presented by the European Commission to combat terrorism. We must set up a central European information collection and processing body, working closely with national agencies. Perhaps we should create a European FBI, a true European police force to combat terrorism and international crime, from trafficking in human beings to arms trafficking. But, above all, we must improve social conditions, limit the effects of marginalisation, poverty, exclusion, conditions that form a fertile environment for the development of fanaticism. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come in particular to the problems within our country. As far as the refugee is concerned, the country is trapped with the enclaved refugees in it. The European Union preferred to give Turkey the keys. Unfortunately, the government's inadequacy and weakness with the wrong messages - with the sea borders that do not exist, with the immigrants who are melting and then disappear - contributed decisively to this. However, it seems that Turkey is already undermining the Agreement and at the same time trying to use it to highlight and record its demands and doubts against our country's sovereign rights in the Aegean. This is a situation that is not dealt with by spasm moves, theatricalisms, variation costumes and dangerous proliferations, but it needs seriousness, determination, national understanding, firm positions and international alliances. Turkish intransigence requires substantial moves from our country, based on International Law and the Treaties, and is not treated with awkward answers, flowers and smiles. We also need to take immediate action in the refugee region. We need to signal the whole world that we have fulfilled our obligations and guarantee our borders. As far as refugees are concerned, we have lost control - and to be quite clear, you have lost control, ladies and gentlemen, from the outset. Time to stop the images of shame in Idomeni, Piraeus, in Greek. By the way, I ask: is it possible for the country's main railway axis to be closed for more than a month and, Prime Minister, to come and ask you, about, to say 'bravo'? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Who will pay the costs for all this damage for Greece? Yes, work with the real non-governmental organisations and any other citizens, but do not leave any room for allegedly substituting solidarity. Finally, show the image of a serious European state. If there are any violations, illegal behaviors, you can deal with them now. Otherwise it seems like you're building enemies to hide your own responsibilities. Bad conditions and the challenge of conflict are a problem for both refugees and Greek citizens. Now Mr. Muzalas admits you haven't checked Idomen. We say from day one that the state was out of place. And Piraeus is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL. You have built thirty-seven different places as refugee accommodation centres, of which nineteen hosts over five hundred. This means that it is too difficult to manage. Most of them operate without health infrastructure, without staffing, without separation of refugees, migrants, as well as vulnerable groups, without health and education services. The map of refugees is impressive. You have placed most of the structures near the border. I don't understand the feasibility. In practice, it's like you're closing your eye on the traffickers. And, of course, fifteen thousand thirty-eight refugees are outside the official structures. On the other hand, it is not a sustainable policy for the government to make ghettos, small cities in the cities. And it is not possible not to tell the refugees the truth, not to officially inform them and to fall victim to the traffickers and any scientist. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, change course. Finally, organise the asylum services. Start the UNHCR program for hospitality in homes. Finally, drink Europe and don't be so willing beyond every limit. Press to start the relocation program. Finish with Idiom and Piraeus. Close the structure in the Greek and every too large hosting structure. On Monday Mr Muzalas, desperate and himself of the government's irreorganization, revealed that the government's aim is to despair refugees and leave Idomen alone. Beware, though, why despair and despair cause problems, do not solve. Don't get out of the bad conditions, people on the extremities. I told you before. Separate, finally, refugees and immigrants. This is part of the national line that we have drawn up at the Conference of Political Heads under the President of the Republic, which you have made a rag, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. Separate them so that those who are not entitled to asylum may return to their homes. And unfortunately, they are being released today because of lack of planning. We learn that on the islands, now, what we expected and said two days ago is happening. Immigrants and refugees who have completed twenty-five days of stay in reception and identification centres are released. But they are not allowed to leave the islands. You promised that the procedures on the islands - the asylum application and its second-rate examination - would be completed in fifteen days, so that the European Union-Turkey Agreement could be implemented. It turns out that what was announced, obviously, was not possible. Whether it is your fault or the European Commission which has not sent the officials to examine the demands, as promised, the result remains the same. The entire islands become containment areas and, in fact, detention areas. If you don't get any quick initiatives, we'll see the images we lived through last summer again. And this time it will be even more difficult, because the refugees released will live under the pressure of re-promotion in Turkey. I believe that you understand your responsibility to our islands and also to the refugees. And finally, protect women, disabled people, young children and every vulnerable group. We've been yelling for months. Unfortunately, we are constantly being heard tragically from both the Greek and Chios. You have responsibilities, gentlemen of the government, for all this. Speak with honesty at last. Collaborate with local government and local communities. At least that would do a government that's blaming itself on the left. Ladies and gentlemen, the sense of security in Greece that we are visionary is a cornerstone for real social peace, employment security, a peaceful investment and an entrepreneurial environment. This general feeling reflects the anguish of the entire Greek society. Here I would like to say again a great thank you to all the women and men of the Security and Armed Forces who, together with the solidarity of the citizens, have taken out Greece in the refugee crisis. The development of a new internal security policy requires a brave and comprehensive reform in all the structures of the Greek Police and the Fire Corps. The aim must be to implement the role of the Security Bodies, which is to prevent and combat modern forms of crime, to respect legality, to inspire citizens' sense of security, to address natural disasters and to develop and implement a modern civil protection planning. It presupposes the armoury of dignity - I do not know if this word tells you something - and institutional changes that will upgrade the Security Body to manage properly, with emphasis both on prevention and prevention. It presupposes that we will respond together - and that is why we have proposed a cross-party committee - to the questions: What do we want police? What is its real role and how will it satisfy the needs of the citizen? What changes do they need and how will they be achieved so that they are not parties, have time-consuming power and support for all of us? We are proposing to set up a National Security Council, according to the standards of the National Foreign Policy Council. The Ministry of Civil Protection must be, through a new, unified and autonomous structure, the pillar of the instability of the sense of security for citizens. Headquarters and services of ELAS, the Fire Corps and the Port Authority need radical changes and restructuring, but as a result of not clipping and fragmenting interventions, but an integrated intervention, as a result of an analysis of modern social and forensic data and the exploitation of national and international experience. Critical, decisive parameters are the upgrading of education, but also the continuous retraining of security officers, the release of services and personnel from par excellence and administrative responsibilities and the modernisation of the fleet and equipment, using modern funding tools. A prerequisite for the success of any design is the active, practical support of the men and women of the Security Councils themselves, who, in the vast majority, are doing their duty with self-determination and heroism, especially under these conditions which have been prevailing in recent months in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of whether the SYRIZA - ANEL Government can implement all the above, unfortunately, our answer but, it seems, the certainty of the majority of the Greek people is negative. The solution to the tragedy of the country cannot be the continuation of this paradox, because it is evolving into tragedy. It's time for everyone and especially for you, gentlemen of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Birthday. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the high school of Lefnimis Corfu. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, the floor is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, to be precise, the problem we had to discuss today is another and not what Mr Mitsotakis is saying in his proposal. It is in itself problematic that the murder attacks are linked in Brussels, Paris, etc., to the incarcerated refugees. Not that we underestimate anything, but we must remember that these attacks were carried out by citizens of the Member States of the European Union. After all, the problem of the security or insecurity that citizens feel has specific causes, which are found in the bucket of the wrong political choices and decisions of all the governments to date, which is still under way, of course, in the last SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. To be honest, what we had to discuss today and, in our opinion, we need to discuss the time left to discuss, even at the level of exchanges of views for the information of the Greek people, is how and if there is any possibility of getting out of this vicious circle of constant and recent decisions, such as the European Union-Turkey Summit, signed by the Greek Government, to which they have put their hands - in fact by signing them under the joint communiqué at the meeting under the President of the Republic - and the other parties. It is a decision, which essentially continues their deadlock policy to date, both in Syria and in the wider region. It is a decision that enclaves refugees, immigrants in our country when almost none of them want to stay here, but they want to go to another destination, as they deserve. It is a decision that creates problems for the Greek people, not in general public security problems, but significant problems of insecurity along with accumulated anger, due to unemployment, constant poverty due to the anti-grassroots measures, the memorials, which you have all voted on and continue, of course, to implement, regardless of the voices or demagogic crowns we hear here in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the cycle of the murderous attacks in Paris, Brussels and Pakistan, like the six bombings in five months in our neighborhood, in Turkey, undoubtedly trigger dangerous developments. It is more than certain that other repressive measures are already being used and will then be used as a backdrop for escalating the attack, war and against democratic people's rights, freedoms and the Greek people by imposing other repressive measures, which in fact are aimed at limiting the political struggle itself. In addition, we can see that in the communications from the European Union and in the conclusions of the Council of Ministers of the Interior of the twilight alliance. In order to better understand the situation internationally and in the region we need to deepen our analysis, explain the causes, but also the historic path of these own forces and the developments in a world that is experiencing intense conflicts, competition, with conflicting interests in controlling the markets, wealth, roads to transport energy, geostrategic, economic, political, military ailments. The murderous strikes in Paris and before - November 2015 - and recently in Brussels, which is also a seat of NATO, a seat of the European Union, were certainly targeted and integrated into more comprehensive planning, which these numerous attacks were serving. We note that the basic overall approach must not be underestimated at all, in which such actions and the general targeting they are serving. First of all, these attacks show the structured existence and action of murder mechanisms, which are linked to the interests of powerful capitalist states, associations of imperialist, monopolistic groups. Ladies and gentlemen, everything that has been seen in the light of publicity substantiates the fact that they have won high-level connections, that they are still moving in an environment that is well protected by police and military elite forces. Mechanisms such as, for example, the Islamic State or the Taliban, are now known to have been created, funded and as a tool in the hands of States such as the United States of America, the European Union states, other allies, with a separate position among them Turkey, Saudi Arabia and other countries. Of course, all of this has to do with the great race of their competitions with other powers, such as Russia and China. Of course, on a path these mechanisms were made stronger, they acquired an economic political and military basis, infrastructure and, in connection with strong interests and relations with former allies, they followed the path of separatism. They adapted their objectives and strategy, upgraded their involvement in the theatre and clash with their creators and former partners. This has also happened in Afghanistan and Iraq and Libya and Syria. However, even autonomous, and with some changes in their alliances, financing and aid, at this stage again operate as a tool, as a scarecrow, as a pretext - to say so - for new interventions, for new wars in regions with significant plutonium sources, road crossings to the service of powerful and other imperialist states. Maya for the formation of these mechanisms were part of the local urban classes, military, administrative, state-run, political officials who had already assumed special responsibilities there during the intervention and occupation by the US, NATO, the European Union, in particular Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. They then moved to Syria, taking advantage of the support of the imperialist bloc that had set the goal of overthrowing the Assad regime, in the context of the wider pursuits, reclassifications for the control of the Middle East, North Africa. Useful tool for the development of such forces is, over time, the exploitation of religious faith and the exploitation of various existent or also deliberately cultivated ethnic conflicts. For example, the utilization by the US, by NATO, by the European Union of the various variants of Sunni Islam and Sunni-Sitites relations to promote his policy of "dividing and reigning" in the Middle East and North Africa is indicative. The history of all exploiting societies has proven countless times that religious differences, as well as ethnic differences, existential and undernourished, were exploited and exploited to promote the interests of all the sovereign classes. Such contradictions, however, always and especially at present, are only the cave that actually manifests great social and class conflicts. There is now considerable experience and internationally showing, for example, that both the hits previously in the Twin Towers in New York and Paris lately have been used, immediately, to speed up intervention and conflict. At the same time, of course, they were also exploited to strengthen repression measures both in America and at the Euro-Union level and in every Member State of the European Union, of course, between them and Greece. This is always done on the pretext of the so-called'safety pins', which on every occasion they discover, to use them in practice to strengthen repressive measures to prevent the people. In the name of combating radicalisation, as the European Union says, the fight against workers, the poor people's strata against their exploiters, is deliberately being hampered. In fact, here today, Mr Mitsotakis has been involved from refugees and attacks in Paris and elsewhere, until the demonstrations, the small ones, as he said, of the few people, but even the blocks of farmers who were fighting for their right, with fair struggles, with fair demands and on the streets of the race. That's what got them into, made them sick with the murderous and criminal attacks. It is no accident that on the occasion of recent attacks, for example, in Europe, as you will have seen, mainly slums - in Paris, in Belgium, in other countries - but to wear chains to people's families, by identifying the poverty that capitalism brings, this system, as allegedly the cause of the birth of such appalling acts of murderous mechanisms, just to conceal that they are the creations of urban state mechanisms, secret services that play their assigned role in the war of interests and competition. In fact, some political forces, and here in our country, have not learned anything from the past from the historical experience? In fact, gentlemen, have you realised how many and how many measures of repression, multiple laws have passed in recent years in the name of dealing with this alleged terrorism? And after every such piece of legislation shows up again some supposed security gap and a new law comes to be replaced by another worse. What else must be done to boldly admit that these so-called security measures are so far as all the intrinsic causes are concerned, the reasons that create these mechanisms, the various actions, to pass their plans again to the detriment of the people's interests. What should we want to do first? In our country, but also in other countries of the European Union, tens of terrorists have been voted on and its directions, of course. Such is the European warrant for the arrest and extradition of suspects incorporated into our country with the second terrorist. The European Union - United States of America terrorist agreement on arrest, extradition and even kidnapping of suspected citizens of their member countries. The e-mail of each staff, given at European and international level. The exchange of data, the recording and uncontrolled use of biometric data between police and judicial authorities. The European Directive on monitoring, recording and archiving of communications. The Council of Europe Convention and the European Union Decision on the Prevention of Terrorism. The Lisbon Treaty in which the Union's repressive framework is upgraded. The public-private area of surveillance cameras and the general use of the electronic file. The multi-legislative draft by which the 'gullar' was introduced, the self-prosecuting principle, the extension of the waiver of confidentiality, the DNA bank, the strengthening by laws and measures of all institutions and mechanisms of repression, such as the Europol, Eurojust, the Rapid Intervention Teams, the Frontex System, Schengen, the European Prosecutor and many others, which I do not have time to say in detail. All this is well known. Of course, they have only been, at the most, in the last fifteen years. A huge task of tension, strengthening the diverse and multi-suppressive mechanisms at the expense of the people has been promoted. A practical result, though? Minimal! Zero, I'd say better. One day they celebrated that they were intimidating the Taliban and the other day Bin Laden and Al-Qaeda showed up. Then, they too were appalled by Boko Haram, Al Nusra, ISIS, and he went by saying. And when we destroy them, other branches like Lernaia Hydra will appear, since corrupt power and immunity are present, since with the competition and wars capitalists for the profits of capital and the sharing of prey from the monopolies there is no crime that they are not enough to do, even the most appalling, as we are all witnessed lately by the media. Ladies and gentlemen, it must not escape our attention that, in the context of confrontation with Russia, both the European Union and NATO, with its armada now in the Aegean, have currently upgraded their relations with Turkey. In addition to the multi-formal support they provide, they continue even more challenging to make the eyes wrong in its aggression in the Aegean and in the open of Cyprus. However, it is clear that the support of the United States in Turkey also has limits, that is to say, where the Kurds are leveraging their interests in the wider region and Syria. Since the beginning, we have warned you that the call for NATO to come down to the Aegean Sea and the signing of an agreement between the European Union and Turkey, with the agreement of Greece, will pave the way for Turkish aggression and challenging. The reward of Turkey's reactionary policy by the European Union gives air to the sails of Turkish expansion, the claim of colonialism in the Aegean Sea, the break-up of zones, our constant violations of our sovereign rights. You know all this. You're told by the military, by the workers in the country's Armed Forces. It's not the inability to blame you. But the right prediction has to do with whether you are prepared to make similar political decisions, even conflict with imperialist politics, their wolves and designs. Unequivocally say not in the use of Greek territory for aggressive actions against other countries from the United States, NATO, Europeans, etc. Have an alternative policy, but also, of course, be determined to implement it. But hypocrisy in all of you is too much. Capitalist states, political forces that are with them raise tons, after every bombing and try to wash their sins, present themselves as innocent pigeons. However, their dangerous role is demonstrated by their own actions, by their involvement in imperialist competition, wars, and this is of course also about the previous governments and the present one. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's day more, their war is not just confined to the battlefields. Skys from this war are also the numerous blows of criminal mechanisms killing civilians in the centre of Europe, but also in Asia, Africa, America. And let some not pretend to fall from the clouds considering these suicide bombers and kamikazis are an unprecedented phenomenon. Just remind them that in all the imperialist wars both in the First World and in the Second World and in other local or regional wars we had this phenomenon. Besides, it's not a new Islamic invention. The Japanese - hence the word - are the first to use them in suicide attacks either on military planes or elsewhere, etc. The fact that today's so-called asymmetric threats sow death suddenly in civilians does not change the substance. Do NATO bombings a few years ago in Yugoslavia, in our neighborhood, in other countries, in Syria now do not always have civilian victims, women and children, their homes, hospitals that go to heal, their children's schools to educate? Does it really make any difference to life and death, if some people call them'side-loss', as Oll Bright said, or do they call them otherwise? Immediately after the war, one meets with the endless waves and the desperate refugees who are crushed on the barbed wires of the closed borders, detention and expulsion centres, which have been condemned by the European Union's own decisions, which you have also signed. In addition, problems arise from the unconscious and suspicious action of the ten NGOs that grow like mushrooms outside and within temporary hospitality centers, but also where refugees camp without other structures, such as Idomeni, Piraeus and elsewhere, are camping. From the first moment on we have raised the matter. This indeed raises a number of issues. This is also a maximum question of safety and security. They're playing a dangerous role. It can be found among them all walnuts from well-established businesses, from secret service agents of all continents to smugglers, drug traffickers, weapons, organ trafficking, trafficking in white flesh, whatever you want and it doesn't fit. They wear the mask when the anarchist solidarity and when the covered Nazi fascist. And they are among them from the northern countries or from all over the world. Refugees are being exploited, mainly pushed to extortion, which is at the expense of the refugees themselves and at the expense of the Greek people and the residents of the host regions. All of us retire. They can't be tolerated by the government, they can't be donated. From the outset he does this because - we believe - mystically thinking then he saw that he could temporarily serve it. Why did it not provide staff with sufficient staff, even with new recruitments, so that it was only under the control and responsibility of the Ministry of Migration, the state, the municipalities, the regions, and even the UN High Commissioner? And, of course, to make use of the expression of solidarity, but also of any other practical assistance, was needed by the organized trade union movement, by the people's movement that has a name, it also has an address, experience in managing problems, in expressing genuine class solidarity, rather than solidarity - a monkey from the so-called solidarity NGOs, in the end, irresponsible to the majority of all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC is addressing its proposals and its positions, its concerns and outside this Chamber. We are mostly addressing the Greek people and youth. On the basis of all this experience, we say that it can be better realised at this time by our people that the imperialist war, its diverse consequences, that is, what the JRC warned of through its positions and assessments, is not a remote reality. They have, of course, kept the words of sympathy here today to the workers and to the security bodies, to the firemen, to the ports, and so on. However, workers in all these areas do not expect words. They're waiting for projects. Of course, now is the time. At the time when pensions are being reduced, wages are being reduced, there are many shortages of staff - particularly for firefighters, who are also being mobilised today, and we are also entering the difficult anti-missile period - such measures are needed in particular, not words. The only classic, patriotic, national and at the same time international attitude is that of rejecting workers from all the popular layers of such invitations, i.e. entering under a foreign flag. To oppose this - and I refer to the main issue of the debate we have today - only the organisation of the self-interested folk struggle against and the imperialist war, against the so-called pistol-gun-gun-gapped peace by the warring soldiers, that is to say, the end of the wars, until the end of the causes of all this. This struggle is indiscriminately tied to the struggle to solve the crucial issue of power - the real power, however - for the people. In order for our people and other peoples to come out of war with this rotten exploitation system, the capitalism that gives rise to crises, competition, poverty, wars, refugee, murderous bombings, innocent victims: men, women and children. This objective must be decided by our own people along with other peoples to put it. And then it will have a definitive and final guarantee of its safety, health, education, prosperity, lasting and lasting peace. And if that seems to be enough today, like a dream, like Utopia, in their hands alone, we claim to do so, to do it, to do it, to do it, to do it and to make it happen and meaning of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. Excuse me, Minister of National Defence. Until you're here, I changed your department.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u46	You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u47	They don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the debate started, I listened carefully to the Chief of Staff Representation who said that the Government's MPs are not interested in the debate. I counted them. We were a hundred and twenty-nine. Now they are five MPs and the President of the Police Department. I'm glad, Mr. President. Welcome. I think this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is a debate that is taking place at the most inappropriate time that could be done. We are in a tourist season before. Greece - thank God - because of the great efforts made by the security authorities, the Greek Police, is a country that is considered one of the most secure in the European Union and NATO. It is a country that has managed to contribute to international investigations and arrests, when necessary, dismantling international circuits. The citizens who will come to Greece like tourists in the summer feel safe. And I think that this should not be debated in this time period, because all we can do is give those who want to attack Greece the tools to use or paraphrase, if you want - I say - to paraphrase - words that are being made here in this House and which, with some extremes, have been mentioned up to the limits of Kabul. Let's see what's going on, but let's see exactly what's going on with the issue of security, in relation to immigrants and refugees. I have asked to see the statistics, which we have from ELSTAT, to understand exactly what is going on in our country. It is true that the media show an icon from Idomeni, from Piraeus - like many European channels, foreign channels - showing that Greece is a country flooded with refugees and immigrants, by foreigners supposedly uncontrollable. But that's not the truth. The truth is that at the moment in our country they are all registered, as the European Union itself says, about fifty thousand immigrants and refugees. Do you know how many were in 2001? According to the 2001 census: ELSTAT - there were seven hundred ninety thousand ninety-three, sixty percent of the population, and even the non-registered - those not recorded - between eight hundred seventy thousand and one million, that is 8% to 9% of the country's total population. I'm filing it in the House. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2011-a source of ELSTAT - the census records nine hundred and ten thousand nine hundred nineteen foreigners, while for non-registered, each scholar can resort to divinational skills to determine the number. I'm filing it in the House. In 2014, again, census data for 2011 and the Greek Police, specifying the estimated number of listed foreigners in one million two hundred and three hundred forty and the non-registered, again, at the disposal of each scholar. I'm filing that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u49	In 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u50	In 2015 there is currently no record beyond 52.483...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u51	A million has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u52	Where do you see them? You guys know that from the police?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u53	A million didn't pass through the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u54	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u55	He came through the country. I'm glad you say that. One million three thousand who went through the country left the country. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u56	How many did you record?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u57	The one million that passed through the country is in the country? Have you seen the image in Athens at the moment being a match? Saint Panteleimon, do you remember him, Mr. Cryazides? Saint Panteleimon was on the command of Samara - Venizelos. Do you remember what happened with the four hundred Syrian tents found in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u58	It wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u59	All right, don't argue about that now. Please! Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u60	Can I tell you something? Let's honestly talk here now. The truth is different: then, no record was recorded, there was no record. Now they are all registered, all of them have passed through the Eurodac system, where they have fingerprinted, and their data are recorded in Europol and Interpol, those who have been identified as suspects have been handed over to the Authorities and are issued and there is no one who is not registered, for a simple reason: because if they have not been registered, they have no hope of being involved in the refugees, when they are transferred, in the European countries. I would like to say here that I understand that this is a political choice. I respect her, but I emphasise her. I saw the tweet of the Chief of Staff Responsibility, what you did, Mr Mitsotakis: "We are stopping today a post-political taboo, an elbow that had imposed on the public debate an ideal, marginal leftist logic". I'm not a leftist, and you know I have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u61	You're having an affair. You're with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u62	Do I? Now I'm a communist. I'm either a far right or a communist. You have to decide. It can't be both. You call me a far-right, and now you call me a leftist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u63	Near the two are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u64	You're double face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u65	I'm an independent Greek. Anyway. What you are saying - I will remind you - was what Mr Voridis said as an MEP, when Costas Karamanlis said 'I do not cooperate with the extremes'. That was exactly the phrase that Vorides said: "Get out of the aristocratic logic, the post-cultural taboo, and so forth," saying that refugees, immigrants, foreigners, must be arrested, exiled, done what they had in mind at the time. But, in my opinion, this is the sad thing, apart from keeping Mr Vorides within the New Democracy, 'the extremes', said by Karamanlis, you accept it. This logic, however, is that which makes extremists do the thing in the country's political rally. You mentioned - and rightly so - the molotovs. I agree with you. You have rightly referred to the loots of traffickers. The Independent Greeks even took over the offices. I would remind you, however, that the lotions and molotovs are exactly the same in politics as the axes held by the Borides, who were entangled in the New Democracy. I'm against both the pockets and the molotovs and the styles. Because if in the country of the Republic we talk about the logic of the styles, then axes will appear. But if we talk about the logic of the pockets, molotovs will appear. What have we done right now? At the moment we have succeeded - and with the involvement of the Armed Forces - to have all refugees and immigrants registered. In fact, this message we send to those who have not entered the structures that are currently able to host all the migrants and refugees is that, while remaining in Idomen or remaining in the port of Piraeus, they have no hope of being promoted, if they are not fully documented, for their relocation through the centres prepared by the Greek state, with the help of the European Union. And in that, at least, we've taken the congratulations. I told you about the involvement of the Armed Forces, because I heard a phrase from you, Mr President, which I consider to be the Minister of National Defence. You said that the Armed Forces should be more involved in security matters. I want to tell you that I am completely opposed to this. Under paragraph 1 of Article 48 of the Constitution, in order to enable the Armed Forces to do even what is being done in Brussels or in other countries to become involved, the country must be declared to be a siege and the Greek Parliament must take a decision. Only then can the Armed Forces be involved. I want to assure the Greek Parliament that the Armed Forces will not be involved unless they have such a mandate from the Greek Parliament. And I hope that there will never have to be such an order. The second is in relation to the information. Indeed, there is a huge lack of information in Europe as a whole, because there is a gap especially with regard to children. And that was first pointed out at the Department of National Defence. The Eurodac system can record citizens from 12 years of age and over. But there's a huge gap. Children 0 to 12 years old are not registered, 40% of refugees are unaccompanied children and 100 000 have been lost in Europe. So what did we propose? I believe that this is also a matter for the Greek Parliament to deal with. I have already put it at European Union and NATO level. We should decide on the use of biometric elements and biometric identity, at least as far as children are concerned. We cannot leave unaccompanied children who can at any time be used by traffickers or even organ dealers. The children who are lost in Europe are children who can currently be in third countries and be an organ bank for traffickers. Information issues have to do with the debate that is taking place at European Union and NATO level to create wider information services. At this point I want to tell you that people are now changing. What we have done so far with great care, without ever getting the Armed Forces into the work of the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Civil Protection, is this: we have recorded all the sources that may be available from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees - with a data base of three million immigrants and refugees - so that we can facilitate the certification of whom they are refugees and what immigrants. At this point, the debate that is taking place on security or not in the country has exactly something to do with the identification of the refugee and the immigrant. Because the next question is: What is happening at the moment with the NATO agreement? I was very pleased to meet you and said that you were really in favour of this agreement. At the same time, however, I see interviews by Mr Plakatakis, Mr Dendias, who came out publicly last Sunday and spoke against the NATO agreement. I'm not telling you the NATO agreement was implemented 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u66	That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u67	Mr Chiara, however, there is a difference. With the NATO agreement between five and nine thousand refugees and migrants we had a day, today we have from ten, eighteen to eighty. The entry of refugees and migrants has therefore fallen below 10%. The result of this agreement is a reduction in the entry of refugees and migrants. The government, therefore, with the agreement it signed, in cooperation with the European Union, in cooperation with NATO, has managed to reduce entry for the first time in the last ten years. For the first time, the number of refugees and immigrants has fallen, and indeed another very important one. By ensuring that when they become hosting places in Turkey, they will not be under the Turkish authorities, but under the High Commissioner for Refugees and under the control of the European Union. What does that mean? This means that at least those who are hosted at the hosting points are transformed into refugees receiving the security required by the Geneva Agreement. They have therefore lost, with the European Union's guarantee, the term of refugee. And if they want to be transferred from there, from one safe place to another safe place, they get the title of the immigrant. But are they the ones the problem? Let's see some of the police forensics report not only in Greece, but also in the world. Because with this debate that has taken place here, it is like matching refugees with terrorists. Refugees are victims of terrorism. Those who left Syria fled because the DAS terrorists entered their homes. They had to leave their countries, their villages, their families, because they are victims of terrorism. So, are these victims of terrorism turning them into terrorists? Has it become a terrorist crime in Europe and a suspect come from refugees or immigrants over the last three years? The answer is 'no'. Those who so far have been arrested or those who are wanted are second and third generation citizens, with European countries' identities. So how do we link the refugee issue to terrorism and even at a time when Greece is the safest destination of the whole Mediterranean? Because the truth is that there are terrorist strikes in Egypt. They've collapsed whole regions of Egypt. Although there is no tourist at the moment after the hit on the plane the Russian. In Cairo, Alexandria, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Syria, Israel, Turkey's coastline. Turkey's coast is currently falling apart. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] What's the safe destination? The safe destination is Greece. And I think it is the duty of all of us to spread this with a common voice. We have nothing to share in this, nor can it become the subject of political controversy. It is a given that Greece is a safe destination. To improve our security, then, yes. Not to present the country as Kabul. I have listened very carefully to the proposals from the New Democracy and PASOK for the creation of a National Security Council. I'm so glad. Do you want me to remind you when we, as Independent Greeks, took the proposal in 2012 to create a National Security Council, what announcements did New Democracy and PASOK make? PASOK told us that we wanted - then - to hand over national security to the United States of America. The New Democracy said that we are abolishing the Ministry of National Defence, we are abolishing the ministers, who - as it said - are abolished so that they do not come to speak to the House. Welcome to our opinions and I would be happy to discuss it. Mr Ciara, National Security Council, however, cannot - to know - create a situation of insecurity in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u68	We did not create it, Mr President. It was created by reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u69	It's an insecure country, you say. Is the country insecure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u70	That is what the citizens are answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u71	No, please, I want to know. I'm giving my time. Is Greece insecure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u72	What do you think, Mr. Chiara? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u73	Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Ciara talking now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u76	No, Mr. Chiara, you told me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u77	What does New Democracy think? Do you dare to take a position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u78	Answer me. Is it an insecure country?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u79	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u80	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u81	Please, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u82	So here's a key point. I'm stopping my speech. I ask Mr. Chiara...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u83	She can see a graphicality...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u84	I, Mr. Dendia, the graphics, ask you. I am handwriting and I ask you: Does the New Democracy consider that Greece is not a safe country?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, the New Democracy will respond through its Head of Administration to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u86	Ask the Greek citizens what they think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u87	When the New Democracy comes up, because it's like NATO. Half of them call it safe, the others call it unsafe. We assure the Greek people that Greece is a safe country, we have responsibility for the security of the country. And we invite you, at least at this point, to take a national position. I finished my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u88	Ask the Greek citizens what they think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The President of the Potami Parliamentary Group, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u90	Ask the Greek citizens what they think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u91	You've been foul. Avramopoulos, can we ask if the country is safe, Mr. Chiara?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I think if you use the words security and insecurity in the Greek society today, your mind will go to something other than police and military. He's going to what we're living for. He's going to the insecurity of the cancer patient. You've seen the issues. Six months is the waiting for radiotherapy at the "Savvas" and two months at the "Metaxas" hospital in Piraeus. It's the job insecurity. In 7.3 on the 10th scale Greeks classify their fear of maintaining their jobs. It's the insecurity of the graduate who leaves Greece. They're leaving the best minds. Do you know how research shows that 75% of those who leave are our graduates? Also, it's the insecurity in front of the insurance. I saw the new government proposal. We'll have a chance to talk about this. But it is clear that young workers will continue to pay high contributions to cover the holes of a system that is in favour of retired people and not in favour of the world of work. Of course, it is interesting - and you will allow me to open up a small parenthesis - that, with the government's proposal to the new insurance policy, the former Members, the former mayors, the former republics, are protected. It seems that in your own republic, gentlemen of SYRIZA, there are some who are more equal than the equals. Insecurity, therefore, is what prevails everywhere, insecurity in the face of the new taxes. I am going to have to give a parentheses again, because they are very recently what you have made public. Tax, according to your proposal, will now also be paid by those who have a monthly income of EUR 680. And, of course, after 2020, free professionals, the self-employed, will pay contributions and taxes from 46% to 55%. It will be half with the tax office, i.e. the wallets of the Greeks. There is the insecurity of the world - to continue the numbering - in front of your television plans. I do not know if you have seen that the world is not convinced and that 65% of the world thinks that the phenomenon of interlocutory will grow after your last decisions. And, of course, there is insecurity to abolish the independent authorities with 76% of the world insisting that they want an EPP and not a Canadian Prime Minister. There is the insecurity, of course, of the student living in school empty shell. The classes of the Third High School have been emptied, as every other year, because the students are in school. The minimum ticket for universities in Greece is costing and is estimated at around EUR 10,000. There is the insecurity of the graduate who delivers or serves coffee for 350 euros a month, of course. There is the insecurity of the long-term unemployed - our sad first, that is, in the European Union - with five hundred and forty thousand people registered in the OAU as long-term unemployed. There is the insecurity of the small businessman, who sees everyone in his neighborhood slowly shutting down. There is the insecurity of the four hundred and fifty new unemployed of "ELECTRONIC" and the insecurity of the ten thousand new businesses that closed this year. Finally, there is the insecurity that nothing changes in the world of Greece and that the worst is ahead. I do not know if you have noticed that - and that is what concerns us, or, anyway, we must be concerned about all of us, regardless of what we are voting on - 75% of the citizens - three to four citizens, namely - says that this political system is bankrupt and rewards the unworthy and inadequate ones. We are, however, going to security, as the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff has put forward. Let's start with our office. Safe is a country when you, Prime Minister, your ministers, government officials, MPs, all of us, are on the streets without security. When everyone wants guards and new guards and new guards, this means that you - to say it - and we may feel safe, but the country and the ordinary citizen live in a prolonged insecurity. I say it because there are images that are very confused in Athens. And here in the Constitution. You took the railings out of the House, the fronts, the Evzones, and double the guard in the Herod of Attica at the same time. The cubes from two have become four more hours of the day man does not spend many hours of the day from the Herod of Attica. And half the hours the National Garden is closed. In the years of the other memoranda, in the years of the memorial tombs of others - both of them can be said - you have built on insecurity and fear. It was your political weapons. You were talking about a suicide epidemic, you were insecurityally feeding insecurity, and you were creating conditions of collective mourning. And now you continue on the other side to turn your eyes away from reality and present them all ideally. You will allow me, Mr Tsipras, to remind you of what you were saying three years ago. You said the policeman with a gun is a public danger on the street. That was your phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u93	The protests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u94	I'll say it. You called for the disarmament of police forces when they contacted the citizen during the mobilisation of trade unions and political events. You called for the abolition of MATs and the ban on chemical use in demonstrations. I won't say what we see, because we see it every day. I say that these have been your signature not since the very old years, when you were a student, and we were all saying some excesses in the fifteen Members at that time. You've been saying that as Chief of Officer Opposition. I think there is a division in your behaviour in general, Mr. Tsipras. On the one hand, thank the porters and applaud - and well they do - SYRIZA Members in your report to the port and police. But you continue to fly mud at the same time to the porters and the police. You spoke once again about Pharmacoonisi. What do you know about Pharmacones? Have you ever been? Have you spoken to the locusts? Have you spoken to the protagonists of those days? You are going back to a scenario that the current Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Dritsa, had said. He had said the porters were persecuting women and children on purpose. The SYRIZA MPs then signed the complaint that the porters above the ship were kicking the children and throwing them at sea. They signed SYRIZA MPs! Do you accept all this and keep reintroducing the Pharmaconese script? If you accept it, it's a very great irresponsible one. And you can also ask the port leadership today if all this has happened in Pharmaconisi. I'm not telling you about acquittal decisions. Ask the people in Pharmacy, the neighboring islands, the people who treated those days survivors. So there's a division. You're talking about solidarity...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u95	Pharmaceuticals have no residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u96	Pharmaconissi has army guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u97	Guard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u98	And next door there are inhabited islands, the Leipzig...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u99	All right, because you said, the people in Pharmacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u100	No, I said the neighboring islands that came that night and the ports and the people that were rescued. So I say that you are talking about solidarity with refugees and immigrants. Sure. Who would disagree in Europe? But you leave the camps at the mercy of the mafia, the Syrian mafia, the Afghan mafia, because the world is not angelically made. So ask the porters to tell you what they see in the port of Piraeus. What do the fantasies see in Shhsto? Black jeep, scenes that don't always host refugees, but offer other kinds of services. You have on many occasions left the small communities of refugees and migrants to govern the small local, national mafias and some of the closest solidaritys, against the action of the serious NGOs, who have on many occasions been forced to leave - and they have said so publicly - to leave the camps because they have not been able to make it through chaos. And you turned the local populations - in many cases - from allies and fighters who offer assistance to immigrants and refugees to groups of desperate people. From ambassadors of kindness who were, you turned them into insecure familymen. I would say that it is not serious to measure the solidarity shown by foreign leaders, foreign artists in government laurels. The solidarity of all these people is solidarity to the islands, solidarity to the Greeks. And they in no way reward the chaos, chaos that admitted to a crisis of sincerity - yesterday or yesterday I think - Mr Muzalas here in Parliament. I was in Edward on Monday morning. I sat till afternoon. I saw it all. And I won't say any details, because I don't think we should keep shooting our country. But there is a dramatic situation in Idomeni. And I don't only mean that for thirty-two days the line is closed. I mean, at all levels the state is missing. There is the municipality trying to settle the issue of water supply, the garbage without any financial aid. It will not, however, be able to continue to do so, because it is a huge amount. There are some NGOs trying. There are some policemen who parade passages, but the whole system is uninhabited. You spoke, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about a small miracle in the hospitality of refugees and immigrants. There is a small miracle in relation to the behaviour of the Greeks. But in relation to your Government, this appears to be an expensive miracle. You will allow me to make a reference to a new case that we discovered about Litochoro. We've told you about Chios and how much the hot spot cost. You gave no answer. It is a hot spot built by soldiers, municipality and Greek Petroleum, for which 1.5m euros was paid to contractors. We've got no answer from the government. And we go to another case that we make public, and there are all the documents on the Minutes here. So, in Litochoro, look out! - The Greek Army closes - you, don't you, Minister? - a place, a camping with the desecrated activities, without any control, no competition, for a daily hospitality of refugees - only hospitality, no food - 9,5 euros a night. And we find on the price list that this camping has posted that hospitality in this camp - if you didn't go with the government and go on your own - it's 4 euros this night. Can you make the multiplications? Because we get hundreds of thousands of euros a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u101	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u102	You will answer, Minister. So we are asking for an answer, and that is why I finally told you - and for what we have revealed about hot spots. I think that the government is continuing to frustrate the former bad governments. And what does that mean? Opacity, slut and act without a plan! And you have added to all of these - which are samples of the Greek political scene and we should deal with them together - a left populism - at least in words - a little variation suit, a lot of arrogant arrogance. And the result for Greek citizens is a protracted insecurity at a personal and national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the President of the Central Group, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of the "FOTHERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty students from the Netherlands. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u105	Wait a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, it bears my signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, I won't deny you the reason. Let Mr. Leventis speak and then you'll have the floor. There may also be something else to add in the course. The President of the Centro Parliamentary Group has the floor. Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not understood the spirit of Mr Mitsotakis' question on security. I thought that in the spirit of this question, there was also the famous intercept, because the intercept of foreign delegations, I did not get over it, I consider it to be a very serious matter. We are, of course, discussing whether the military needs to be used, whether a super-ministerate should be made, whether there is security for the citizens, whether the citizens of the islands, who are experiencing the problem more, feel safe and more. Talking about security at such a time is a little funny, because there is a generalised insecurity among the citizens. So, who citizen is safe? Where I return, they say 'what about insurance, what about taxation, what about one another?' The citizens are appalled and - the word would not be bad - panicky. I have heard Mr. Kammenos say that the Army will not be involved, because, in order for the Army to be involved, a parliamentary leave is required. This is about other issues. If there is an earthquake, to send a signal to help decapitate people, I don't think there is a need for a parliament's permission. It is self-evident that our soldiers should be involved in saving lives. So what did Mr. Kammenos say? Licences need to be given if the mission is specific and if it is likely to be seen as a catalyst of democratic freedoms. When it comes to the immediate presence of soldiers to save lives, for God's sake, if Parliament must first meet, give permission to that matter! So what Mr Kammenos said is an exaggeration. And I agree that the Army is not involved, but when de facto the rest of the state fails to give solutions, it does not have the infrastructure, the Army is automatically involved, in order to safeguard social peace above all. So on the security issues that Mr Mitsotakis asked about, I do not know whether he has received an answer from today's debate. We are used to this House having fruitless and meaningless conversations. We haven't heard serious things in here while I'm here. If now Mr. Mitsotakis feels safer after today's debate, I don't know. You will allow me to use the time of my speech today on a few more serious issues. Mr Drasakis said yesterday that he does not know whether the government can politically raise the burden of an agreement, if it contains other things. The agreement made in July was an agreement based on some calculations. If black holes grow, will the government resign? Can't he raise more weights? I don't get it. The burden a government raises is the burden that the country has. The July agreement signed by Mr Tsipras, Mr Tsakalotos and all of them, refers to assessments at that time. If the assessments and black holes are differentiated, is Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Drasakis, Mr Tsipras unable to cope? Will they come here to declare weakness? I don't understand that. I guess it was an advance, an announcement about a resignation coming? A government's saying that it cannot raise the burden is unthinkable. The House and the government are raising whatever weight the country has. We do not say 'up to three pounds I stand, three pounds and twenty grams I resign'. That's right. What if another "black hole" arises? Because here it has been consolidated and 20% that pays no taxes, so on whatever budgets we need to know that we will have a permanent failure and call on the rest of it to pay, to pay the debts of those who do not pay. We'll have a permanent failure, then. Will the various 'Drassakis' resign in the meantime? What's going to happen? Will they train for bigger, extra weights? What's here? Is weightlift here? Here is supposed to be a serious task, if it is a serious task, because both may be questioned, and the seriousness of the work and the work itself. I do not understand these statements. Some people said that he went and threatened Olad, Mr. Tsipras, that he would resign. Of course Mr. Tsipras did. What kind of a threat is that? Are we threatening the Frenchman to resign here in Greece? So, we went to France to threaten Holland that we in Greece will have a fall in government? What's that? Is that an independent policy? And I'm glad, Mr. Tsipras, that you're present, because you're used to us being absent in the speeches at Chiefs' level, to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u109	To you never.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u110	In other words, if I have spoken in this Chamber ten times, nine were absent, or maybe eight. I think I'm counting right. On the trips you went to, what did you say to Olad? Did you tell him to help? The position of foreigners is given. They're asking for reforms. They're not asking for anything else. And Greeks, either of New Democracy or SYRIZA, laugh. What reforms have you made, Mr. Tsipras, in the sixteen months of your administration? Tell me a reform that you've even started to do. The unreliability of Greece abroad is due to the fact that when it comes to taking the dose, we pass a bill through the House to shut mouths and then do not apply any reform. And where I speak with strangers, they don't ask for taxes or anything. Reforms are demanding. If we were right, timely and persuasive in reform, there would be no need for a single tax. He wouldn't need anything. You know that? You don't know that. Taxes and measures, for which you find Europeans, most of SYRIZA when you are in the channels, are imposed because you do not make any reform at all. It is the image of the unbelieving state that when he wants to take the dose he signs it all and then he leaves it in the dusty times of the House. Because many of the bills haven't even found the way of implementation. It is therefore like making fun of foreigners that we are spending bills in Parliament and the Greeks. This is how Euroscepticism is increased in Greece, of course, and some are responsible for it. It is the New Democracy, which was for two years an antimony, after a memorial and now approximately antimony, a supposedly large and serious party that had such a curve upwards, downwards and upwards of convincing and seriousness, and a SYRIZA who for six years smuggled everyone and everything and on one night of July signed it all. And now the ministers have a problem. They are sad when they implement what you signed, Mr. Tsipras. They can't, because their DNA is left! How are they gonna sell the one? How will they privatize the other? So I think there are other problems here. It's deeper. It's whether we're gonna decide to make reforms and get serious or make smart guys, and then we're gonna go bankrupt and make a fool of ourselves. For the six-year-old sacrifices of the Greek people will go away. I have said that one of the reforms that I consider essential is the fact that we in the public, the municipalities and the CECO are slow-paid. Because I have information from mayors, from state-owned managers and from others that there is a large proportion of slow-wages in the state. No attempt has come to know them. We've found those who have fake degrees and I wish we'd all found them. I think a lot of people will be hiding. We have a number of other things 'nuclear technicians' searched, which create an impression in the world, but not on the substance. They must be hiding in the body of civil servants too many slow-wages we haven't tried to find. And I have a study available to Mr Tsipras, if he really is willing to go ahead with it, because I have sent him the '9 points' and from nine he has not implemented any of them. Some ministers came out and said they agreed to four or five points. But the clearance doesn't have any percentages. The cleansing or you don't or you don't make it and you're making fun of it. So I have Mr. Tsipras's study of the University of London using the 360 degree method, on how you can find the unpaid, if you want to find them. If you want to cover them up, continue the tactic with which you have already gone. So on this issue, we have no progress in finding wages. In his question, the three pensions should become one, to merge, to be told again - "The AUGIA" said on Sunday, which passed us - that 3,000 euros is the pit of the above pensions. Higher pension is still maintained at EUR 3,000. But a merger has not yet been made computerized, and we have three hundred thousand major triple pensions and over one million and fifty thousand double pensions. My view is that these pensions, if we do not do so with a maximum of EUR 1,500, the insurance will be unresolved. Today, in 'ANTENNA', Mr Katrugalos said that we will calm down with the insurance that goes through until 2060. Apparently why he won't live himself! He gave this date, in 2060, that we'll calm down, which, obviously, will not be Katrugalos to punish him. So these are not serious things. Then I call about the wealthy pensions. They are eighty thousand rich with over 3,000 euros monthly income that we could cut off from pensioning to create a budget to save disabled people, save one parent families, save luxury, and eat at the metropolitans. This House lets one who has ten thousand euros a month to get all the 1,800 euros in pension, because it has paid contributions. In Australia, haven't they paid contributions? Is this the only place they've paid contributions? I propose to cut the pensions of the rich - first of all, it does not interest me, I lose votes, why do the rich vote - why do you say I do? I hate the rich? What did I tell them? I'm not against you, but you will allow me to be with the poor. As a party, as a Leventis, as a Centro Association, I am not your enemy, because without employers there can be no state, but mentally I, my family, my DNA is with the poor. But that doesn't mean I'm going after you rich people. However, the wealthy pensions could be a very serious budget for social care and for solving the problems of the world that lie within the limits of misery and poverty. Mr. Katrugalos says no. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I say to him then 'cut the pensions of the former Members of Parliament'. Why should former MPs retire? It tells me that the MPs by 2012 are retiring, but from 2012 onwards they will get from their fund. Why? By 2012, what are they? Sabbaths? Or should we not hurt sacred monsters? I don't get it. They're the ones who went bankrupt already. There are people who are retiring and getting a lawyer's pension - such as Achilles Karamanlis, who is taking from the Rural Bank - and get from elsewhere. I think Mitsotakis father gets from elsewhere as a journalist, as a lawyer. I imagine he could live if he lost the rest of the pensions, my lord, or would he have a problem with poverty? You'll answer me. I'm asking to be cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u111	Please do not personalize, Mr President. You raised the general question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u112	No, an observation in general, but I'm talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u113	Alas, you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u114	I am talking about the general ones, Mr President, but for seven months I have not seen any sensitivity from a wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u115	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u116	I'm talking about the MPs' salary going in the middle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u117	Good. He's in the middle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u118	Has anyone spoken? Where is everyone? The wings are entrepreneurial. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, the Members' pension for whom you are speaking is less than 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u120	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u121	I'll give you information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u122	There is the argument that if we cut the MP's wages in half, then the MPs will take them from here and there. If one is built to "take it" and a hundred thousand per month to give it to him, "he'll take it". That is what my experience says and I do not accept such arguments as an answer. While people eat at metropolitans and open garbage cans, this Chamber first had to make sacrifices. That's how I feel, as Vassilis Leventis. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] [[Laughers in the Chamber]] You're laughing. You laugh at some, of course, laughter is useful. For security, all right. Are you insecure? We have Kammenos here, we have such a Minister who wears uniforms and scares the Turks! When the Turks saw Kammenos, the Turks said "Go, go, go, do not go with planes here, they'll take us down". Please, ladies and gentlemen. Please, a little temper. Not even in pensions, Mr. Katrugalos did anything. Rich pensions are maintained, former Members' pensions are maintained. Three pensions, two, are also maintained. Today Mr Papadakis told Antenna that they have paid contributions. They've paid contributions. What can we do, ladies and gentlemen? The country didn't go bankrupt? If there was a place full of funds, would I also make this proposal? I wouldn't. But can this Chamber be unconscious in the face of a Greek who has one and a half million unemployed, who has poor people? So, can I not make this proposal? I can't. I'm sorry, but I can't. Mr Tsipras will bring in, in fact, haste, tax and insurance. We haven't been informed. We're being informed by the reporters. I asked for a meeting of Heads of State or Government under the President of the Republic, the President-in-Office of the Republic told me that he did not have the right, competence and referred me to make the request to Mr Tsipras. But my party's lawyers, who are not well-intentioned, told me that the President of the Republic had the right to convene a council of Heads of State. Because if something bad happens to the country and a Prime Minister does not want a Heads of State, will the leaders of the parties not be informed of what will happen? So, we've left a gap like this in the Constitution? As Nero burned Rome, something can happen in the country and Prime Minister "great to buy". Will the President of the Republic expect the Prime Minister? We can't have done such a thing. The lawyers, therefore, of the Central Association, expressed the view that I sent justified to the President of the Republic and said to him "you have the right to take an initiative, for good reason". Is it not a good reason to evaluate, first of all, the Members of the SYRIZA, where you are going to vote? I said I wouldn't vote anything. You who will vote, should not know what you are going to vote for and one of you should go out on television and say 'if that's not what I do not vote for', 'if it is the other one I do not vote'? I have asked for transparency, for information from the political leadership. Did I make such a big crime? So we want a prime minister to have power over him, not to talk to anyone and just to bring bills, to place the House before surprise? Is that what we want? Do we have this constitution? So you will bring the bills, Mr. Tsipras. They could vote for other wings, but the way you bring them, you'll only have the vote, supposedly, of the MPs of ANEL and SYRIZA. And will such major changes be possible in the country with a majority of fifty three seats and with parties like yours, Mr. Tsipras, who doesn't have 20% -22% with a party, the ANELs, which doesn't come into Parliament? With this measurement, can 23% raise the burden of a country, in the absence of the House, in the absence of political leaderships, Mr. Tsipras? Is that what you think you can? You think so? So, a declarant thinks it's enough to be dissatisfied at this point? Thank God Mr. Mitsotakis is gone. And you know why he left? Because he asked this question, which makes no sense. What do you want? Should the police get bored? When you of the New Democracy say that there is no state, you are treated as Golden Dawn like this. So what do you want? May the police be instructed to go to Idomen to clean 12 thousand people? Who will be responsible for any victims?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u123	For thirty-three days, the railway line is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u124	I'm not having a conversation with you. I'm not saying that to answer me. To answer after your Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u125	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u126	I am not speaking with you, not because I despise, but the Rules of Procedure do not provide for it. Unless you respect nothing! Clearly, I'm telling you. What do you want? Should the police get bored in Piraeus, go over there to do a shower? And then, according to you, there will be a state? No, gentlemen, it's not a state of violence. We are talking about a state of democracy, where the police officer will not be bored, he will be a civil protector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u127	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u128	I'm looking for a policeman like that and I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u129	Now that you've broken up the MATs, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u130	If you want sheriffs, add horses when you come to power. Have horses chase like sheriffs. I expect that, too, from you, because you're a new right. And from the new right we expect all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u131	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u132	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u133	I'll take some more time, because I won't do a dentistry, Mr. President. Let me go up to thirty minutes, because I won't do a second. Allow me, because I'm leaving for the province.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u134	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. We'll take it into account, of course. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u135	I think this Chamber has gone the wrong way. The government thinks that the notion of declared is "I dominate everything and I give no account to anyone". Instead of asking for a change of thinking, a change of attitudes and attitudes in the country they want to come. That is why I said yesterday in a speech that the New Democracy does not want elections. It delivers them with its lips, so that the party crowds can be ripped and enthusiastic, but in fact it has joined another view - from what some have confided me - in view of the collapse of the Tsipras in order to consolidate the popular prestige, and then to ask for the real elections. Understand? He wants you to collapse completely, to lose all kinds of control, and then he will actually ask for elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u136	Don't say it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u137	With the elections I believe that Tsipras threatens and uses them as paper against you, the SYRIZA MPs. Do you know what Tsipras tells you, showing with his finger? He tells you: If you don't vote insurance and tax, I'll run elections. So instead of a hundred forty you're in, you're going into the Chamber seventy. This is a much more serious threat than the request for election Mitsotakis. It is a much more serious threat, ladies and gentlemen, that in this Chamber, after elections, you will be half the people. And Mr. Kurubli's dreams, that he'll change the electoral law, etc., not to do it. Is Mr. Kourublis in the Chamber? I saw him before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u138	I always am.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u139	There you are. Excuse me. From the Central Association, you will not get a vote, Mr Kurubli, unless you do the simple analogue. Crowds that you'll reduce the bonus!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u140	I think you'll vote at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u141	We, only if we do not form a government with 50% plus one vote, which means simply proportional, will only then vote. No negotiation with us. And since we're talking about negotiating, I'd say until first, that the journalists were saying that I could vote on Mr. Tsipras, I was good. I was very good. I've been a good kid, fighting for years, and so on. And that's through statements by Ministers. And when they saw that I did not vote, because I would ask for a government of two hundred fifty seats and porns, I do not want to be anyone - and when they saw that I did not even participate in the PASOK-Potamiou processes - and I will tell you why I did not participate - then they understood that they had something to do with a hard Leventis. So, "strip the populist, tear him down in every way". The channels don't call him. A signal has been issued to everyone! And you know, it's a time when channels are scared, because there are licenses. That is why I see channels that comply for no reason and support Tsipras, for no reason, obviously fearing the licensing stage. Obviously, I feel that way! When I see channels that were right and play SYRIZA, what can I say? I shall now reply to why the Centroon Union will not participate in the PASOK-Potamiou procedures for the so-called 'Centro left'. Ladies and gentlemen, for thirty, thirty-five years Vassilis Leventis lifted the burden of a fight against bipolarism and bipartiteism. And then bipartisanism was New Democracy and PASOK. I denounced that the PASOK betrayed the simple analogue, which it had as its main article on 3 September, I denounced the rosés and thorny assignments. At least the New Democracy is morally fine. Politically, it is negative, but morally it is okay because it tells you "I am with the enhanced", "I am with a majority system", "with strong governments". The New Democracy states it. So he's got that point of view. But the left that was supposed to be about the simple analogue, where is it? Where's the Left? And he says Mr Kourublis 'and strong governments and a more proportionate system'. I mean, he puts on his arm and ice cubes and clean water, brake and gas together! Because strong governments mean strengthening, while a proportionate system means that a party does not form a powerless one-party government without 50% plus one vote. Who are you kidding, ladies and gentlemen? Who are you kidding? I now come to why I do not participate in this Central Left Consortium. I'll tell you, gentlemen of PASOK, just like Mr. Kremastino, I appreciate. For thirty years I have also found PASOK leaders, such as George Papandreou, Simitis - leaders, I am not simply speaking to Members - and I have been discussing them with simple analogy, the question of making an effort at the Centre left, they have told me that there is no Centre. The Center's dead. It's retro now the center ideology. Now there is right, conservative and socialism. So since there is not even 30 years since you were of the opinion that there is no Centre, when did you remember it? You remember now that PASOK is in danger of staying outside the House. Now he remembered the Center! For thirty years we've been a retro! We were thrown away, forgotten and represented ideology dead. That's what we were! Now we're useful. I for thirty-five years have fought against two-partyism, so against the PASOK system that has been making appointments and trying to mock us, I cannot take the rate of the Centro Association and retreat it with you, gentlemen of PASOK. I can't! I can't morally! I'd rather stay out of the House, but I can't. For thirty-five years I have fought against a corrupt system against me, and now I have to say to my fans, "Lords, let's go back to PASOK", I can't. It's a matter of moral order. For this reason, I regretted Mrs. Gennimata, when her husband told me to a central hotel to keep our seals and our funding and simply to have an election weld. I'm saying that things like seals and finances are none of my business. I don't do welding. I will raise the burden of a revolution on the clearance and change of Greece. And if I can do it and count in Greece as Vassilis Leventis, it is well! Don't I make it? I'm in my house. I'm not a professional, like many people in this Chamber. And I haven't been sad thirty-five years. I did my duty. I was talking, running in Greece with my car with my own gas. It's something I miss: A fight for ideology! That's what I miss. And I go into this room and what do I see? How much money each, how many consultants, how much, how much the other. I can't do this anymore! Andrianopoulos - he was at a conference in Intercontinental - asked me: "After you disagree with what you met, why did you make a 30-five-year-old race to enter the House?" "I," he says, "I was gone disgusting, because, exactly, I couldn't change some things." And what did I answer to him? First of all, I'm not convinced I've lost yet. I think I'll change them, because youth will strengthen me. Let them say in the polls that it takes 8% of PASOK and 3%, 3.5% or 4% of the Centro Association. On the night of the elections, PASOK may be outside, but the Centro Association will be a third party. It's my absolute conviction. Let me believe it, because I trust the young people who have and have a dream they don't give up. So I said to Andrianopoulos: "I think that time has not expired for me and I insist on any attempt I have started. You, Mr. Andrianopoulos, say you left, why couldn't you change them for several years when you were Minister, what have you changed? You have benefited, you have enjoyed the privileges of bipartisanism.’ A time, 1990-1993, was also a State Secretary. He had three, four ministries, Andrianopoulos. I'm not going against him. It's a sign of writing I'm telling you. "And now you come and ask for change from me that I insist to have the dream?" So I say in this Chamber: I do not count on any polls. My dream lasted thirty-five years and it won't end unless all thieves and liars leave politics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Secondary is counted, as you requested. Look, for the process from now on, before we get through... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be quiet. He will now speak for two, three minutes, and it is good that Mr Theodorakis is present, because he had asked him to give some clarification. Then Mr Paraskevi will be speaking about a small intervention of five minutes on a specific subject and reports that have been made. Then the two ministers, Mr. Kurublis and Mr. Toskas, will be speaking for ten minutes and will go through the cycle of seconds. Two are the spokesmen on the part of the government. The others are for special interventions on something that has been heard about their ministries. You'll understand. They have no purpose, nor did people want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u143	In this case, will you allow me, Mr President, to speak for half a minute on something that the Minister has said and which I am personally concerned about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u144	Sure. You'll talk before the denology takes place, so that it can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, Mr Theodorakis, I have to tell you that I am always impressed by the petty and much more when it comes to smuggling. I'll explain later. You know that at the moment we are making a very great effort to find shelter, food, hygiene conditions, healthcare, refugees and immigrants. You know that at this time, we are trying to evacuate Piraeus, start evacuation of Idomeni and decompress the Greek. For this reason, we work nights and we have already created forty thousand hospitality places in mainland Greece, which we try and improve. And yet, you prefer - and last night and today - the role of a presumptuous accountant. And last time I heard from another Member that you are making quick feeding contests for one month, which does not even get through the guarantee letters. We are talking about competitions, which did not need a guarantee letter. And of course, you have to choose whether people stay or don't stay on the island. So, in my opinion, we are working on the management of the refugee problem and we are asking for assistance from the whole of society and you are dealing with accounting, but at the same time also with the cheap policy of implied people. Why, what is different when this contract with this camp - which is one of the two across Greece - has a maximum cost of EUR 80,000, including VAT, so that these people and you talk about the differences of hundreds of thousands of euros? Isn't that right? I heard it well, with my ears. But the second thing I have to say is that you, too, do not prove too capable. Let me explain to you why: We rented this space on the basis of need, with two extensions for twenty-one days - that's the whole logic - and we found the way to rent. We rented the space, someone else can't get in there. Is it expensive? I say to you - to be with you - that it is expensive, because there is such a matter, not with this particular issue, and that is what I will say immediately afterwards. But don't you know that there are interests in this need which are pushing in their own interests, especially for the time you're working? You know that thing. I and you and everyone come to check both in the DGOS and in my office and in the services - and don't say about Chios, because you were given a whole file on Chios and the cost - how the little money we have is spent. But I would like to tell you something else and here's the poaching.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u146	You're short, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u147	Yes, Mr President, I'll be done in seconds. You brought us here, or you announced a price from the camp, which concerns last year's price per person. You did not include this: First, the rental of the tent, which is EUR 5 this year, while it is EUR 6 per person. Secondly, you have not included in these three and a half euros of electricity supply and other possibilities, of course, not water, Internet, etc. If you divide them, even by two, which is usual practice or by three, you get back to nine and a half euros. However, I am telling you - to be familiar with each other too - that I consider this, in the context of an offer that one could make, that it would be - and that is expensive. So that's what you're doing, Mr. Theodorakis. Unless that's what you guys haven't done. But I think you're a man who's been in camping, unless you've had too much time to go and forgot about it. I tell you, of course, that everyone chooses their role, chooses their way. We will continue to do the work we are doing, with a few conditions, but with a lot of effort, with a little - if you want - with a little help, with the help of international bodies, states, etc., but with a lot of care and a lot of cooperation with everyone. You choose yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u148	Yes, sir. Please, Mr Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u149	I'll say two words. I will not get carried away in a debate on general issues and now - indeed - talking about careless accountants - because we prove to you that the Greek public is was wasting money on "better" - I think it is an insult to the people who are listening to us, because it can really be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u150	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u151	Wait, Minister. I didn't interrupt you. Wait! Because you may now be a minister to feel like you are the four that becomes nine and a half and a hot spot to cost one and a half million, while all of it is done by the army, the municipality and the "ELELANDS PETRELAY", but we will insist that we do not consider all these five-and-a-half points and say that they are prejudicial accounting numbers. What we are telling you, then, is quite simply that you are making a contract for a week - which is not a week, you are talking for twenty days, now you will tell us that it was not twenty days, but it is two months and it goes on to say, because this is the trick, an extension - and an agreement, which is nine and a half euros at night, while the official price list gives four euros a night. It's just evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u152	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u153	I'm sorry, it's just evidence like the evidence's too big for Chios. I went to Chios to see with my eyes what you've done. It's a first-line scandal. The whole of Chios says so, the state's legal services say so, IKA says so, the municipality says so, everybody says so. Because it has all been offered by the army, it has all been offered by the municipality, it has all been offered by the "ELLENICA PETRELAY". And you gave the project somewhere, breaking the contracts. Because that's the trick, isn't it? You got a big discount so you can give the contract somewhere. You know the numbers. Don't get tired of the Delegation. But I can only tell you in writing. One contract was EUR 854,000. It was 1.5m euros a project. He's making a big discount, and he's suggesting he's doing it with 854,000 euros and he's got it. And a few days later another $500,000 was added, $423,000 to be exact, to the same company. It's an old trick. They've all done it, and you're still doing it. And instead of answering, you speak to me with ideological phrases that say nothing to the world that suffers and sees that there is a waste.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u156	You have the floor for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Theodorakis, if you can't hear numbers, I just asked you to read the 2015 price list. That's where it'll turn out you're just lying. So simple is that thing. You're only talking about the person. You don't put the scene on, you don't put the power that the price list has, because I have the price list. You guys probably talk without knowing. But you know, in some things ignorance...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u158	The tents put the camping in? Why are you lying? I got pictures. The tents put the camping in?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u159	What are you talking about? When you go to a campsite, with the campsite, are you staying? But it's obvious you don't know. It's obvious. When you go to a camp, your scene you put, Mr. Theodorakis. The people who are camping and laughing are listening to you right now. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u160	All right, let's not talk about it now in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u162	Please, the Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr Paradoxopoulos, for one intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. It has been heard for a long time in this Chamber that it was the first actions of the Ministry of Justice of this government that caused security attacks, such as those related to Mr Lambros's movements in prisons or the release of Savvas Xirou and other terrorists. Just to restore the truth, to bring in some information. Indeed, the third-type shops were abolished and since then we have had no escape from a closed store in the Greek prisons. It's been a long time in the country without any escape. Another issue is the rural prisons, which are semi-free. Secondly, no terrorist or in any case condemned for terrorist offences has been made redundant by Greek prisons - absolutely no one - either convicted of a case of terrorism, whether convicted of homicide or other acts that have retrospectively been subject to the concept of terrorism. Thirdly, with regard to Mr Lambrou, I have had the opportunity to explain in detail to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency that his role was to discuss the restoration of legitimacy. I think that there were no questions left in this debate, but to say that the preliminary examination, carried out on the basis of the complaints made by Mr Panussi, has entered the file and no complaint is burdened by Mr Lambros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Mr Kourublis, Minister for the Interior, has the floor. We will close our course of intervention with the two Ministers, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, on the subject raised and then proceed to the Heads of State or Government for the debate. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, today's debate is taking place at a difficult time, not only for Greece, but for the wider region. Greece is geostrategically at a critical point. On the one hand, destabilisation, which is being attempted by the major forces in the wider region, is, unfortunately, under way and is unpredictable when this situation can be pacified, which gives rise to refugee waves. On the other hand, this is a Europe that we believed - as we believed - of social democracy, of social justice, of solidarity, of open borders, of a Europe which, unfortunately, closes its borders, undone its identity and undermines its very existence. So in such a fluid environment, it lies the country. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I have waited today for us to find a common place, to get rid of the misery state, which has us in our political speech, to agree on the country's highest priorities and which should have been the priorities for everyone. Instead, I heard repetitive reasons. Mr. Mitsotakis reminded me of his father when he found Andrew Papandreou and matched him with terrorism. This reminds me today of the word of a new leader, who I expected to emit a vision for this country, to make a bluntness of all those who might be from here and there are frictions between us in the context of our democratic culture and to find a common place, to say the truth primarily to the Greek people, and not to hesitate to say if there is security in that country. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-eight million tourists are estimated to come to the country this year. Why do they come when you know and know that the first priority of a person who wants to make tourism in a country is the sense of security established within it? And that is not a case that only the current government has made. We do not want to have that logic. It is an effort that has been made over the years by Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou, with their policies in the wider region, the climate that they have developed, but also the efforts made by the current government, precisely because it wants to inspire the wider region that it is a government that cares about peace in the region, which cares about progress and development. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible, indirectly, to leave the refugee with terrorism at the top and to identify the refugee with terrorism? The terrorists who created the events in Paris and Brussels were refugees? Well, let's come up with it. Unfortunately, they were not refugees for you. He was second and third generation citizens. And here, instead of talking about closed borders, Europe should be sitting here talking sociologically about where this phenomenon is produced, young people, instead of claiming life, worshiping death. These are issues that need to be addressed in Europe. And it is important that very important services within Europe, but also important persons serving these services, have expressed the view that the problem of terrorism is not produced by the refugee. Instead, they are looking for ways - and that is good - so that we can unify at least our activities on these issues and build together a front against fear. Because in the political positions I have heard today, all we maintain is fear. And what the terrorists wanted was, ladies and gentlemen, to a large extent, to make Europe's citizens fear, walk and fear their shade. That's what they wanted to achieve. And that is what we are trying to move here, when we know that with the efforts and the previous ones - I do not want to be petty - and today's, we all fight and fight for the highest citizen's right to feel safe in his country. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is facing great problems, the issue of insecurity produced by the policies of austerity that have imposed on us all these years and which the current government has never accepted. Under this regime, we are going to this process that you know, but we have never believed in these policies. You thought these policies were policies that could make the country out of the crisis. That's where they didn't get her. I would therefore like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, for a debate to be held at a level of calm, calm and sobering. We are at a time, which is unfortunately what Thomas Hobbs said three hundred years ago, namely, "war against everyone". That is what is happening today in the wider region. That is what we need to study and deal with, so that we can really create conditions and conditions, limit the effects of civil insecurity and not call for ministries, which really remind other times. Is that the point? Is the lack of such a ministry or the policies that are being pursued and inspire this feeling in society, when you say that there is no state in Idomeni? Ladies and gentlemen, a million people have spent last year. Is it not in the praise of Greece - and not of the government, I tell you, of Greece - and of the Greek people that it has not opened a nose? These twelve thousand people live there and there was no problem at all. Twelve thousand people, ladies and gentlemen. Isn't it unfair to say that there's no state in the presence of the police there? Didn't all these people, unaccompanied children, receive medical care from public services? And you come here saying insane verbs just to make cheap politics? Is that how you defend the country? Is this the patriotism that should hold us all right now and give us the power to make this personal and party overrun, to find common places, at least on these critical issues, which give the country a special mention? The religious leadership of Christianity came yesterday and said something very important, which is a weapon for Greece. He said that "we here, although we are another religion, care and care for people who have another religion". And that's civilization. This is the culture that Europe should defend and has not defended. The Greek people defended him, and the government and the parties of opposition defended him, because we must recognise that we are all showing the same humanism. There's no one more sensitive than the other. But finally, let us find the contact points, at least on these issues, which are a reserve for the Greek people. What the Greek people have done and done is a reserve for the future, for all today's rulers and for tomorrow's. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, let us move forward a little, let us take a step, let us leave issues, which really create a melancholy between us, and let us prove to the Greek society that we are procured and not persecuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. The Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Toskas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a period of rapid and unforeseen developments and reclassification, both at national and European level. In recent years, its hate and intolerance rhetoric has found ground and far-right fascist elements are investing in the supposed security deficit. Fortunately, in our country, these elements are confronted with humanity and solidarity, which is shown by the vast majority of our people. The sense of security has been established, both in the consciousness of the Greek society and in the consciousness of the visitors of our country. Greece is a safe country. The public good is guaranteed, despite the adverse circumstances and despite the desperate attempts to cultivate a climate. It has been achieved on many points, steps have been taken, security has been established and I think that, despite any controversy, differentiations, which exist in this area, this has been recognised by the Greek people. But let us talk a little about our policies and New Democracy's policy. I waited, to be honest, for a serious debate to take place today on the ideological positions on safety issues, which exist and exist on the international side. But unfortunately, I see a perception that wants the danger of being everywhere. So, since the danger exists everywhere, then we are declaring a total war, then all the means, defence and security - this was said by the President of the New Democracy - must be activated to deal with these threats. Do you know how careful they are outside the international organisations and even in the militarised international organisations such as NATO or the least militant, such as the European Union, are, on these terms? The terms mentioned here, such as 'asymmetric threats', such as 'a combination of security and defence', such as 'police state', 'a police state', such as a combination of terrorism and refugee, are in some way analogous if they are used in a combination, in an international environment. Terrorism and refugee are almost banned from combining them at European Union level. It has been accepted by all countries and by all the relevant ministers that these two issues should not be linked and are not linked. Each refugee is not a terrorist and terrorism is not a refugee. There have been extensive discussions at European Union level, where I have been here, where it has been accepted that the lack of integration of these people and the ghettoisation has caused problems both in Belgium and France, and not in other words, which you have insinuated. So, what do we see here? We see an influence on the ideological position of the New Democracy from old-fashioned perceptions, from safety concepts that existed in the 1950s, 1960s. That's when they did. But either old-fashioned perceptions have been made by your consultants or you do not want to change politics and you like the safety concepts of that time, the 1950s and the 1960s, i.e. suppression, demonstration of power, polarizing, creating social unrest, power over the citizen and, of course, ineffectiveness. Do you want to talk on the basis of political realism? Let's leave humanism. Let's leave all the noble feelings aside. In Igoumenitsa, how did you manage the matter? Do you want me to take out the evidence for seven years, which was there from four to six thousand immigrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u168	Two thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u169	...and Patras around the two and a half thousand who were dealing with? The police, they were beaten, the impression was that the police were doing something, they were leaving, and after an hour and a half the same. The same was true in other areas of large towns. Old tools for new problems don't pay off. Ultimately, being the backward perception of the most conservative, the most reactionary - if you like - throughout Europe does not give solutions. Put down the new concepts, which exist at the level of advanced countries, at European Union level and come and talk. From there on, I shall refer to a number of issues relating to refugee. There was also the perception in some of you that no hot spots need, no need for the camps, let people go to public places, to Victoria Square, to Mars Field or elsewhere. This confusion and this situation have been making it easier for us to create a conservative climate? Now go and drink coffee in Viktoria Square and you will see that the climate is too good, so is in the Mars Field. We don't look good, we haven't solved the problems. But we try and try in a way. We don't leave things to chance, type Igoumenitsa - Patras, we don't leave the squares uncontrollable and uncontrollable, and we don't move in the logic of the 1950s and 60s. We have had unprecedented problems and bureaucratic problems. We faced situations where we had to build in time a record of camps. And that's what we did. There is also Mr Theodorakis' criticism. I'm waiting now for the hot spot folder. Is he here? Okay. The Secretary-General tells me that the dossier has come, is at the disposal of the Bureau of Parliament and, of course, each party, even though it was not requested, even though Mr Theodorakis said it would be requested. The same with regard to the hot spot, which Mr. Vits gave. Now, we are moving in conditions of transparency. You know what we found? I don't want to go into details, because away from me the concept of confrontation of what one minister did and what the other minister did. I accept that every minister gives all his powers, offers work from there on, there is criticism of the negative, but there cannot be micropsy. Otherwise, this micropsy can also be seen as a lack of patriotic perception of difficult and patriotic conditions. To talk about some issues, which are not of the day, but, anyway, I will speak because we have been provoked. Do you know that there were hidden files - files from bad times - in the Ministry of Civil Protection, which I found very difficult to find and for which they had been extended until 2027 to remain closed? Do you know who those files were about? Two thousand are about two hundred. Mr. Dendias knows, too. From Eleftherios Venizelos to Charilao Florakis. This information will be provided and you will be informed. What concerns me, however, is that if we do not tackle these unprecedented situations with political realism, which we are seeing before us, then we will have problems, such as radicalisation of marginalised groups and preservativeism of other citizens, which will lead to extreme perceptions. Some people need to understand that, who are asking for extreme measures, similar to those of purpose, because, if you like, in discussions with the European Union...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u170	Minister, you can incorporate your dentext, if you like, so that you can speak comfortably.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm just choosing the main issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u172	Yeah, take your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u173	The main issue that is being discussed at European Union level is to avoid radicalisation at the moment, not to create conditions of such a kind of risk for the future, which we do not even want to imagine. But on the individual points, Mr President, I am in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u174	You can now, if you want, incorporate the denology, that is to say continue. That is why I said 'comfortfully' to close after the seconds of the political leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u175	With regard to the statistics that have been differentiated, why did I tell you that I have not come here to enjoy situations: Is there a difference in common crime right now in major cities? What happened during 2015 in Greece? We see, then, a reduction in the major crime of robbery: in banks, in supermarkets, etc. We see qualitative differences, which have excite crime to easy targets or low risk. We also see a reduction in violations of special crimes, such as sexual exploitation cases, homicides, smuggling, etc. We set targets and priorities, because no police can control any form of crime and no system can protect against everything. Drugs, which pose a risk to our school children, the gambling problem with the revenues of the state, are one of the priorities that we have been putting to the Ministry since the first moment and have already begun and there are fruits of this effort. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u176	You stressed him, Mr President. Let him have a proper second thought, as a human!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u177	Fortunately, we have you, Mr. Kikilia, and you relax them all! Mr. Toska, Mr. Kikilias expresses his solidarity. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u178	I'm nervous by the President, and you have made me nervous. I wish there was such solidarity everywhere and we have spoken excellently with Mr Kikilia. It's no harm talking to the former ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u179	See what we're learning?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u180	Was the meeting hidden, Mr. Kikilia? Oh, no! For us, for the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, our aim is to continuously improve the level of civil protection, improve their quality of service, maintain the cohesion of society - and in difficult times it is very important to maintain the cohesion of society - and ensure the environment of normality and fairness. There are problems, and what you mentioned in Idomeni, and what you mentioned in Piraeus and the small crime, which exists in the areas where there are too many refugees assembled. But if anyone thinks we have or has the miraclemaker's stick and can solve matters very quickly, he can come and tell me. We are making huge efforts. The police are now practically stretched across the various geographical areas, from Kastelorizo to Idomeni. Undoubtedly, people offer. We're trying to stabilise the situation, solve the refugee problem. At the moment you see it starts to decompress and the situation goes off in these areas. Maybe that's why you rushed to bring this to a discussion. Then we know that in this effort some attempts have gone back, related to the hunting of the public, the small crime. But at the moment our efforts are coming back and you will see the results in the centers of major cities. Eventually, we managed that Greek policeman wasn't against the civilian. He has realised that he is a worker, that he is next to the citizen and that he is interested in being next to the citizen and working together. This is the new concept, which we have sought and I can say - within the short time available to the Ministry - that we have achieved certain things. It seems that because the major cities are safe and I would dare say much more than before. All the time, there's an improvement. There are problem areas. There are problems. However, whoever claims to be worse than before, that there is no political direction and that there is no attempt by the police, I think that he will be petty or not contribute to the patriotic effort we have said. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Toskas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned file, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and seven teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Igoumenitsa and from the Syvota Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before starting the cycle of any political leaders who have asked for this, the reason Mr. Dendias has asked for a small intervention because there were reports. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, you will allow me to read from the Minutes what you said earlier. In your prototype you said: "...it would be the policy of relocations to the sea with results like those of the tragedy in Pharmaconissi on Mr. Dendias." First of all, thank you. I'm flattered because you're dealing with me. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, despite the fact that Pharmaconesi is under judicial investigation, you know, I imagine, that it is the Port House. And I imagine you know that the Port Corps did not come under the Ministry of Public Order where I was a Minister at the time. So I would ask you - I'm sure you will - in your dentistry to correct the report to me. And I would ask, if possible, for your attention in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office has the floor. Mr President, you have 15 minutes. If you want, because you have the right to tritology then you can incorporate it either in a single speech now or at the end for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u184	You are in a hurry, Mr President, to close the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with Mr Tindemans' speech. Mr Dendias was indeed at that time a Minister for Civil Protection, not a security, as Mr Mitsotakis told us. Civilian protection. And Mr Varvitsiotis was, if I'm not mistaken, the Minister responsible for the Port House. However, Mr Dendas, perhaps because of the fact that you have often referred to the doctrine of your day, defending this doctrine, at the very edge of my speech, I have referred to you. And I imagine that your corrective intervention, which I accept, has nothing to do with denying that you had such a dogma, which is completely different from the day SYRIZA and ANEL took over the country's rule. Thank you for reminding me, because you will also give me the opportunity to reply to Mr Theodorakis, who has - let me say this - the smuggling: I have never succeeded against the men and women of the Port Authority. After all, he has also made a report - perhaps that's why he knows - he has broadcasted to the 'Protagonists' because these people are the leading players. But it has a very important meaning sometimes that the same people - because now they are the same people who save lives - when they operate under different commands and under different dogmas, can have the exact opposite results. I never said that men or women of the Greek Coast Guard led people to drowning or tragedy. I said, however, that the logic of the re-progressions, that is to say, dragging a rotten boat from Greek territorial waters to other waters instead of taking them apart, is a politically irresponsible one, because it can lead to accidents such as the loss of human lives at that time. And then - I remind you - we have had dozens, perhaps every day, of people who found themselves on a daily basis - little incidents - and from the start of this huge wave of refugee flows - in the last year - not ten times, but we had sixty, seventy, eighty boats to come to Greek territorial waters loaded with dozens of refugees. So imagine what would happen if this doctrine and that policy followed by the previous government were followed by our own government in the face of the refugee crisis. But I come to the main stream of my speech. I hope I've satisfied Mr. Dendia with my correction. Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to note something: you spoke of our embarrassment in this debate. But, as my colleagues have been counting, for twelve and a half minutes of the time you have tried to answer, to apologize, that is, why you asked for a top-level debate to be held today in the House, at the Heads of State or Government level, on the agenda for a debate on security, to reach something I would like to welcome. You have come to the conclusion that the country is indeed not facing a security issue. You said the country was, is and will be safe. I welcome this phrase and I do not hide my satisfaction that you have finally acknowledged that the country is and will remain safe. And I believe that this must be the message that will come out of today's meeting. The message is that Greece, despite being in a wider destabilised region, is a secure and hospitable country that defends values. And that is the message that the last citizen of Europe and the world thinks he should come to Greece this year to make his holidays. That's the message we need to emit. And, of course, I am afraid - you may understand it slowly - that your importance for this debate is not inconsistent with the message that the country so much needs. However, throughout the rest of your speech you verified and deserved almost everything I said in my prototype about the real motives of your request. I said that you asked for this debate to "fish" in the blurred waters of the far right, to exploit the fearful reflexes of a part of society and possibly try to rally the extreme right wing of your party. Your speech was, indeed, a monument of danger, destruction and dispersal of fear. But it was also a clear ideological manifesto. You said security was a condition for freedom. You said that the western way of life was threatened, perhaps by buying the utensils of war civilizations, traders of fear, defenders of the police state. So let me tell you that freedom and security are dialectically linked. Nobody has priority over the other. In our view, one presupposes the other. Because freedom without security leads to a jungle society and security without freedom leads to a society that is complete. Perhaps these are fine letters for your opinions and for your party. However, I would like to remind you that the Left has, among other things, this objective, as a modern philosopher has said: to save liberalism from liberals. So at the time, ladies and gentlemen, when the country becomes the focus of solidarity and humanity, the Chief of Officerial Opposition told us that in Greece we were baptized "humanism" of lawlessness. I imagine that the visit and meeting of the three leaders of Christianity in our country, Lesvos, last Saturday, did not take place, in your view, in order to support lawlessness! And I'm really sorry about your position. You reiterated the well-known notion, which has often expressed in all his interviews - they are many - the Vice-President of your party, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis many times, that not all of this is responsible for the rule of the right and its alteration to power with the PASOK, but that all these years you have ruled but under the ideological hegemony of the Left and that it was assumed that this ideological hegemony is responsible for the crisis. You know, it's nice to say that, but I think the Greek people know very well who is responsible for the crisis. He knows who is responsible for the forty years of waste, the fragmentation of public money, interactive, corruption and lawlessness. I'll say it, since you like the word so much. But not your lawlessness. The violation that was lasting and which was made in a legal way and in front of the eyes of the state. You played again today the millennial repertoire for SYRIZA's so-called relations with terrorism and took a step further. You spoke about terrorism and violence in Greece, which has a clear political and ideological mark, left-hand. I'm sorry about this attitude. And I am sorry for this attitude, because I believe that we belong to a generation that should overcome the divisive practices of the past. And you come here today to say that terrorism and violence have a left hand. I am not used to it - precisely because I believe in overcoming these prejudices - to defend the history of the Left or to separate the left and right. But I am obliged after what you said, to say a few things from this step. The left, Mr Mitsotakis - like the left and the left - has a history here. He's got a story of racing, a story of persecution, he's been a victim of violence. Left and left were persecuted and not persecuted. They were victims of violence that organized a para-state many times, the para-state of the national guardians. So the Left does not belong to the immorals of violence. The left and not only the left but also many right-wing democrats, patriots, gave their lives in this country for values: freedom, justice and democracy. The history, tradition and values of the Left have nothing to do with it - and I do not always allow you to repeat it again - with the so-called anti-powered ones who, at the end, have the most authority. Because the concept of the right of choice to remove human life, that is to say to exercise the supreme violence against the most important value, which is human life, in the name of a revolutionary affair, is a powerful logic. This concept, Mr Mitsotakis, is shared by so-called anti-powered persons with all kinds of terrorism. It is, you know, splitting to speak of the ideology left of terrorism and to identify the Left, who gave birth to the National Resistance, the Lambrakises, the movement of "1-1-4", the struggles for the defence of democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He gave and gives, Mr Mitsotakis, struggles of mass and peaceful for freedom, democracy and justice, struggles with no hoods - always! - without axes and no barbecues. Of course, the fans of the varopoula and of the chessies, the left has them across the street. But sometimes your party, unfortunately, doesn't have to deal with them. You also wondered, Mr Mitsotakis, in which European country citizens have the right to protest on the streets of the capital, to close streets. And you said this was never heard of. I urge you to see what happened last week in London, in the great demonstration against austerity. I invite you to see what happened in Paris last month, in the great demonstrations by the farmers. What happened here was nothing. I really don't understand what you're suggesting. Prohibition the protests? In every democratic country citizens, whether we agree or disagree with their views, have the right to protest. And I remind you that the Greek Constitution protects the right of "collected". What exactly are you asking for? Do we have to abolish it? Is this also in your proposal for a constitutional review? Today, ladies and gentlemen, the doctrine of the Greek Police, the doctrine of mildness and discretion, with clear red lines, is far more effective in maintaining the security of citizens than in the dogma of displaying raw power and unconditional repression. I would like to say to you that the problems you have referred to and which obviously concern us do not in any case concern the last year of governance. On the contrary, in the last year of governance, if you see the evidence that the Minister has - it is at your disposal - that all these attacks, the tents of violence and iniquity that you have referred to and which of course concern us have been considerably reduced. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Prime Minister is ringing.]] Also, the centre of the city is an issue that I know from the time I was with Mr. Kaklamanis as Mayor at the Athens Municipal Council. It was a central issue. However, lawlessness and infractionality in the city's center were never dealt with the "bulk", which was picking up some poor immigrants from Omonia, but for a few hours, they took them down a little further, the cameras were coming, they were taking three pictures and then they were coming back. It is a question of being able to face up to the causes of this phenomenon. In any case, I would like to tell you that we have seen - it is obvious - an unprecedented refugee wave. But if you go for a walk in the Mars Field today, you won't see a single immigrant and refugee. Go to Victoria Square. It's open. And the Constitution Square, too. I would remind you that at the time of the suppression and doctrine of the "sweep", your own time, despite the doctrine of repression and the "sweep", there was no that. To tell you, too, that you spoke of Entrepreneur. You spoke of Asylum over and over and over, where there, of course, the Greek Government is making superhuman efforts to control an extremely difficult situation. And you all know why we haven't chosen to set up an organized reception and hospitality centre there. Because in consultation with both our partners and with the High Commissioner, if we were to build an organised centre there, it would be a attraction, it would be as if we were to tell all the refugees who are in the inland, 'go to the border'. However, I would like to remind you: on the days of your administration, were there or were there not Sudden - not so small - in Igoumenitsa and Patras? None of you talked about it then. Not small. Let's talk with numbers. Six and a half thousand people in Igoumenitsa, three and a half thousand people in Patras, in camps where there was no natural state, only police operations, where there was no strong presence of non-governmental organisations, CEDEFOP, media care, then state care and state care. It is hypocritical, therefore, that today we face an unprecedented flow of refugees, that you have made the flag of Idounis, when you have nowadays had two Igoumenits in Patras and Igoumenitsa. And no one was opening this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close - I will only need five minutes, Mr President - in a few words about the economy and the current developments. To conclude today's debate - perhaps tritology is also given to me - which I hope is a joint message - that Greece is and will remain a safe country. I'll say a few words about the economy. I would recommend, gentlemen, that you do not put your money all on the chance of government failure, because the assessment will be closed. I understand, of course, why some are being forced to do this. You started with your first interview as Chief of Officership by saying, "I'm not in a hurry." And now I see you in a hurry and agomaha. Why? Some people are pushing you. They, of course, have reasons. They've got debts, they probably have persecution, they want to keep media without paying taxes, some people see their own partners on various lists. So they have reason to want, indifferent to the country's course, this government to leave, and yesterday if possible. But you're wrong. You're wrong if you're playing in a roll of everything, for the very simple reason that you'll be disproved. And then what are you going to do? You'll put your money in the second review. What if you're disobeyed there too? Do you know that story about the false shepherd? In the end, the wolf won't believe you either. You made a myth, the myth of destruction, from SYRIZA's negotiation. I imagine you will answer me tomorrow after EUROSTAT's data on this. You didn't answer before. I expect the evidence to come out and answer the SYRIZA disaster. I would like to ask you this: the country is at a critical turning point. There's no doubt about it. It's the most complex and critical negotiation. Why? Because it's a negotiation not between two different views and interests, between three. That's not new. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u185	It's not new.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u186	But why is it critical now? Because for the first time these differences are so intense, and they concern both the assessment of the future and the assessment of the data, for the 2015 report, whether or not the debt should be deleted. And you know how crucial this is for the country. But, ladies and gentlemen, when I hear you criticise - is the criticism acceptable - will you tell us what position you are taking? I read just now - my colleagues gave me an interview with the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker - very interesting interview - which basically supported Greece's positions. He said: “I fully understand the positions of the Greek Government. We, as the Commission, believe that all our information is correct...' - it obviously refers to what will be published tomorrow, the European Agency, EUROSTAT - 'and there is no need for emergency measures'. That's what Mr. Juncker said. And he said: 'It is not our intention to satisfy at all costs the International Monetary Fund'. You know, if I said this, it is certain that the vast majority of the media would talk about unilateral actions and 'Baroufakis negotiation'. Juncker said it. And one thing I ask you: Do you agree or disagree? Very simply, do you agree or disagree with these positions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u187	Are you going to take or don't you take measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u188	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr Tragakis, I appreciate you very much, so I will answer you. At some point this action story needs to come to its real levels. Mr. Tragaki, you were a MP in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014. Do you know how many steps you've voted on all these years? Do you know how many meters? I'll tell you what. You voted EUR 62,92 billion, Mr Tragakis. And do you know how much the country's Gross Domestic Product has been reduced? It's down 25%. Indeed, in the years of our government, 0.3% has been reduced. Not 25%, though! We after a negotiation - and we had a people's mandate to go to negotiation - did not achieve our goal and brought in a mild adjustment. Not 63 billion, but 5.4 billion. And what did we do next? We went to the Greek people, Mr. Tragakis! We did not hide it under the table, as all governments did before and with "the money is" and with the Zappeia, with which you fooled the Greek people and did not invite him to ratify your policy. That's our difference, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because you were also in an interview yesterday and you were obviously inciting - I imagine you were inciting, and if I am wrong, to deny it, because that is how I understood it - by saying that soon the SYRIZA MPs will not come out of their homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u190	It was a threat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u191	I don't know if it was a threat. It could have been a finding. Okay, I'm not saying it was a threat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u192	It's an inducement!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u193	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u194	But I say one thing: The big, the advisable difference between what happened at the time - and badly it happened, there was an indignation movement - and today is the fact that you went to the polls twice saying 'they are' and then'renegotiation', you brought a difficult deal and you kept applying it as if nothing had happened. While we did tell the Greek people that we would claim to leave the committee immediately. We've said it! We have honored it until the last minute, until the last blood ring! The effort wasn't successful. But then we went to the Greek people and we didn't hide anything from him. We told him the truth and asked for a mandate to implement this agreement. But to tell you something now! Comparison: You had 25% reduction in GDP, while we 0.3%! You had 63 billion meters, and we 5.4 billion! It's courage to make comparisons! In fact, you are telling us - and I am closing with that, Mr President! - that we, because of this negotiation - 'we have destroyed the economy', I leave it, you will answer for them tomorrow - have brought unnecessarily measures which we would not have to take if you were staying in the government. That's what you're saying! I would remind you - and I will put it in the Minutes - of what the International Monetary Fund report on the fifth assessment on page 47 said: 'Indetermined measures of 2 billion. for 2015, undetermined measures of 3.7 billion for 2016, totalling 5.7 plus the deviation from the primary surplus target you had for 2014, which so far, until yesterday's EUROSTAT data is 2 billion. Let's see if she grows up tomorrow! The total is 7.7 billion! You'd take 7.7 billion. "Good morning" and you tell us that we have destroyed the country because we have brought an adjustment of 5.4 billion! [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not to calculate, of course, the fact that the negotiation resulted in a reduction in the primary surplus targets by EUR 20 billion compared to the previous ones agreed by Mr Samaras. And that would, of course, come out of the people's income. At some point in this country hypocrisy must be stopped. We're at a turning point. We will overcome this curve, despite the difficulties and the adversities. It would be a wishful task for the opposition to consider its responsibility in this critical turning point. He doesn't think of her! And not just you, Mr Mitsotakis, but the other sides of the counterpopulation. I'm listening to Mrs. Genemas. What can I say? It's like the world has a goldfish memory. He told us what PASOK has done over the past few years and what socialists are doing today in Europe. Of course I can hear Mr Theodorakis. Someone would expect to say, okay, we don't agree with SYRIZA, made mistakes in the negotiation, but now at the critical moment, we're gonna put back on it. But you're across the street! And if you want to talk about the future of the centre-left, you have to understand that the centre-left without the left does not exist. That's centre-right! The place needs progressive governance! It takes truths and daring to get out of the crisis. And we'll make it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Prime Minister. The floor is held by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I'll let you know that Mr. Michaloubas will also be seconded. There will be no more seconds. We will be in the economy of the debate, as it had been set. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u196	I was listening to you, Mr. Tsipras, and I thought of a phrase that Taleyrandus said about the Bourbons: "You have learned nothing and you have forgotten nothing." Unfortunately, because today you are still living in your own false world. And I think the last stage of someone who's lying is to believe his own lies and think that's true. Because you are truly lost in a world of fantasy, where reality is treated as a lie and lying is experienced as a reality. You are indeed trapped in a strange world. You spoke about the Left's relations with terrorism. Mr Tsipras, I want to be absolutely clear. I neither meant nor could I ever imagine saying that all the left-wings are terrorists. But all terrorists, Mr. Tsipras, all terrorists - beware of me - come from the ideological womb of the extreme left. That's a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u197	What are you talking about? You're unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u198	And be careful who you're talking to. You talk to a man who's experienced...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u199	Quiet, please! Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u200	Please be quiet. You talk to a man, Mr. Tsipras, who has experienced the pain of losing one of his own in his own family.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u201	Left-wing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u202	Of course, left-wingers! From extreme left terrorists. Let's not forget that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In no case, then, do I equate these behaviours with the struggles on the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u203	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u204	I honor the left wrestlers and honour the ideological legacy of this party. I particularly honour the political honesty of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u205	Who's extremity left?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u206	Please, Mr. President, will you impose the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u207	I'm trying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u208	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u209	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u210	What were the pigs? They weren't terrorists? The torture...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u211	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Balaura, don't interrupt. Be quiet. Mr. Femmelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u213	I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that you are so unscrupulous and completely ignore the history of post-military Greek terrorism. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry you don't recognize this reality. I didn't even talk about what happened before the junta. I am quite clear and very clear about what I said, and I do not accept any misinterpretation of what I have said. But from there on, since you referred to the left-wing fighters, I really wonder if those who fought for the Left would recognize you, Mr Tsipras, as the defender of the ideas of the Left and the most vulnerable. I'm really wondering. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You accused us of fishing in the blurred waters of the far right. I have no need to do that, Mr. Tsipras. First of all, I don't like fishing. Secondly, I am addressing the clean waters of the moderate centre and of all the thinking citizens who are today indignant with your own policy. The ideological orientation of the New Democracy is clear and cannot be called into question. We are the great liberal centre-right party of this place and for these values we will continue to fight! Far from us any hints or reports of relationships with extreme parties. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, you have complained that we are harming the image of the country because we have spoken here about the chaos of God. Are we harming us, Mr. Tsipras, who highlights the reality or the reality itself, which you tolerate, undermines the image of the country? Do not look elsewhere responsible and finally stop living in another reality. You haven't visited Idomen, Mr. Tsipras, as far as I know. If you went to Idomenis, you might have drawn different conclusions about the total absence of the state. I have heard Mr Kourublis say, at the edge of his speech, that the basic health needs of refugees and immigrants from the Greek state are met in Idomen. That's a lie, Mr. Tsipras. It's a lie. Indeed, if a child gets sick and finds himself in critical condition, he is being transferred to Kilkis Hospital, which you have left with a missionary. But the reality, Mr Tsipras, is that the state is far from Idomeni. When I went, I found a doctor, only a doctor of CEDEFOP, and those who took the chestnuts out of the fire to provide first aid and first care for refugees were non-governmental organisations and "Doctors Without Borders". The state was completely out of this process. You told us that we are linking refugees, refugee and terrorism. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Tsipras, who was the Minister who made the statement about the jihadists who he wants to send to Berlin? Did we talk about these things? Mr Kammens was the first to say that he would open up the border and put forward suspicions of terrorism in Europe! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is true that terrorist strikes in Brussels, indeed, have been made by people isolated, second generation immigrants who have not been able to integrate into European reality. But can anyone today give an explicit assurance that there is no possibility of anyone taking advantage of these flows in order to pass some extreme elements? Obviously, you can't say it for sure. And that is why - and that is what I am going to agree with Mr Kammenos - I do not see him here in the Chamber now - an absolute and biometric record for all those who enter the Greek territory, which I would remind you - you refused to do until October. When the debate on Schengen started, Mr Tsipras, it began precisely because Greece could not hold its external borders and could not ensure that all those who enter Greece are recorded. That's where we started the conversation. Your inability caused this whole debate about the country's possible exit from Schengen. And who first spoke of a closed border, about a hundred and fifty thousand refugees who will be locked in Greece? Were they our executives? Your officials have said that, Mr. Tsipras. And another thing: A few weeks ago, Minister of your Government, Mr Mousalas, in answer to a question that our MPs, of the New Democracy, have asked us about the tragic situation in Idomeni, what did he say? "The Ensemble will be emptied to the Easter beautifully and nicely." This statement was made just twenty-nine days ago. Tomorrow is completed a month from this statement. With the deadlines in general, you're not doing too well! [[Laughing - applause from the New Democracy Wing]] You didn't tell us anything about the railway line. Obviously, you consider the issue of minor importance. You still have a chance in tritology to answer. What are you going to do about this? Is it possible that the main communication artery in the country with a fixed track means is closed for thirty three days? How do you tolerate this thing, Mr. Tsipras? How do you stand it? Give us an answer, finally! Can this impression be given to the outside world that there is no state in Greece? Do you understand the financial implications? You have given great importance to the privatisation of the port of Piraeus. I congratulate you on that. Even if you're too late, you're adjusted. Even if the ministers tell you other than others in this matter. But do you not understand that in order for Piraeus to function as a transit centre, the railway line must operate and that otherwise it is a gift of nourishment? Why don't you put yourself on this matter? These are unprecedented things that are happening in the country. There has been something even more unprecedented, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to highlight at the National Representation. The Headquarters of the Association of Thessaloniki Police Officers has filed a few days ago with the Attorney General of Thessaloniki with reports all responsible for the criminal offences of the dangerous physical harm committed by omission and breach of duty. I put the relevant communication in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this has happened for your day too. Police officers file a lawsuit against the state, their chief, because they feel they are in danger because of the absence of the state in Idomen! If that's not a symptom of state collapse, I really wonder what it is. You referred again to the visit by Patriarch Constantinople, the Archbishop of Athens and the Pope, of course, to Lesvos. I will not comment on the fact that you are attempting to exploit a purely religious meeting, important but that they are coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u214	Are we gonna talk about ideological issues now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u215	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u216	Wait a minute. I know exactly what I'm saying and the Prime Minister knows exactly what I mean. I do not have to say anything more about this. Obviously, we all welcome them, but I wonder: are you really proud of these visits? Or does the visit itself confirm the huge problem that was created because of your inability? We welcome these visits, but we have not seen them before in European countries, Prime Minister. Well, let's get these things straight. You asked us what we would do in your place. I believe, indeed, Prime Minister, that if we were you, there would be no "Didn't be", there would be thousands of people in these terrible conditions. We'd have taken care of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u217	Igoumenitsa and Patras would have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u218	Don't laugh, gentlemen. Don't laugh. With you, the whole world laughs at what you say every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u219	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u220	But that's what history will judge. History cannot be answered with hypothetical questions “what would we have done, “if””. We will then see what we can do. But, ladies and gentlemen, if this debate confirms one thing, it is that the concept of SYRIZA continues to be left-wing ideas when we talk about security issues. The truth, Mr. Tsipras, is very simple. Citizens today feel unsafe. And they obviously do not feel insecure only because the government has stubbornly failed in the field of public order. Let me also make a few references to the issues of economic reality. People feel insecure because they firmly believe that the country is returning rapidly to the tragic economic uncertainty of the first half of 2015. I told you a few minutes ago that you are not doing well with deadlines. If I remember correctly, two weeks ago you told us that the evaluation would be closed at the Eurogroup on 22 April. It is April 20th today and the evaluation will obviously not be closed in two days. We'd all be quiet Easter and then - how did you say so? - the economy would 'take off'. It seems, however, that this deadline will also be postponed. The completion of the evaluation looks like a mobile festivities, as we are approaching Easter. That's the impression you're giving. Only, you know, people's patience is being exhausted. And along with the patience of the citizens, the state's cash is being exhausted. At some point you will have to come here and tell us, let us know, about the real state fund situation. What are the real tolerances of the General Accountancy today? Because one thing is certain, you pay wages and pensions, but you have declared a general attitude of payments and arrears are growing at a geometric rate. Obviously, this results in you depriving the real economy of liquidity. However, the citizens today do not know where the country is going. Fear and uncertainty prevail again, the same fairy tale, the same 'hard negotiation'. One thing has changed. Mr. Varoufakis is now Mr. Tsakalotos. I have a question for you, Prime Minister. Mr. Tsakalots is completely in line with you? Because, you know, when the Minister of Finance, the main negotiator of the country, expresses opinions which are different from the Prime Minister, there is one issue. I imagine you'll agree to that. Because I saw a few days ago that an interesting text of the '53' movement was published. As far as I know, Mr Chakalotos is, if not the leader, certainly a prominent member of this movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u221	It was a minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u222	This text, which I have read very carefully, reads '53' as follows. Watch it. It's interesting. I don't know how many of you have read it. They say, "It is clear, therefore, that if blackmails and coups continue, we prefer to be resisted heroicly by internal or external troika rather than humiliatingly by society itself."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u223	That's right. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u224	That's right. I'm not asking you alone, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Balaura, please, be quiet. We're not in a panel here. I'm serious about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u226	So I don't have to say much. SYRIZA's own colleagues have confirmed the unbearable bilingualism which, unfortunately, accentuates your own government and the majority of government. But the issues are a little more critical here. Because, as I have said to you, we are talking about the Minister of Finance and you have to give a clear answer if you reject these positions or if we are going to be back in the same work as the so-called tough negotiations, until the country reaches its limits and of course we must have to take tougher measures. Because you went here to Washington - not personally, your ministers - to open up the debt debate and turn back from Washington with the possibility that you should take over 3 billion more. If that's the case, your ministers will not make a return ticket. All right, lan, no retriere. You're welcome, Mr. Tsipras. So, if they're ever gonna go and come back with other measures, where's that account going? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to clarify some of the real facts, how much the bill is at last, to remind you: in 2015 you have already implemented measures of 1.4 billion more and 2.2 billion more, which are applied in 2016, and 5.4 billion and possibly 3 billion preventive measures. That makes us 12 billion in total, Mr Tsipras. I don't want to go back to the e-mail Hardouvelis. But you know very well that the previous negotiations did not close for a difference of one billion. So that is what we must compare so that we do not at last compare unparalleled things. I wonder, Mr Tsipras: why are you being asked to vote on preventive measures at this time? Why are creditors asking for this? You asked what our opinion is. We therefore reject this approach, of course. But why are they asking you to vote on preventive measures? The answer is simple: why don't they trust you - it's so simple, Mr. Tsipras - and you've lost confidence on your way to politics as a whole. You are still coming to this Chamber today and you are claiming that you are fighting for the weakest and that you are giving a great fight to keep the taxfree where it is. But you are not saying that, with the increases in indirect taxes, the weakest are the ones that are being put in. Isn't that right? And I hope there is no more package than the bill you have already tabled, in the form of indirect taxes, which will complement the bill that we have already seen. So that's what the citizens understand today. They understand a harsh reality and see a political and economic deadlock. There is a solution to this deadlock, Mr Tsipras, you simply cannot offer it. And you cannot offer it because this government has no real plan to exit the country from the crisis. There was a project, the most famous 'parallel program', which was degenerated along the way. And you have no plan, Mr Tsipras, because with no confidence and no determination you cannot implement the reforms that the country really needs. You don't believe them. You don't want them. The reforms that will free the country's productive potential, which will attract investment, which will enable the new entrepreneurship to flourish, are reforms that you do not believe, which is why you have already failed. I do not want to discuss the financial data again. I think they're a little familiar. But I am forced, because you have brought the matter back. We, to remind you, reduced the exceptional contribution by 30%, Mr Tsipras. We reduced VAT on the catering by ten points. We reduced the taxes on heating oil. We reduced insurance contributions by 5%. We have been able to claim levels of budgetary freedom, precisely because we are reliable. You know, however, we did not waste this freedom on 'days' recruitment for micro-political populism. We really believe that today there is a possibility for a different mix of fiscal policy with less costs and less taxes. You do not believe this, so the measures that you will ultimately vote will not have the expected effect, Mr Tsipras, because they will lead the economy to a deeper recession. You have already left various interesting suggestions that EYROSTAT might announce a primary surplus tomorrow. Two comments on this. We do not know the exact figures, but once a surplus has been achieved, this will have been achieved due to additional taxes and a Greek State payment stop. And secondly, beware, the primary surplus in itself does not guarantee development conditions when achieved with the wrong policy mix. I have here an interesting position of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. And what does Mr. Chakalotos say about the primary surplus in 2013? It says "And the term is not enough, because we historically know that it is entirely compatible with having a surplus and having a stagnation in the economy, great unemployment and production in nowhere". Here, the imprinting of the current situation in the words of the Minister of Finance himself. This is the situation in Greece today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So there is another policy mix and we have proposed it to you: to reduce expenditure, to rationalise defensive expenditure, really to respect the budgets of enterprises and public sector bodies, where there is an absolute discrepancy in expenditure, to suspend increases in the general public sector, to a stricter system for supplies. None of this has been done, Mr Tsipras, because you are not interested in doing this. You are not interested in harming your political customers and you are charging the bill back to the many, especially the weakest and, of course, the middle class, which is suffering today from your own policy. You asked us about the debt. But you spoke again today about debt write-offs. I guess you missed it. Unless you've come back. I imagine you said it in the hole of your speech. Unless you've come back. Explain to them what the government's position on debt is. Mr. Stathakis, as far as I remember, is still your Minister. Because Mr Stathakis said that the debt is absolutely viable by 2022, if I remember correctly. He said it a week ago. Well, will you finally tell us what your position is on the debt? Our position on the debt is very clear. Let me repeat it: in fact, debt today, as it has been shaped, is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u227	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u228	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Papadopoulos, you're forcing me to call my colleagues and loved ones. You're very welcome. I said it's not a show here, and we all know it. Mr President, here you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u230	Indeed, parametric changes in debt are needed, equivalent to those agreed in November 2012 and, indeed, Europeans have not been badly implemented. They also have a responsibility for the fact that a decision taken in 2012 was not implemented. So this must be the national line on debt and I hope you can secure it. But you know the problem isn't just debt. For we always see the ratio of debt to GDP. Indeed, if we look at the ratio of debt to GDP, our debt is totally disappointing. Who's dealing with GDP by your own government? Whatever interventions are made to debt, if the economy does not start to grow, we will still have difficulty in serving our debt. But how will this economy go ahead, when we have a government that is allergy to real reforms, which despite your own attitudes, brakes the real privatizations? How can you restore liquidity to the market, when you yourself, and today we are talking about perpetuating the negotiation, have you declared a posteriori of payments? So the economy does not go forward, Mr Tsipras, with all that you do. All we experience again, this theatre, this torment of the drop is nothing but an internal arrangement game, to find it with the fifty three and to tell the Greek people again how proudly you negotiated. Only the bill once more will be much higher! That is why we are telling you, Mr Tsipras, that your stay in power is harming and the sooner you leave the better it will be for the country! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm hanging up. Sometimes I ask myself, Mr Tsipras, whether you really want to conclude this negotiation and if you can withstand the difficult measures which your party has made inevitably. Are you, in the end, looking for a heroic exit to remain the genuine expression of the nationalistic arch and perhaps to restore the division of a memorial and an antimony? I'm not saying that. Fifty-three people call it. He's yours. Please give an answer because, having completely undermined the Greek society and always burdening all the sufferings - I stress it - on the back of the bad foreigners, there will always be an expression of the final break with the creditors. I really wonder if behind your newly acquired pro-European face there is nothing darker. But one thing is certain, Mr Tsipras. Whatever your plans are, we here, as a New Democracy, will prevent them and the Greek people will not tolerate any more games on their backs and much sooner than you believe, the New Democracy will regain the fate of its country to lead it to a safe port, away from third-world searches and left-wing populisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u231	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Tinos and the Municipal School of Tower of Tinos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We have the secondary speeches of the President of Mr Mihaloliaku and the Secretary-General of Mr Koutsouba, and in the end the Prime Minister will intervene to close the debate today. Please don't go away, don't leave the Chamber. I do not have the right to say that, but we can in this House finish the sitting. Mr. Michaloniaco, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has completely left the subject of today's sitting, both the denunciation of the Prime Minister of Mr Tsipras and the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. The Prime Minister said that the evaluation will definitely be closed, which means that the Greek people will definitely suffer with further bloodshed. I wonder if anyone thought that in a few days' time they will be completed six years, since the then Prime Minister of PASOK George Papandreou put the country in the narcotic memorandum, which was supposed to be an ethnoic memorandum that SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras would be torn apart. So you ask, and the Prime Minister asked what position you are taking. We respond and answer with your own words, with what you have said. Dig the memorial! It hurts the country. That's the only way to save the people! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, Mr Mitsotakis - to refer to what he said on this issue - said that he has another policy. But he's known to have the same policy. Together, SYRIZA and New Democracy voted on August 14, 2015, the Left Memorial, which leads to these new measures. In fact, the Prime Minister said with enthusiasm: 'We went to the people'. Yes, you went to the people in a referendum that we too voted 'no'. And 'no', you did 'yes'. That's how you respected the people. There has also been reference to debt, which is unbearable and is impossible for the Greek people to deal with. The only solution for the debt is its complete deletion and the complaint to international organisations. There is a paraphilogy that, along with evaluation or in a proper, mature time, the debt issue will be raised. But the President of the International Monetary Fund itself, Lagard, made it clear in a recent statement that it would not under any circumstances be a debt cut but an extension. So what do you want? Charge the Greek people for the next few years. Wrong. For the next generations, not just for the next few years. This is the solution you give, which, of course, is far from being promised as SYRIZA to the Greek people. You forget, of course, that 35% and 36% that you took do not represent the SYRIZA of 3% and 4% but much wider strata, which is fatal to leave you in the coming elections. He also said Mr Mitsotakis, in reply to the Prime Minister, that he does not fish to the far right where the Golden Dawn is right. Whatever you do, a movement was born in this country, a movement of people and nationalistics, and this movement was not able to shake it either with prisons or with murders. Golden Dawn is here and will remain defending the interests of the nation! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis has also attacked, as a link between the Left and terrorism. But in his prototype he had clearly said that every debate on this matter is not appropriate, because it is always within a hegemony of the Left. I'm asking. Who has cultivated this ideological and political hegemony of the Left? The centreright, the false right of the New Democracy, which since 1974 has been afraid to say that it is right, is afraid to say that it has anything to do with nationalism and in the past years any election stay would be taken out of a group of their MPs and then said they would release the officers on 21 April. But these times are over. Nationalism has representation, it has Golden Dawn and nothing else can return. But it is, in fact, a comedian and schizophrenic, on the one hand, that Mr Mitsotakis opens up to the centre and the centre-left, even talking about fishing in bluish rivers and on the other trying to make fishing to the Golden Dawn. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Mr. Mitsotakis referred to Idomeni. I would also like to mention that. But in his complaint against the Government, he did not say what the New Democracy would do. All he said is there's only one doctor. What would he do? Would he send more doctors? Is that how he'd solve the problem? So we will endure the catastrophe, the literal catastrophe of the state at our borders? In addition, I would like to say on the issue of visiting Lesvos of Patriarch Constantinople, the Archbishop of Athens and Passion of Greece and the Pope of Rome, that it is a sad fact for me, because none of the three said a single word about the great guilty person of this tragedy, Turkey, who officially makes a para-state slave trade and those who caused the war in Syria and financed the jihadists. They just said blessings and nothing else. Mr Mitsotakis also referred to Mr Tsakalotou's statement and said he did not solve the problem of the economy with the primary surplus. Really? At the Samara - Venizelou government, but we heard and others were advertised that the primary surplus gives the solution and we are ready to go out on the markets. They did go out on the markets once, paying several hundred million to get out and then, of course, they were completely reversed. In this statement Mr Mitsotakis basically refuses the Samara - Venizelos policy, saying that. But while he dares to deny Samara - Venizelos, he does not deny Mr Papastavrous. Mr Papastavrou is for him - it seems - much more than New Democracy, much more than the previous government, to which he was also a member. He even said, by addressing the Prime Minister, that the sooner they leave the best. Deal! But what's the best? The New Democracy? Since the same policy is going to follow! What will he do in the case of Identified? What he did with the camps in Patras - where there were signs and monsters, we even had dead, who were illegally entering the trucks - what was happening in Igoumenitsa. Minister of Government also told you that we do not need to deal with the Army with Idomen and with what is happening to it. It's really a wonder. There is no state in the world where hundreds of thousands of foreigners illegally entered - you tell them irregular immigrants, yes, we call them illegal immigrants and refugees, those of them who are refugees, who are the minority - stone policemen, shut national streets and all this happens. So does the Army not have to deal with what is going on at the border? Why does he think the Army needs it? To cook alone? To mop and wipe? Is that what the Army is for? Right now, as the situation in Idomen is configured, does the police arrive to restore order? Oh, no! The border guards themselves still say that four thousand seven hundred have been appointed and you have them in Athens to guard the stadiums instead of guarding the border. It is an open wound to Greece at the moment. They've closed the country's borders. They have taken over the only railway that unites Greece and Europe. For us the only chance for order to be restored - yes! - It's the Army and only the Army! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The New Democracy spoke about its previous policy and, of course, received the congratulations from the Prime Minister, that Greece is indeed a safe country. We do not believe it and blame us for lack of patriotism. We share the view of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, especially the prefectures to which the problem exists, but - if you like - and in Athens. Here I have a complaint written in the book of events of the external structure of the "Dromocaete" Psychiatric Hospital, located in Exarcheia, in Koletis 17. The incident took place on Sunday night on the 17th. A group of people suddenly went to this psychiatric structure and told them to empty the building to put refugees and the service there called the police. Do you know what the police answer was? That he can't find the building. Why? Because the building is in Exarcheia, because the Exarches remain unbaptised, because they are "skinned children", no matter how much you want to deny it. If there are some para-states today, that's them! It is no accident that they have never touched a target that concerns SYRIZA. On the contrary, the offices of SYRIZA also took over, drank coffee and left money in the cage for the account. The New Democracy said it did different things. But I have here the evidence from the famous deportations - which were not deportations - which relate to 2014. He appeared to have deported twenty thousand three hundred and fourteen people in 2014. Seventy - seven thousand sixty - three people had then entered. Who were those deportees? There were nine thousand six hundred seventy-five Albanians who returned in the next few days, as usual, and the rest of them left with the relaunch programme. What's going on? Whoever illegals caught - they had built some closed detention centers, where there were only five thousand people, drops in the ocean in relation to illegal foreigners - they were held in police stations for two, three weeks, then declared a false address and told them that in three months they would leave and never leave. The President-in-Office is struggling, because the whole climate can bring about the rise of extreme right-wing forces in him. For us the rise of these forces throughout Europe, in England, in Italy, everywhere, is Europe's last hope of survival, a force of nationalist and popularism that will keep Europe Greek and Christian! I would also like to finish by saying that the position of the Golden Dawn is clear, in line with the proposal it has put forward and in a relevant bill. The Army, the Armed Forces to guard the border. Illegal entry into our country is considered a criminal offence. Greece must belong to the Greeks! Only then will there be hope in this place and only then will Greece be a safe country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr Michalliakos, President of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, other fundamental problems concern the Greek people. The government's negotiations with the "institutions" and the bills you're tabling, as well as the new "fruit" of preventive measures creates new insecurity in the populace. All of this is another proof that sacrifices for our people will be without end, without an end date. On the contrary, they will be strengthened in the altar of the recovery of the competitiveness of capital, the implacable, anyway, law on hunting the greatest capitalist profit. As for government propaganda, we have ensured the absolute protection of pensions and that low pensioners are protected, the government once again delivers simple deception courses. In particular, the government has now permanently introduced the eleven reductions, while it has added another, imposing an additional contribution on the health sector from 4% to 6%. In other words, the bill brings one more, which is equal to the rest of the eleven. In the new way of calculating pensions for those retired in 2016, despite what is being said and said and said today, they will be far reduced compared to today's, because the smaller rates of replacement will be calculated at much lower pension rates. The personal difference - i.e. the difference between the current pensions and their new way of calculating them - opens the way for reductions to today's pensioners. Additional pensions, disability pensions and CSR are being beaten. Pensioners do not go to the oven or to the supermarket with two wallets, one in one pocket with the main pension and the other in the other pocket with the subsidiary. It is therefore absolutely indifferent to them whether the reduction will take place in the main or subsidiary part of the pension. The result is the same. The pensioner will have less money in his pocket, which, in combination with the tax raid and the new tax bill that comes along with the insurance, will wipe out the last punctures of the people's income and speed up further poverty. These are the real and major problems of insecurity and lack of security for our country and our people. In addition, what security is there in workplaces, in ghetto industries - are we talking about - where hygiene and safety measures are not fully respected? These are, then, the real problems of civil insecurity. However, I have read today to "RIZOPASTI" - obviously other newspapers will have it - that 83, warm million euros are given to eight non-governmental organisations for their spectacular work in refugee. Mercy with all these matters! Mr Mitsotakis - although he is not here at the moment - I imagine he is also listening to him and are Members of his party here - you have restored the dangerous theory of the two extremes once again, even speaking only of the one extreme that you have identified as left, right-handed and with various expressions, etc. In fact, this policy is dangerous. You return to other times, doomed to the consciousness of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, your members and your followers. It is butter on the bread of atomic terrorism, the crimes of either your relative, Mr Bakoyannis, at that time, or the murderers recently of the criminal Nazi organization of the Golden Dawn - the Paul Bridge - who is still trialing and we do not know when it will end. It is butter on the bread, of those who only want to see the labour market suppression measures, because under individual terrorism or anti-corruptionist, undermining, provocative, provocative, provocative - as you wish, say the - actions of active mechanisms of criminal and secret services, as they were all, you put the people's movement and you call terrorism the struggles and the rights of the people. It is, of course, also butter on the bread of the government and of SYRIZA, who finds the opportunity, as we have heard from the Prime Minister, to talk about his left past and present and to speak as a resistance or as a resistance, and even at a time when he is rightly trying - we explain it - to be weaned from all of this. He is trying to adapt to Euro-Union data and his Memorandum of Understanding now. And together on a number of issues you've voted on, you're going with each other to the same cruising line. That's the point. There are various tricks - to say this - in this way - to disorientate the Greek people and to play, once again, the old two-party game known as this canopy that tries to stand up. But we won't do you the favor. Today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, confirms what we have said in the archeology. Every time a massive terrorist homicide took place, governments throughout the European Union wanted, as long ago as possible, more and more measures for public health, supposedly security. Again, we don't underestimate the problem. We're not underestimating any such kind of problem. But what can we do? Can we hide it? They are prophecies in sins all this in the final analysis. As a result, it turns out that in all the countries where these measures were taken and the strengthening of state and state repression mechanisms not only do they not even have the elementary deterrent ability, but rather they also work as recruitment agencies - I will say so - informants, active members of agencies, mechanisms, criminal organisations, such as the Islamic state, the jihadists, others before and say so. Throughout the last decades, the relationship between the murderous organizations and their action with imperialist organisations and wars born on the territory of the conflict of the different economic interests that permeate the whole system has proved to be a proof of this. Competition from energy control effort, with the well-known areas of competition, such as Syria, Libya or other countries, are being fed to provide sources and consequently decisive passages for the energy supply and Member States of the European Union. These are also competitions that signify a severe conflict of funds for the control of increasingly critical sectors - sectors of the economy, such as the confrontation of the steel industry, the automobile industry, etc. In increasing these competitions we must bear in mind that the slowing down of the BRICS countries, for example, the slowing down of China, the recession in Russia or Brazil at this time, the fall in the price of oil, the branch and other international trade agreements, etc. We must also be aware that a number of issues from the developments and the stubbornness of these contradictions have to do with the future of Europe - the euro area in particular - and who will have the upper hand in Europe, as well as the debate on the well-known Brexit and the referendum in Britain, that is, processes fuelled by the anemic recovery of the global capitalist economy under threat and new synchronised shocks. Ladies and gentlemen, as is the case with the attack on working people's rights, the final account of the consequences of wars and conflicts reaches the same always recipient, the working class, the people, is ringing their own door. The representatives of the other parties are raising the tons and shouting that we have a war, calling on the workers, the peoples to fight ideologically, politically with their own interests for the profits of the few and, of course, for these interests along the way to shed their blood on the new blood streams that are being mobilized for the smoothness of the markets, the territories, the sources and roads. We call on the people and youth not to do this to them, to draw up the proud path of mass struggle and resistance. He's the only one who can get us to the clearing. Thank you. I was inside and in my time! Just a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u235	Thank you to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Before we move to the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, fifteen students and students and a training meeting from the IKK of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now giving the floor to the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u236	Very briefly, Mr President, I would like to say that today's sitting has been interesting, because I think that those who have been attending will find out what the real ideological and deep political differences are, but above all, that it is of great importance, when it comes to ideas and opinions, not to have an enemy of reality and, above all, to account for the figures, data and data. The country is, in fact, faced with two major crises, one of the two at the same time affecting Europe today. It is perhaps extremely unusual that a country is at the heart of two parallel crises, economic and refugee crises. All the effort being made in difficult circumstances is being made to turn the country from part of the crisis into part of the solution. I would therefore like to believe that the message that will eventually remain from today's meeting is that the country is in the direction of getting out of the economic crisis, in the direction of tackling, despite the great difficulties facing it, the unprecedented refugee crisis, and at the same time that the country is not related to the security crisis, which is mainly afflicting the centre of Europe, because we are in a globally destabilised region and because terrorism takes the form of a new totalitarianism, especially when it is taking the cloak of religious fundamentalism. But today there has also been an effort on the part of the Officerial Response. Apart from the graph of votes and the occupation, the support of the extreme right-wing agenda, it has also been made an effort by the Chief of Officerial Response to deal with, once again, the support of some other extremes, the extremes in the negotiation. He told us that the primary surplus is not so important in the end. Mr Samaras has been talking only about the success of the primary surpluses, which were not finally here, which we did not see. We have only seen EUR 63 billion of measures, the pillaging of GDP, but we have not seen these surpluses. Today, then, Mr Mitsotakis rejected this concept. Maybe it's the only thing that's been differentiated from Mr. Samaras for all these years all this time. But I do not want to answer Mr Mitsotakis, nor do I want to go into a procedure that I believe does not help the level of confrontation. In other words, he came here and spent ten minutes of his secondary speech to deal with internal democracy in SYRIZA and with the opportunity within the parties to have opinions and these opinions to record them. Perhaps, Mr. Mitsotakis, that's our difference. We believe both in democracy and in internal democracy. You only yesterday deleted the secretary of your party's general committee and the whole youth organisation of your party, because the results at the conference were different from what you wanted! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Let the Greek people judge. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will, however, insist on the need to strengthen both internal-party democracy and democracy in its essence. I believe that the essence of democracy, of course, is also the defence of the rights and, of course, of the rights of citizens, including security. I just want to say that the positive results, despite the difficulties of negotiating last year, in relation to the primary surplus, are not random. It is mainly because of three factors. The first factor is of course an increase in tourism. The second is, however, the fact that we then made a decision, as we have now tabled bills with our own seal in Parliament - you are now going to say 'one-sided energy' - and we have voted for the hundreds of doses. You said that then, too, that 'unionary energy'. These hundred doses not only gave a breath to the winter market and to small and medium-sized professionals, to all our fellow citizens, but also to the funds. The third factor is the fact that we managed and absorbed 98% for the first time from the Structural Funds, the NSRs, by putting more than 5 billion on the market. Well, it's not random, then. The estimates that were saying we will have a deficit very large - even recently the International Monetary Fund said for less than 6% - were misguided. Nor, of course, is it accidental that we had no recession, 2.3% appreciated the International Monetary Fund for October that passed us. We didn't have a recession. We were almost stagnant. So you cannot include our own government in those governments that have actually shrinked national wealth. But it's important to see from now on. Indeed, we are at a critical turning point, in a critical negotiation. What matters is that the country has alliances in Europe, as you have seen from the Yunker declarations, not only from the left but from the right. And it would be good at least if these alliances were found in the wider political family of the European Right, you could identify yourself with them in the European People's Party and not with some other extremes. I would like to close, therefore, by saying that the Cassandras will be disproved. The evaluation will be closed. We're going to go through a critical canvas and open up the very critical debt write-down debate. I urge you in this debate to come and exchange views. I believe that when the evaluation is closed, you will have realised that it will no longer make sense to continue with a logic, which your predecessor, Mr Samaras, has first brought, all the time before, that is to say, if we fail, but to discuss how - and the criticism is accepted, the proposals accepted - the country will be able to have the greatest possible benefits in order to support development. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us remain from today's debate, of course, the deep ideological and political differences remain, but let us remain that Greece is and will remain a safe country, that Greece is and will remain a country that has a profound culture of defence of values, human values and universal values. This was the attitude of the Greek people in the unprecedented refugee crisis. Greece within a field of instability is the country that opens its arms to the different, but above all, it is leading to defending values, such as the value of democracy, such as the value of solidarity, the value of humanity. With this surplus of values - which may sometimes be more important than the budgetary surplus, which you thought was insignificant before - as a compass, I think we will be able to achieve. This year Greece will break every record of visitors coming. This year Greece will start the great effort, after six years, to get out of the crisis, to reverse this course, to the path to recession, to despair and disappointment. We will have the opportunity, the second semester, to have growth. We will be able to design a better future for the country and for the Greek people. Greece is a safe country, a country that has been taught by the crisis and will be able to build a better future, correcting the major failures that have led us to the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The pre-dated agenda for a debate held at the initiative of the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S1-commons.u238	With the agreement of the House at 16.45 minutes the sitting is closed for today, Wednesday 20 April 2016 at 18.00" on the subject of this House's legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
