ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 933/31-5-2016 of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the protection of the geotopes. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u2	Good evening. As we all know, yesterday was World Environment Day and for all of us, it is of course a primary necessity to protect it. But what's an environment? I will answer and say what Einstein said: 'Environment is what I am not.' And in this sense, man, natural forces, biological and abiotic characteristics and relations between them are involved in this structure that we call environment. Greece is one of the pioneer countries in the establishment of the European geoparks network, which are now officially integrated as of November 2015 under the auspices of UNESCO. Five regions of Greece are included in these parks, in the hundreds of twenty world farms: the fossil forest of Lesvos, Psiloritis of Crete, the area of Sitia, the National Drama of Vikou - Aos, the National Park of Helmos - Vourikos. The importance of the need to protect the geoenvironment is not sufficiently understandable or widespread. The institutional framework of the last decade hastened to protect the living environment, which was at risk of man's intense activity and has forgotten to deal with the depth of all the ecosystems that are the ground. The purpose of the question is, Minister, to monitor the adequacy of the institutional framework and to highlight the issues that arise in relation to the protection of the geographical heritage, both at a more general and at a more specific level, commensurate with the spatial examples describing the potential and needs of different regions. It is a pretext, of course, that we consider the Minister's interest to be top of the concrete actions in this area. The existing institutional measures for the protection of geotopes are based on n. Date of birth: 3937/2011. This law has taken a step in clarifying the geo-environmental concepts and decoupling their value purely from the host biodiversity, although the overall legislation aims to preserve it. The 2011 Act, amending previous articles of the Law. 1650/1986 categorised protected areas based on the corresponding International Nature Conservation Union categories. The essential difference is that the recent provisions underline the self-evidence of a formation, its inherent geological and geomorphological value, regardless of whether it contributes to maintaining physical processes, protecting natural resources, or whether it has a scientific value. For the first time, the definition of the landscape is also given, whereas the layout for protected landscapes refers to the concept of a geoparent. The National Strategy for Biodiversity, completed in January 2014, has a time horizon until 2020. In its proposals on the protection of the landscape, the need to maintain geotopes and biological diversity is added. However, comprehensive protection of the geological heritage exists only in relation to the protection of archaeological caves under the archaeological law. National legislation on the remaining caves, Paleontological residues and other geomorphological positions is extremely incomplete and no ministry or regional service takes over their protection. Geomorphological positions include those created by humans, for example mines, while in Law 3937/2011 we note that there is a need for administrative characterisation of geotopes by terminating a series of extremely long-term actions. In other words, there is no possibility of direct activation of protection procedures. On this basis, we would like to ask, Minister, how the immediate protection of geotopes and geological formations is achieved, when they are at risk of destruction or of reduced value, and what steps the Ministry is going to take in this matter of protecting geodiversity. In addition, what services have the power at local and regional level to intervene in cases of destruction of these geological formations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really share your interest. I would also like to say that the concept of 'environment' in Greece is often misunderstood and we forget that environment, really, is what surrounds us, that is, even the time to go to work every day is an environmental issue. There is anthropogenic environment and landscape not only the natural but also the anthropogenic landscape. So this is a very complex issue, which concerns all of us and above all is the property of the Greek people, which is shared and that is the most important one. As far as the specific geoparents are concerned, I would remind you that Law 3937 states precisely how they are defined. In fact, here I would point out that the status process and the accession process are relatively simple, simpler than the NATURA areas, although most of these are indeed in NATURA areas, which means that there the framework is very strictly defined by procedures - I must admit - indeed, as you quite rightly said, time-consuming. However, they are good times, because I would remind you that, for a NATURA area, specific environmental study is required first of all, the presidential decree is required, which is - to understand our fellow citizens - that is, the city plan for the city, which defines the use zones. From there on, of course, the management plan is also needed, which will quantify from these areas what can and how much can be done, for example, in important forests that grazing is permitted but to what extent. On the contrary, the process is not so difficult for the farms. Wonderful, with a simple environmental report, which is not an environmental study, but something simpler and with a decision by the decentralised administration, a park can be characterised as a geoparent. In this sense, I must say that it is relatively simple to call an area of geoparents but, indeed, you are putting a fruitful dialogue, which we have no objection to doing with a local society, that in such a simple characterisation, with a simple ecological study, of course, there are no protection zones. In order to establish protection zones - if we wanted to change the law - we really should have a presidential decree, that is to say by banning certain uses. This, of course, is not simple because the Council of State is involved in the Presidential Decrees. It is, therefore, an issue if we want this simple we have today - which, of course, I admit, does not have the high degree of protection that the NATURA region has - or if we want to go to something higher, as is, for example, a presidential decree. One would often say, for example, that for the Caldera of Santorini it would be necessary for a presidential decree to lay down construction conditions and other bans. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this sense, therefore, I think that the way we are today, there is an adequate definition and an adequate procedure in relation to the international acquis. From there on, of course, if we want to raise the level of protection, it is good to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u6	First of all, I think there is a number of institutional issues on this issue, Minister. There is a lack of direct protection of geotopes without the need to verify their value through an administrative act and without their dependence on the living element, which may host, omission of categorisation, standardisation of geoforms and geotopes at institutional level, absence of comprehensive recording and imprinting and a lack of institutional cooperation between operators, absence of an institutional framework specifying the type of studies and the possible interventions. But there is also a failure to take responsibility from the Ministry of Culture, according to the assumption that the farmers are part of the environment and, of course, there is a fragmented administrative coverage from the Ministry of Culture. Also, there are conflicting spatial planning and significant organisational problems of services related to this. For all this, however - and on the basis of your position - I would say that in order for anything to be done it is necessary to change our perception of environmental protection and, I would say, achieve equal attention and respect for biodiversity with the abiotic elements of nature. That is why I will make some proposals in this context, such as the need to create an institutional framework, which will make it clear that the geological heritage is directly and immediately protected from the need for administrative recognition as a protected person, the registration and registration of the geotopes' geographical information system for the whole country through cooperation between public and private bodies. This action can be implemented at least at the beginning of the programmes already being prepared by the IGM, provided that it is extended to areas not qualifying as a geoparent. IGME had already contributed a great deal to the studies it had carried out in the farms, which are under the protection of UNESCO today. However, it is also necessary to involve other state bodies, which have archives and private associations with valuable archive material. It is also proposed, during the field research process, that the operator, who will be responsible for personnel with technical knowledge of the approach to the environment. The list that will be created we propose that it be ratified and updated periodically. We are proposing that the standards for the type of studies should be laid down, but also for the possible interventions in the light of the previous standardisation of the geotopes. These specifications must not only relate to protected landscapes or monuments of nature, but must all be limited to the fields and their individual elements which are not dependent on administrative recognition. We also propose an attempt at a single legislative approach and an administrative approach to the protection of geotopes, so that it is clear which body assumes responsibility for their security. Even if it is not possible to assume only one body, it is necessary to allocate responsibilities according to geotopes standardisation. And, of course, there must be an lifting of the confusion between administrative, audit and educational research powers between the institutions and every effort must be made to cooperate and engage with the realisation of protection. In conclusion, I would say that there is a need for institutional national protection of geoparents and the definition of activities that can be carried out within them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. You really are right that there are a few different issues. Another thing is registration, another thing is institutionalisation, another thing is the rules of protection, and of course another thing is control over whether these rules are complied with or not. In the last NRP 2009-2013, the project ‘Geotopes, geoways, geoparagus infrastructure and their integration into the global UNESCO geoparent network’ has been included in the IGM, which you rightly mentioned. Nowadays, there is a spatial database with a thousand fifty registered and categorised fields, an Atlantis of Greece's geotopes, interactive mapping applications of the internet and nine geodimensions and business plans for two geoparents of Vikos - Iooan and Laureate. That's all about recording. Of course this work can go ahead. I would remind you that as far as the new NATURA is concerned, we are the first government to incorporate all the NATURA areas of Greece, with EUR 17 million for all NATURA, which is 28% of the entire Greek territory. Specific environmental studies and presidential decrees and management plans should be prepared. In this sense, at least, in those areas such as Viku - Aowe, the geoparkon is in a NATURA region - because, as I have told you, most of them are in NATURA - which is protected under Law 3937, it is of course not only the living - but it is also the unspeakable ones, for example, in Kyparissia, where, by the Presidential Decree, the major one we are protecting at the moment is not the carnet - the carpet - which is, but, precisely, the ammothines that maintain this impressive ecosystem with the pine forest. It is clear, therefore, that there is no derogatory procedure between geologically protected and embryos protected. On the contrary, because they are mentioned separately. It is simply a political choice and we have all the good will to discuss whether or not we really have to go to the third level, which is the protection of these objects, that is to say, we really need to go to life, that is to say, restrictions. If we go to life, this must only be done by a presidential decree, and that is normal, because otherwise any citizen felt somehow bound by this increased protection, so from the most strictly controlled activity, could appeal to courts and be justified. So if we want to get the farms to a level that is 'NATURA', that is to say, President-in-Office, that in my opinion - you know my sensitivity - I am close to you, to do so. But that means, of course, more stringent procedures and what that means. I too think - I have said this repeatedly in the House - that stricter protection is good for the economy, it is not bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u9	And we thank you for the presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making two announcements to this House. The Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Culture and Sport, Economic and Energy, Infrastructure and Networks, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Energy, and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Infrastructure and Tourism, European Commission, Ministry of Economy and Tourism, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers, Economic and Social Affairs, Economic and Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Energy, as well as the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Energy and Tourism, submitted a draft law on 3-6-2016, ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on ‘annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/33/EC’ and of the European Parliament and of the Council, and of 18 May 2014 (OJ L 108, 13.4.2014) of the European Union Committee of the European Union and of the Council, with regard to the European Union’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Tenical Responsibility of Ministers", as in force on 2-6-2016, a criminal case for the Minister of Health. And we move to the fourth with number 906/24-5-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of National Defence, on the creation of a hot spot in the district of the newly refugeed Pontius, Gortsha Aspropriator. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Undoubtedly, the dimensions of the refugee issue are many, starting with humanitarian and ending up in social and economic terms. Minister, the government has lost valuable time and is still seeing the issue first and then in any other way. The day before yesterday, I was discussing with Mr Xanthos about the health plan for dealing with the dangers that citizens and refugees themselves have as a human being, as families, which are within these official camps, but also unofficial ones. Today, in the same way, I really want to deal with how the local dimension of the issues should not be predominant. It must be hot spots in all places, as in the western Attica, which at the moment I have the excellent honour to represent for my resignation to the Greek Parliament, but, Minister, your design is in trouble. I have written to you in the question a number of factors, such as the existence of LPG operations, chemicals companies in the area, which have an increased risk, first of all, for the people themselves who will be in the hot spot. I would also mention that it is on the Peace Avenue, former NATO. But I would like to focus on something that for me - for us in the Democratic Reconciliation - is of great importance to the social dimension. In this quarter, you should be aware that there is a very high degree of unemployment, poverty and exclusion, a large number of criminal incidents and violations. So in this area, which has poverty, unemployment, which has people who are also newly refugees, perhaps a little older... [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Mr President, just a moment of your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u11	Keep going, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u12	Well - well, now they are learning the language and embedded in the local society, in which they must be integrated. So there is a problem of exclusion. You are not going next to the problem of exclusion to put another problem, because instead of improving and going into social inclusion, we are going instead to logical nationalist, racist and xenophobic. Mr President, unfortunately - I also address you - we have seen them in other parts of the country, and I think they are extreme expressions of fanaticism, which we must prevent. That is why, despite the criticism we have occasionally made on the refugee question, you will see, Minister, that, in the big issues, in the Council of Heads, we 'we have put our backs on the ground'. So I say to be hot spots in Aspropyrgos if you choose. I don't care what the mayor and the deputy mayor suggest. Let's propose what they think. You, after listening to them and listening to the institutions, choose an area. Thank God, there are vast areas in the west of Attica, since the West Attica has also been chosen to become a hot spot, but not there, because there is a real and social danger, Mr Minister, but also a political one, as I have mentioned, and I do not want to expand for good reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Christophilopoulou, I would first like to say that I am pleased that you have changed a lot in your oral position in relation to the content of your question. But I will come to you very specifically and objectively on the contents of your question, precisely because a piece is, we would say, 'copy-paste' not from your question but from the announcements that have come out of the city authority and some bodies in Aspropyrgos and you think I am addressing them as well. First of all, Mrs Christophilopoulou, to me it is clear that the opposition - Majority and Elisson - has chosen a path, that of opposition to the opposition. Why is it not otherwise explained that you are seeing a disaster, with regard to refugee, precisely where international organisations, foreign governments and large players - not that operate from a distance, but also within Greece - are congratulating us. Within less than three months, sixty thousand people hunted from the war and their place found first shelter, food, medical care, state and social support. All of this - and everyone must recognise it - in a state whose only and permanent care in recent years has been to create detention centres, a state unrelenting to face such crises, helpless institutions, and what matters, unprecedented practically. At the moment we are talking about, there are five reception centres on the islands and forty-two hosting centres on mainland Greece. I must tell you that it does not include the port of Piraeus and the Greek, as well as the structures that have been rented by the High Authority, in which, with enough money, some five thousand refugees of the High Authority are hosted. At the same time, another twelve new structures are being created and in a few days with the full evacuation of Piraeus for the second time and the essential relief in the Greek, the first phase is being completed and, at the same time, the second phase begins, with the reconstruction of some centres that we do not consider well, with the creation of more stable structures, with the launch of training processes, etc.. If you call these a disaster, we call it a daily attempt to hospitalize and improve hospitality. All this time we have been trying to reach out to the regional directors, the mayors, the local actors constantly, precisely because we understand that social consensus is a condition for proper functioning and I say to you that social consensus and solidarity were generally wider and deeper than local institutions. We've lived it after all. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I would also like to take the time of my dentistry. I won't talk later. More specifically, with regard to your question, I have had a joint meeting twice with the mayors of Western Attica. We must say that at the moment in the Western Attica there has not been a single refugee. This week, the three hundred firsts from Piraeus will be transferred to an apprenticeship area near the shipyard of Elefsina and in agreement with the mayor. Twice, then, I did such a meeting with the mayors and once again with the Mayor of Aspropyrgos and representatives of municipal councils and local bodies. In the first two meetings, this phenomenon has become common, which I think is now common. Each mayor proposes a space at the edge of another municipality, which does not accept and suggests a space on the edge of another municipality - to speak frankly - or, let's say, propose a camp. Of the forty-two or twenty are former camps to make this thing clear. This has happened in many cases and at times with the justification for specificity. We must, however, conclude here that the good words of solidarity are not enough. It must be proved in practice every time. It is not enough to demand that Idome evacuate. In this case, let me once again applaud the contribution of the Mayor of Paionia. He's not the only one, but he's a typical example in the whole management. It is not enough to evacuate Piraeus or the Greek. These people must go somewhere, with consensus and consensus, and not with the orders of space, as rightly and again - the PASOK government has done in the case of the great earthquake in Athens. Because then we had such phenomena, as we had problems with the Greeks - I cannot see them as refugees, and I imagine that neither will you - who came from other countries and have encountered problems. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u15	They're refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u16	So, on the basis of these difficulties, we were thinking of making use of a part - the 3/8 specific - of the Ministry of Finance, the former YPEKA area, according to the models of the settlement in Scaramaga, which is appreciated - what to do? - with a hospitality of up to a thousand five hundred refugees. The reaction of the Municipal Council and the Mayor of Assyprus was immediate and certain actors and verbally violent, with an incomprehensible arguments, which you unfortunately repeat in your question. But here we must respond to all interested parties. What's he going to say in an area of major crime, economic and environmental degraded? Is he going to say that the presence of refugees contributes to increasing infraction? Is the presence of refugees in a degraded area with twenty thousand Greek citizens, new refugees, too, should I accept your terminology? Instead, you and I, and Mr Toskas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, sit down and watch in this area, which is such a phenomenon - which has not yet gone any refugee at this time - how to solve them by means of regional development measures and by means of measures, perhaps, of repression - is right, or by prevention measures - which is even worse - we are discussing whether refugees are coming, that will go up. It's not right. What does it mean to say that there is the Peace Avenue, the former NATO Avenue, which is fast traffic? Will there be only for the refugees? Is there no peace path for the twenty thousand people in Gorchesa? There is. What do we mean - and here is the worst - that there is a few meters of Elefsina's airport? You don't write it, but they've started writing things - how do I say it? - It's just completely insane, in the city's letter, that this is the Empire and it doesn't allege, that it's Elefsina's airport, that it's the EYDAP refinery, that it's the oil refinery. Does anyone imply that there are national security issues from the presence of these people who have escaped the horror of war and are looking for security and life, or does anyone mean that this means bad conditions? But if he means it for the thousands of refugees, why doesn't he mean it for the twenty thousand people of Gorchesa? Mrs Christophilopoulou, I want to tell you this because you are writing it too. The area of Gortsa is six kilometers away from the refinery of Elefsina. The area of Gortsa is 5.9 km from the ELPE of Aspropyrgos. The Gortsa region is far away - I can't understand that, maybe you can explain it to me - from the water treatment plant of Aspropyrgos 4,8 km. But the municipality comes and makes a proposal for an ex-hunting house at the edge of nowhere - which I have to tell you is being examined, to see how we can improve the whole situation, and if it can be used - which is only 1.9 km from the ECHR tank. So we see that here are issues that we must tackle and I will tell you why. I want you to understand me, because from what I know - if I'm wrong, correct me - and you're from a refugee family or you have the origin, so your sensitivity is given to me. One of the biggest problems we have in managing the refugee, is finding accommodation facilities because of refusals from various and particularities. We've lived not with SYRIZA government but with other governments who have been called to deal with the same problem in other situations. Personally, I'd like to tell you that I'd expect the more ladders involved, not fake ones. When I talk about a lad, it's for me to say that the stranger scares me, to sit down and talk about it, to find the right way to solve it. Because if we do not do that, then fear of the unknown becomes the right ground for the development of xenophobia ideas. We all have to confront this together, the democratic people,. In any case, however, - and I should like to give a definitive answer to your question, if that part is to be done, it will not be possible - as happened at over 90% of the cases - to open up disputes of a local nature, nor, if you wish, to leave for a longer time the debate that runs counter to poor and intimidated people against poor and devastated people. We didn't do it anywhere. Besides, you've lived in Aspropyrgos, I mean the Aspropyrgos. We are living the same thing in New Life as in New York and in Black Time and elsewhere. We're talking about an area where I've worked for fourteen years, I've been there every day, so I know it pretty well. Already you can say, like the mayor himself, to the inhabitants there that it is not going to happen - and by decision of the coordinator - this hosting centre in that area. It may not happen anywhere in Aspropyrgos, because the proposals that are being made to us, I have written that they are not real, now I will take a step further, are false. They're making proposals to us, which aren't real. They offer us proposals for two industrial sites and we go and the people who own them "but we don't give them, we need them for alpha or beta speech". However, I have no doubt - and I do not think you have any doubts - that with the cooperation of mayors, regionals and bodies who are aware of the national and humanitarian importance of the thing we are managing, and we will replace this structure and we will find appropriate structures and create them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u17	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u18	Minister, thank you for your reply. Of course, what I would like to say about the local area is that I cannot go along with them at first - a bit of your tolerance, Mr President - and with some general information. Today we heard the news that the Greek and Piraeus will be empty. I hope so. We also heard the Minister tell us that Idomen was a shame, you did not say that word, I will say it. He was wrongly emptied so secretly, because it was a good process as it turned out. Maybe he's late, but he got fine. We in the Democratic Reconciliation are not going to say 'no to everything'. Let me tell you that we will not be like you. Let me remind you of the demonization of the Amygdaleza. Because when we did a pre-experienced - pre-experienced centre was Amydaleza - you might call on it to be better and not to be a demonisation of this thing, a policy that you had, even with delays, to put it into practice. Well, let's go to that one. I will also agree, and indeed my refugee origin gives me, at least by the experience of the ancestors who enter our homes and are lurking us, the feeling that the word'refugee' is not a word that is not honorable. What's that supposed to mean? Refugees are people who have been persecuted from their homes. They could be Greek. I'm glad you accept my term. They are new refugees, in the sense that they have not come from old times, Greeks are, but they are still unincorporated well and people need support. Now, I'm glad you said it wouldn't happen there. Why? Because, Minister, you may be able to contradict all the arguments and we could sit down and tell you and tell me, but I just want two things to stress. The first has the local dimension. And the other thing I think is about the country, the West Attica, but it also applies to all of Greece, where there are phenomena. For the local look, even though she, as I told you, I am a descendant of refugees, I want you to understand the feeling of the local residents. You're right. And we have suffered many times the month of the mayors who say: 'Not here, not me.' Perhaps the President who listens to us here in his own region has such phenomena, not just for refugee, for others. The mayor said: 'Not here, not me, to the other'. Many mayors are thus, unfortunately, mainly for environmentally-friendly initiatives and projects, which the Minister present here knows about. But this, especially the inhabitants of Western Attica, since you know her, they have one reason above, they have a sensitivity above. I am not saying that anything should happen in the West Attica, that we should not take refugees to the West Attica. But I say - and this is the second one - that I hope and understand from your answer that you too recognise that at last we cannot put poverty in poverty. If we want social mixing, if we want social prosperity and integration, you will not put refugees in the most difficult areas, Minister, to them, as you have said, with great poverty, with the problem of integration and with criminal problems. Because as far as these people, the refugees, you know very well - and perhaps better than me - and if we had time to talk more about this House, you would tell me that in the particular hot spots that exist around Greece, the populations are mixed and there is no one who can't fully control the situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not saying this to be afraid, but to point out that for a problem that some groups of social, some political, are investing in division, nationalism, racism and xenophobia, they will very easily now listen to this rhetoric, such as the resident of Gortsas. There's an outburst there. So it's a good thing that it doesn't happen there. As a Member of the European Parliament and as a representative of the Democratic Alliance, I can contribute to finding a commonly accepted solution. I think it is my duty to do so. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I would just like to say something for a minute because what I had to answer the question, I answered it. However, in the cognitive, Mrs Christophilopoulou, and without any controversy, I would like to say that in the second phase there will also be a separation, always awaiting the start of relocation procedures, because it is understandable that it is a source of tension and concern based on ethnicity. That's normal. But I would like to say to you that I do not agree with the concept expressed in both the Municipality of Assylum and by the City Council and by institutions. And I would like to say that if someone remembers in the recent past - it is not two months - we have cases of intense reactions which the first, second day they devoured. For example, we had the pigheads in Veria, Shhsto, as well as the threats elsewhere. And yet, there it is now that it is consumed. That is why I say that the majority - I am not talking about it, the overwhelming majority - understands the Greek people. Thus, I do not want to leave space on xenophobic and racist perceptions - to God, not to be misunderstood between us - who are looking and finding space on the fear of the unknown.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u21	That's bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u22	This fear - and we must agree on that - must be fought. But it's not the time to fight that character. And I'm sure that when the poor understands that, then he treats the poor much better than the rich man who doesn't understand what it means to be poor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u23	When he understands it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to answer the question to be discussed. So it was a very good debate, and I thank you very much for that. At this point, I would like to inform the House that the second under No 925/30-5-2016 question of the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr Stathakis. A similar coma has the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Toskas, and that is why the third is not discussed with number 916/27-5-2016. The first question of the Athens MP - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou, on the "management of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-union website". The fifth under number 937/31-5-2016 topical question by Congressman B' Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO SBE), is not discussed due to a blockade (workload) by Mr. Tsakalotos. Also, the second question, with number 907/25-5-2016, of the second question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the progress of the projects for the exploitation of the former airport of Greece, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question under number 935/31-5-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings and problems of the EKA's fleet, is not debated because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. Also, the fourth under number 846/9-5-2016 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, regarding the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth question under number 825/254-2016 is a topical question of the second Piraeus II cycle of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Meta-Mexas, not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first time under number 926/30-5-2016, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the payment of the minimum possible coupled aid to citrus producers, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos. The third, with number 938/31-5-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the situation in the Schools of Second Opportunities, is not being discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Georgiou Friend. The sixth Question No 929/30-5-2016 topical question from the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the budget diversion, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-06-S1-commons.u26	With the consent of the House at 18.56 the sitting is closed for Thursday 9 June 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
