ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the current Question Time issue on Friday 12 February, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. H pursuant to number 517/9-2-2016, a topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the possibility of abolishing the forced nature of the Chios Mastics Association. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The No 511/9-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of New Democracy, Elena Rapti to the Minister of Health, on the revocation of decisions decommissioning innovative services from the Institute for Health of the Child. 3. The Question No 508/8-2-2016 by F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the creation of hot spots in Kos and the immediate withdrawal of MAT from the island. 4. The Question No 521/9-2-2016 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning borrowers of housing loans with the currency of the Swiss franc. 5. The Question No 507/8-2-2016 by MP Larissa of the Centroon Association Mr Georgios Katsiantoni to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the closure of the Centres for Lifelong Learning in Larissa. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. H under number 518/9-2-2016 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the repeal of Subsection F4) of Article 1 of Law No 4254/07.04.2014 entitled ‘Structuring barriers to competition in retail trade — book-sharing arrangements’ and reintroducing the repealed paragraphs 3a to 3d of Article 1 of Law 2557/1997. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 510/9-2-2016 by MP Kavala of the New Republic Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on licences for bluefin tuna for 2016. 3. - The Question No 514/9-2-2016 by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the insurance of farmers. 4. The Question No 522/9-2-2016 by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the fines of the National Broadcasting Council (ESP) in the Media of Mass Information (SMEs). 5. The Question No 516/9-2-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance concerning publications of the magazine “ENICITRA”. 6. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Health, on the implementation and modernisation of the necessary institutional framework, as well as on the quicker response of public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies to our country. 7 H under number 482/2/2016 a topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health on the operation of the Computer Tomograph (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. 8. The question by No. 487/2-2-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problem of workers at the General Clinical "Lysimachos Sarafian" in Thessaloniki. 9. The question under number 472/1-2-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Central Banks Mr Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the establishment of the Centre for the Reservation of Refugees in Sindo. 10. The question by No 436/22-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the 'explainable and unjustified increases in fuel prices for Greek consumers'. 11. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the high charges of banks in all transactions using debt-credit cards. 12. The question by No. 401/18-1-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the high prices of fuels in our country, while the price of oil internationally is low. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 432/22-1-2016 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the deadline for updating the files of outstanding applications of borrowers in accordance with the n. 3869/2010 and the time limit for the provision of the detailed payment statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our first question with number 495/8-2-2016. First question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the loans of parties and lists of grand depositors abroad. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Dimitris Papaggiopoulou. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. This question concerns both sides of the sinful triangle of interacting and corruption, banks and former major power parties - this afternoon the House will discuss the third corner, the private television channels. Of course, it is an open matter, which concerns the vindication of a people who are now in the process, going through a profound social and economic crisis and cannot continue to hear that this power, of the past, of the former, of the old big parties - that is why it has made small parties - the loan and unscrupulously still to remain unscrupulous. So it remains open for a large number of questions, Mr Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, with equal treatment for all citizens, equality and equality. The questions raised are, in particular, about the will of the administrations of credit institutions to demand that loans granted and never repaid - we are talking about 210 million for New Democracy and 150 million for PASOK. This desire of the banks to the power parties must be reflected in concrete actions by the administrations of the banks, such as the actions to which they are populated, when the two major parties of power are not against them, but ordinary citizens and borrowers. If I raise this matter again, Minister, it is not for the sake of political controversy. It is because the political world is entitled to enjoy, have and defend morality, legitimacy and credibility. No one can be the housewives to others and at the same time for their own debts and for their own loans to shed their islands! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am referring, Minister, to the sinful provision which is the definition of demolition and philosophical rule. I am talking about Article 78 of the n. 4146/2013- good time, Thursday it was, 4-4-2013- that the impunity for the administrations of the banks became law. Whoever arranged according to the beam and protected the interests of the New Democracy and PASOK, enjoyed the impunity. Bank orders for parties' loans. Gikas Manalanis for the 'black' to the ERT and so many other irresponsible amendments. Those who took over to do the dirty work should be protected for the next day. And the provocative thing, Mr Papagelopoulos, is that this provision, which then came four hours before the vote - not three days as laid down in the Rules of Procedure - did not only regulate the loans provided, and here I will repeat what he said in the Minutes, then Dimitris Papadimoulis: 'The most scandalous is that this amendment does not only exempt what was given but also what will be given in the future'. And for that very reason, it is important that an issue, the political, the compared provision, be cancelled, come out of the narrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u5	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u6	...the moral map of this government, our government, SYRIZA - ANEL and, on the other hand, return in every way. And I ask: do today's administrations enjoy the impunity or will they face the charge of infidelity if they do not effectively claim this money to be repaid?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u7	You've become clear, Mr. Triantafylides. There's a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u8	For the second part of my question, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the first question by the honourable Member, that is to say, if the banking institutions are normally making progress in collecting the loans they have granted, it is up to the Ministry of Finance and the relevant Directorate-General for Economic Policy. The case-file, as I have already mentioned before, has been filed in accordance with Article 43 on account of this amendment and remains in the courts to decide whether this provision is constitutional or unconstitutional. The competent judicial bodies will also decide whether there is a case of infidelity for credit institutions that will not seek repayment of such loans. As far as your second question is concerned, as to whether the names on the various lists will be known, because there is a huge public interest and a people's demand for justice, I would like to say that I understand and share the interest of public opinion, but our legal culture is not intended to disperse people, but to settle cases and give them the blame. After all, Article 241 of the Code of Criminal Procedure makes the secrecy of this procedure necessary. But I must say that, regardless of that, it is important, as I have said, that the performance of responsibilities and that is why the relevant financial prosecutors, with methodicity and with all the substantiated logistics they have, work at night and have achieved impressive results so far. Since February 2015, two hundred and fifty financial commitments have been issued. For the Lagard list, an appeal order has been sent through the IPO for those involved. For the Borgian list, directly with its delivery and identification with UBS data, daily calls are sent. The financial prosecutors have requested information from credit institutions again through the Bank of Greece on investment products. This is a new area that the financial prosecutors had bought Greek depositors and sent during the crisis abroad. Accounts of the obligors shall be frozen and direct criminal proceedings shall be brought. I want to assure the House and the Greek people that the Greek prosecutors and, in general, the judges are doing their duty in full and will give up their responsibilities where they have to, but do not sever people before they are taken to the defendant's stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u12	I continue your thoughts about the worthy judges, because this sinful provision brought by the Pasokoneocaust on 4 April 2013 did not come, Minister, as a lightning lightning in hunger. It came when the two worthy financial prosecutors, Mr. Pepponis and Mr. Mousakitis, had called the parties' cashiers and the banks' administrations to explain the state subsidy for the next fifteen years, with guarantees of 35% and 40%. That was the guarantees. I shall return there, as you have said, personally as far as we are concerned, both with SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, in order to ask and demand that abundant light be poured out on this sinful amendment. So when the strips and the judicial review of the two above-mentioned prosecutors were tightened up enough, it was precisely then that, as a conclusion, from the congress and then Hippocrates - both buildings of the parties were changed - to bring Amendment No 78, by the then Hippocrates. Date of birth: 4146/2013. Here I would like us to be clear whether this amendment, Article 78 and whether the administrations of banking institutions, Mr Minister, Mr Papaggiopoulou, will be cancelled, the impunity and do not feel the pressure of the next public prosecutors and judiciary, the worthwhile judicial authorities, to investigate this really very important issue for the public, which requires that credits remain not credited and unsavoury. I come to what you said. I think we need to see what the highest public interest is, that is to say, making a distinction between interests. And, of course, I, the learner of law, to the valid and experienced judicial officer, Mr. Papagelopoulos, the Minister. Discrimination between the public interest and the personal right to hide behind the verde of personal data. It cannot be said that the fog and fog are all political, journalists, all the businesspeople. Because, Minister, politicians and journalists are not individual individuals, they manage powers and if during the exercise of this power they enjoy the possibility of having dirty money or undeclared money abroad, their names must be known. That's the people's demand. It's not anthropophagia or cannibalism. Everyone's as they are, he's sleeping! And so the clean and the right of one politician, journalists, businessmen, but also those who put the finger on honey and tried to take advantage of individual goods, because of the positions of power they had both as politicians and as journalists and as entrepreneurs. I am here - and I am closing up with this - Minister, what about the canalutists' loans? Isn't there a delay in their control? I'm going to the other side of the sinful triangle. We talked about the banks, we talked about the parties. With the canals' loans, what exactly is going on? Is there going to be plenty of light? Is there going to be a dispute? It's a popular demand. We promised the world, Minister. We promised the citizens. Financial data due to quartet and agreements cannot be obtained. At the very least, to satisfy the demand that abundant light be poured out, that justice be actually brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u14	I would remind you that justice must be independent and independent. The government must help her to do her works and nothing else. I would remind you of the amendment on which I was criticised but also praised, which enables economic prosecutors to use resources that are not legally acquired. I would like to say here that most of the prosecutors and judges searched me, because I did not extend it to all offences. It's something that concerns me, I'll see it in the future. Here too, let me say something personal. I have recently been called a populist for this amendment. I mean, that doesn't make me sad. The populist means to be delightful to the people. I want to be good and useful to the people, not good and useful to the economic elite. As for the media loans you said, I would like to inform you that the control is continuing. For the first time strong and surnamed factors pay their debts. Investigations that were carcinogenic or didn't even start, now they're moving fast. If you are implying a delay in the investigation into canalarchs, I would like to tell you that there are competent institutions in justice that judge it if there is any delay. I would like to assure you that the age of impunity is over and that is because it is a requirement, not only of the government but of all healthy political forces and especially of our people. So it is historical prefecture, and let us not forget that the nemesis always succeeds in perpetuating it, so that the plentiful and ransoming cleansing finally prevails. What happened in previous years - and I am speaking in a long time - which led our country here, will be revealed and given responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The second question under number 500/8-2-2016 will be discussed in an up-to-date first-round question by the Parliamentary of Attica, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on dealing with crime in Zefri Attica. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not want you to think that I am obsessed with this issue, because unfortunately, it is the third question over eight months that I have tabled on the issue of crime in the West Attica. In the first question, which I had tabled to your predecessor at the time, and while I think we are all in agreement with the difficulty in the Western Attica, he said in his reply that there is a plan to deal with this issue and that - I will not say how it is. In the question I asked you about three months ago and raised in particular the issue of the problem in the Near East Egyptians, you told me then that you were studying the possibility and planning the movement of 50 police officers in order to strengthen the power and the policing in the region. My insistence on this issue is that you know that it moves and comes from constant desperate calls from the citizens. When I tabled this question, there were civilians on the street who were calling me and not the police - or, at any rate, the police and me, because they had just been attacked and there was a man who was bleeding in Zephyri, after an attack he was attacked during an attempted robbery and, in any case, ended up having physical injuries. So I wanted to put the matter back to you again, see if this issue has gone ahead with the movement of 50 police officers to increase the police force in the West Attica. I will extend my question a little further and ask if a plan has been drawn up to tackle this very difficult problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u17	The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikolaos Toskas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, Mr Voridis, we are discussing this question of security in the Western Attica region again. You've asked a topical question before on 29 October, if I'm not mistaken. And you did well because there's a very serious problem in the area. I have not come here to make good, nor have I come to mention the many plans that the police have written to me here to report to the House. Because it is not a question of discussing plans and papers, but of discussing actions and seeing results. I think we agree on these issues for the practical treatment and the pragmatic treatment of a very serious issue, which is not solved in one day, not only by police measures and I think we agree with them. Let me answer directly as far as the hundred and fifty police officers are concerned. Yes, they were indeed transferred to the West Attica, as I promised, and in a very short time. It was then that the DELTA group was abolished. Allow me, because I'm a little suspicious, I took care to look for and see if they were actually transferred to these police stations or left somewhere else, as is sometimes customary in the state mechanism. No, they're there. These cops are there. Your next question, of course, is: 'What did they do?' To prevent you, several police operations have been done since we discussed since 29 October. You know, my logic is not the logic of big sudden operations, with the media above, to create impressions, and the next day it will all be forgotten. We'll have a timely success, but from that point on there won't be any more. I told you at that time that the outbreaks of the evil of the region, which, in the case of police, are mainly drugs, arms and fraud involving mainly theft of cars and other items, scraps, etc., must be struck. In this context in November two major businesses were made without announcing - they do not need such things - in the Zefyrio area and in general in the western Attica. There was another major operation in December. They succeeded in finding large quantities of drugs. We are talking about the quantities of thirteen pounds of cocaine, eighteen pounds of heroin and too many pounds of hashish. It's too much. And that's where we're trying to fight those fountains of evil. Are we satisfied? Apparently not. Are we going to continue? Yes, and we are aiming to intensify controls so that the peaceful residents in the region can live as much as possible without problems. But it's a constant struggle and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u19	Wait a minute, Mr Vorides, before we continue the debate on Zefyrio's 'Avato', I should like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 16 students and students and an attendant of the 7th Municipal School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have to say this: first of all, it is very positive that these policemen have moved. The second is that there are also citizens - because I want to say all of them - who recognise that there has been a period of time - I am expanding it, because it can be over the last two years, three years - a significant improvement in the police presence in the wider region. Most of all, I must say, this concerns parts of the Acharnes region. Mostly there focuses on improvement. But I want to convey to you that in other regions citizens still have a sense - I cannot count it, I can tell you technically, operationally - that there is a shortage. I hope that this feeling will be improved with these policemen, whom you have moved now. Allow me, therefore, because I think we need to help resolve this issue, first of all, to state my agreement that major police operations are usually done for sightseeing - I have said this before - and do not produce the results that have to be done. You make five or three arrests, two big drug dealers or three big arms traffickers. The next day, they have gone to the interrogator and may have gone to prison, but because these are widespread circuits, they have replaced the head and trade continues unresolved without even being disrupted 24 hours. It doesn't stop the activity at all. So these big businesses, in my opinion, have no particular meaning. But what's wrong with him? And here I would like to put it before you, and I would like to suggest that you adopt it as a doctrine of anti-crime policy. This must be applied in particular - I am not saying that it can be applied in general, it is not appropriate to apply in general, it is not a more general doctrine of anti-crime policy - in areas where there is too much injuriousness and extremity of crime. In other words, there is a very serious disturbance and these regions have actually come into lawlessness. Such areas are the areas we are talking about about, which have certain outbreaks. It does not concern the whole of the Municipality of Acharnon, it does not concern the whole of the Municipality of Phyllis. However, it concerns specific areas in the Municipality of Acharnon, in the Municipality of Phyllis, in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. We know the areas. We've discussed them. What is that dogma? It's the doctrine of zero tolerance to crime. What's zero tolerance for crime? That in order to bring these areas back into conformity and regularity, there must be very strong daily pressure from policing, which is not only about major, that is to say, abuse, drug trafficking, arms trafficking or other serious offences, such as the robbery, and therefore only about abuses of a malicious nature, but also concerns less severe infringements such as petty robberies, such as those of lower infractions, which concern, for example, heavy or heavy activities, the driving of cars in a way or the issues of noise and other such activities or minor incidents, which have physical harm. Now why are you doing this? You do so to show that crime cannot be tolerated in this area, that the state returns, that the law returns, that protects the citizens as a whole, not only to catch the big drug dealer, but that we can restore legality in the region. It is a doctrine that has been debated counter-criminally. It is a doctrine that has been applied in such areas has led to good results. I will tell you that whole regions of big cities that had come into lawlessness, with this doctrine of zero tolerance to crime, have been brought back into legality and have been able to grow. We are proposing this, and I propose it to you. It just needs a great deal of police pressure to implement this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, Mr Voridis, I am pleased at the level of the debate, and I think we can agree that these very difficult problems, which exist in the West Attica, are not solved, as we said before, in one day, they are not only solved by police measures, they want social measures. We cannot let the Roma children go to school and then demand that these children be treated without infringing. They're not doing that, they're irrational. So we need to see a large grid of development and police and control issues, which will address the major problems of the region. It is true that there is the infrastability that has developed through familials, through the districts, through the habits, which are not treated within one day. Zero tolerance works elsewhere, and elsewhere it doesn't work, because everything is played in priorities. If we do not prioritise the big one and what is the operative cause of the smaller problems, we will lose the big one and the small one. But anyway, from somewhere we have to start and it makes sense to start with the big problem, that is, the drugs that don't grow in Attica, they go in and somewhere they're meant. Weapons don't grow in this area from somewhere they come and go and some gangs, some circuits exploit situations and move these huge quantities. So something must be done and the agreement of the political forces and residents under a particular plan is absolutely essential at the moment. We'll do our best. If you wish, I believe that we have made a lot of progress in these steps, but I am not satisfied - and I say this very clearly - and we will step up our efforts in this direction, in which we are calling for the help of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance "Financial Affairs: a) of 24.12.2015 of the Act of Legislation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Economics" (A'182) and b) of the Act of Accession of 30.12.2015 of the Legislative Content of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence and Economic Affairs. (A'184)’. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks ‘State the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport’. And now we are going to the fourth with number 498/8-2-2016 timely question for the first cycle of the MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the prevention and prevention of attacks at PASOK headquarters by groups of "unknown-unknown" cocooners. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really heard your position on anti-crime policy, which you have adopted, and I understand the problems that exist and the fact that it does not respond to any of what we know as a reality in anti-crime policy. And I say that in relation to our question. Since January 31, 2015, the date on which the platoon was removed, which was around, near the central offices of PASOK, twelve molotov attacks have been carried out by the “unknown – unknown” cocoonmen with increasing risk. In these attacks, citizens who live in this region have repeatedly been at risk. They've been in danger of office workers. Also, policemen, who are in the offices for internal security of the building, have also been at risk lately, and MP Yiorgos Arvanitides, who was attacked in front of the PASOK offices with molotov bombs. Fortunately, the one who marked him didn't escape. What I am saying to you, therefore, is this: policing in the area not only of Charilaos Trikoupi but also of the Exarchates in general cannot simply be described as poor, if you like, today. She's nonexistent. And it is nonexistent and it is understood not only by those who work in Harilau Trikoupi, not only by the MPs, but also by the citizens who move and live in this area. On the other hand, I consider the Ministry's inability at the moment to guarantee the good of public security. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, on the one hand you have received letters from PASOK officials, you have received a letter from the President of the Democratic Association, the Prime Minister has received a letter from the Prime Minister and, finally, the Ministry's inertia, when he has found that twelve attacks have been carried out in a few months, is for us not just scandalous, it is dangerous. So you're asking: What are the directives you have given the GATS to prevent and prevent these crimes from happening not only at the PASOK offices but also in the surrounding area? Why is the Greek Police always absent - why do I live in the area and I know if it is present or absent - during the event of these attacks? Finally, how do you intend to react? Don't tell me that the platoon has been placed again, because that's what happened in the last forty-eight hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u25	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I do not know whether we are currently having to discuss the problem or discuss the impressions. What is the case in the area, and what is the case with the storage of PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u27	It's about the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u28	First of all, we should not look at this hypocritically and say that these attacks have taken place lately and have never been made before. Because if I take out the statistics, which I have here, these statistics are talking about a problem that is over time, so we have to deal exactly with such a problem. For some time there was a guard inside and outside the buildings of PASOK. There were patrols of security departments, patrols of the DIA group, other patrols of police forces in the area and when there was tension, the presence of police forces was increasing outside the PASOK building in Charilaos Trikoupi. It is true that these attacks have been presented lately. Has it been asked to increase what? The presence of the police forces. And, lately, we raised her with five policemen, who are outside the building. What else does PASOK have? He's got seventeen police officers on the security of the building. Now, if he doesn't use them and use only one, that's not my issue. It is a matter of my own, as far as the control is concerned, whether these policemen and their chief have kept what they had to keep. From there on, in recent years, the presence of police forces has increased with platoon, although there is another perception that says that as much as police forces are present, it attracts both the attacks to the building and the platoon. There are also people's complaints, who, while staying in the area years, have perhaps made the best comments and statistics on this issue. The cooperation, which exists with PASOK officials and the Secretary General of the Ministry just one or two days before the last attacks, was excellent. Nevertheless, as a lightning inhabitation, it has started not so politically appropriate attributes from the President of PASOK and other officials, who do not show a spirit of cooperation, which must be in place to deal with such situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is exactly what I said earlier: I think you are not aware of what is going on. And I say this: did you realize that on Friday a Member of Parliament, who was attacked by a group of hoodmen outside the offices, was at stake, while there were also citizens passing through? When did you hear that exactly? Because you didn't react. A police officer came from the district police department just to ask if the MP wants to file a complaint. You talked about the five cops. I said earlier that you are not aware of what is happening, because you answered my question, saying that police have been placed on the safety of the building. Internally, Minister, when molotov falls, do you have the impression that the policeman is going to do what is not equipped? That is why I am telling you that there is a problem in the way you are aware of the situation. I read somewhere that you were teaching strategy at the School of Hope. Your strategy for the area, what is it? Let the kids throw molotov? You referred to the residents beforehand. I've been talking to the residents, and I've been talking to the Baltecian shopkeepers. Minister, do you know what they're saying? They don't say the police scare them. The absence of the police keeps scaring them. They also say that people - and you deny it to me, if it is not right - are saying that, because the platoon has been removed from the park, which is still under occupation, Minister, they cannot go home at night. And because you're talking about the general doctrine in the area, I'm going to tell you this: Can a shopmaster close his store at 12 o'clock and leave in Valtech? Do you know that in this area there's been a burn-up of shops and cars with a week-cream frequency? Do you know - so that we don't go too far - that the drug traffic on the pedestrian road between the Municipal Museum of the Theatre and the Law School takes place in the middle of the day and no one can come by there on Sunday morning? And then you'll tell me that there's a perception that if we're nervous about policing, then we have bigger challenges? Question: How do you intend to deal with - I have told you before and you do not answer - the phenomenon of criminal acts in the region, but also in the wider region? I'm not talking about Harilau Trikoupi alone. There you have failed. And it's not just these attacks now. It's 12 numbers. And when people's lives are at risk, then you really understand that it has nothing to do with whether you have failed or failed. It has to do with the risk, which you always allow to increase. That is why, Minister, you have not responded to this, unless there are other agreements with the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u32	I see you're continuing the personal attacks, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u33	It's a political matter, it's not a personal attack. You are a political chief of staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u34	As also, you continue the hints of agreements, and you know today's government's policy on order and security and my own policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u35	I don't know her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u36	First of all, I don't expect him to score me for my course - whatever course I had in my life - so easily someone. From there on, as far as PASOK security is concerned, the platoon, which exists, provides security. Security has increased. Obviously, safety increases, when risks are increased, and obviously the presence of police forces in all places at greater intensity cannot be continued. But do you know something because you're causing me? I'll talk to you with numbers. Do you know how many policemen the security of former PASOK politicians employ? One hundred three plus thirteen cars. The New Democracy is sixty-one. So let us not talk about numbers, because the figures and what we will do when it comes to reallocating powers, that - let me - we are studying it at the moment and announce it in the House when it needs to be done. So - I am recapitulating - safety is sufficient at the moment, the risks in the region are known and let us not hypocritically tackle the issue. If you want, we should discuss dealing with the real problems of both the Exarchates and the West Attica and the other areas with a stricken violation, but not pretending that the problems have now arisen and were not yesterday. So we've increased security measures in PASOK, we've increased security issues, surveillance and security in the area. We are trying to find solutions, but we are trying to redeploy the forces, which are being broken down into prisons, for which there is no reason to guard, as I told you before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the debate of the third under number 499/8-2-2016 on a topical question from the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassidiari to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about - within introductorys - 'the scandalous photographic contest and the waste of 14,145,000 euros for homes of illegal immigrants'. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u38	That is the essence of the problem, it is not in introductory terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u39	I read exactly how the question is written.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u40	Yeah, I know. You do not want illegal immigrants to be called refugees, tourists. Nevertheless, these people, the hundreds of thousands who invade the country are illegal immigrants, have entered the country illegally. Now we're going to the point. I don't live with the guys. The issue I raise today concerns centres of illegal immigrants, not hot spots. Let's speak the Greek language. These are centres that promote illegality, because it is illegal for a foreign citizen to invade Greek territory without the necessary documents. On 1 February, therefore, we admirably saw a decision to post a "DENMARK" in which another EUR 14 145 000 - we are talking about an astronomical figure, while the Greek citizen is literally falling while the government is trying to draw the blood of citizens through taxation - only homes in the centres of illegal immigrants. And I happened to watch TV and some pictures where these houses would be, with some luxurious showers for all of them - I repeat - entering Greece illegally and not for Greek citizens who fall, who are homeless, who are facing the sad consequences of the memorandum, which is currently imposed by the Left, by SYRIZA and the ANEL. The decision on this competition was posted on February 1st, the competition begins on February 2nd at 9 a.m. and ends this afternoon. It is a classic Paso-party tactic with photographic competitions that were all set from the outset and gave a minimum of hours to those who would like to take part in the competitions in question. It is no coincidence that the Minister to whom we asked the question, Spirtz, is of pasical origin, as is Mr Sguridis, who is here to answer. Although they participate in the SYRIZA - ANEL government, they both come from PASOK. So the tactics are classic. These are "photographics" contests that last a few hours, several million million-dollar works, and in this case, crime is not the "photographic" contest, it is not all overnight that this money, this astronomical amount goes for the housing of illegal immigrants, for luxury, I would say, home of illegal immigrants. There are many Greeks who do not have such luxurious showers in their homes. The questions are, therefore, specifically: who is taking over, what company, which consortium is taking over this project, who pays this astronomical sum? Because it may be the European Union and its funds behind this case, but we demand that this money go for the Greeks who fall, and not for illegal immigrants. When did the competent bodies catch up in one day and make all of them all, open competitions, make public decisions, within a few hours they took the files, studied them and evaluated them, and with what right does the state ultimately waste such a sum at the time when it draws the blood of Greek citizens through taxation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Sgurides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Cassidy for giving the opportunity, with his question, to lift shadows from a very clear competitive process. Secondly, I want to assure him - he and the House and the Greek citizens - that the state budget is not being charged and that the money we have received, in fact, cannot be spent for any other purpose. But let's take things in turn. Following the European Union Summit's decision in December 2015 and the European Commission's report on refugee flows in December 2015, on 15th of the month, to the European Parliament and to the Council, our country was obliged to build five economic migrants and refugees centres, which are in Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos hosting centres in northern and southern Greece. Due to the pressing construction time and given the malicious attack the country - and you see it - by the international media and also by the circles of the European Union - the whole issue required special legislative arrangements and specific operational management. Therefore, a legislative act was adopted on 30 December 2015, which confers the right, by way of derogation from the provisions in force, to apply once a negotiated procedure without publication of a notice of invitation to tender. On the 15th-1-2016 the CYA commissioned this task to the Natural Disaster Restoration Department - for earthquakes, floods, for fires. The project was commissioned to this Service, which, on 20-1-2016, accepted a request from the Ministry of Interior, from the Office's Directorate for the first reception of refugees, in order to have two hundred fifty homes, who will surrender in the first days of February and nine hundred houses to be delivered at the end of February 2016. This request was submitted on 20 January and therefore this work had to be delivered. In itself, this request led to a competition between construction companies with specific objects and specific production possibilities, since at the end of the tender 20% of the project had to be delivered and at the end of February the rest of the project had to be completed. Furthermore, these companies had to be registered in the electronic register and have an electronic signature. At the same time, the habitats were specific dimensions, type and specification, and they should have been prepared. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] So on 21 January the procedure was carried out, which had to be found through the registers. The companies were seven the number. We also asked the Single Public Contract Authority on 25-1-2016 to approve our appeal without a public notice for this tender...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u43	You've got a second, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u44	I don't want a dentist. It would be better if the time were uniform, because I think this explanation should be clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u45	You don't want her? Good. No problem, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u46	So since this process took place, we have had the seven companies. This Single Public Procurement Authority has replied to us that once there is an act of legislative content, it does not have to give its approval. Also, the fact that it was posted in "GENERAL", I can tell you that it was mostly. On the 27th of January, the IAEA proceeded with the negotiation of the online tender and with the invitation of these seven companies that were ‘CLASSART’, ‘BUILDING S.A.’, ‘NEXTOR S.A.’, ‘EUROPEOPORIC S.A.’, ‘INTRAKAT’, ‘NEOKAT’ and ‘BIMECKAT’. On 31-1-2016, the army undertakes to be able to manage and manage the reception areas of these houses. On 2 February only four companies, namely ‘CLASSART’, ‘EUROTRAKAT’, ‘NEOKAT’ and ‘NEOKAT’, were submitted tenders on 2 February. The homes that could be delivered were only seventy - nine hundred. For the rest, a competition will be reopened because there are no possibilities to build the rest in the time allowed. What was achieved through the online competition was the following. While the price was 10,000 euros, the negotiation that took place brought home costs down to 9.650 euros. Inside that would have been air conditioner and bars. In a similar competition in 2008, without bars and without air conditioning, these houses cost 9,480 euros. This means that after eight years, a price has been achieved which is beneficial to the Greek State. I will close by telling you that just yesterday the answer from the European Asylum Commission on Immigrants and Refugees, which approves the sum of EUR 12 765 000 - because VAT, as you know, is a reward - and that money is clearly from this European Fund. I believe that this process has actually been done in such a way, clean and quick way, for which you should congratulate the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u48	Please be careful about the words I'm going to read. "In any towns where reception centres were created, the migration flow on the other hand immediately increased." This is what Kammenos said before the elections and immediately after the elections you come and fill up with illegal immigration centres throughout the country. Local societies boil. Thousands of citizens are currently gathering in Kos. I'm tabling some pictures for the Minutes. They're thousands of residents. All of Kos is in the leg, protests. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kassidiaris, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned images, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not all of them are the ones that Kammen lied about and mocked them that they're renting chargers to Pakistanis for their 10 euro cell phones! It is the whole local society in Kos, the whole local society in Sindo, the same in Perama. The whole world has risen up against this misery and the coup d'état of the memorandum responds with MATs and sends the MATs and opens the heads of old Greek citizens for the hot spots you say. It seems that Kammenos has confused them with the hot dogs, which are devouring with bulimia and has turned the Greek territory into a host center for illegal immigrants! And the Minister spoke here about dures, air conditions and bars. What Greek home today is entering air condition, mind you? And if this money is given by the European Union, you should know that the European Union is giving Turkey EUR 9 billion. These 9 billion people Turkey gets to spend millions of illegal immigrants in Greece! And here you throw something "fly" and you have turned the Greek into a minority within this country. And worse, at the same time on this issue of illegal immigration, the ferry door opens and Turkish forces enter the Aegean Sea. Why the Greek Government today - why you do not serve or represent Greece - to enter the Aegean on the issue of illegal immigration, a force of natoian power that today runs German and will soon run Turkish vessels, is a national betrayal! You're committing these crimes. One day you said that naval ships would not enter, except in Turkish territorial waters and the next day you did "columba" and Kammenos accepted NATO to oversee Greek territorial waters. We have told you since the first day that the issue of illegal immigration is not solved by building centres. It solves the Armed Forces! The Armed Forces of Greece must be at the border and guard them. Tsipras came out and said that "there are no borders at sea" and one month later he said to NATO "Come and enter the Greek border". And the Turks celebrated, as they celebrated at the time that Tsipras and Davutoglou had gone to the court and had worn him a scarf and foolish laughed and the Turks said "happily that's this fool and we'll step foot into Greece". And this crime is being committed today! Up to Turkish canalarch you have put in, so that the Turkish propaganda can be made easier in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u49	Your time's up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u50	The Greek citizens, however, have turned their backs on this government, which distributes unspeakably millions of air condition to illegal immigrants. They've turned the back on this treachery partnership that will soon collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Cassidy, what you said is out of the question. None of this applies. Greece is a country that itself preserves its own borders. And this government will do everything in its power to safeguard the country's borders. I close by telling you this: You need to know that the history of the world has changed from migratory flows. So we are faced with such a crucial issue, which we should manage with a clean mind and soberness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u53	Did you see what Zybert, Merkel's representative, said? He talked about NATO waters!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u54	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u55	When we talk about national treason, I have the floor, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u56	Get out there and calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u57	You guys get out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u58	Can I go out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u59	You guys get out! When it comes to national treason, we have the floor and we will denounce this disgrace! You guys get out! And the MATs from Kos and the citizens bring them in to the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u60	We continue with the timely question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u61	Can I go out, MP elected? The people put us in here. No one's gonna tell us to get out! The MATs you sent Kos to bring them in here if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u62	The question's over, do you understand? Get out there and calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u63	Be careful what you're saying! This is where the people, the Greek voters, brought us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u64	The question's over. Get out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u65	Come out, you and the traitors, Tsipras and Kammenos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u66	We continue with the fifth under No. 503/8-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the situation of the workers in the cleaning of the car parks of the company "Road Transport S.A.". (OECD) of the OSCE group. The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will answer Mr Sguridis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. ‘LINK UP’ has undertaken the cleanliness of the OSCE OSCE OSCE OSCE train stations. With terrorism against workers, it systematically violates their rights. He's been late to pay the prizes, still since 2013. Workers are unpaid from three to nine months, systematically no gifts, allowances and, of course, overtime are paid, while whenever the company pays for extortion workers to sign that they get far greater amounts than they actually receive. Moreover, working conditions are bad. There are no minimum hygiene and safety measures. The company does not provide workers with clothes and work shoes or cleaning materials, so that they can be purchased from their pockets. The employees of the company who are in mobilisations to claim their employees, permanent and stable work, improve working conditions and fight redundancies, face terrorism and the threat of dismissal. In fact, the company tried to set up a strike mechanism, bringing workers from other trains to clean the buses to the trains. The responsibilities are enormous. The policy that has been in existence so far continues in relation to the privatisations in the public sector and in particular cleansing, which is entrusted to contractors, with all these consequences for the workers, which are well known and are not present. Complaints are daily. This is the responsibility of the OSH administration, as is the previous ones the contractor tolerates to act inconsistently against workers. We ask, Minister, what measures will you take to prevent the contractor from making any redundancies of a worker or other harmful change for the workers, from declaring the contractor to be inferior to the contractor's administration and immediately starting the actions of the OSH administration to sign contracts of work for indefinite duration with the workers, with full employment and insurance rights, and to pay directly to all workers, on the basis of the sectoral contract of employment, as well as allowances, gifts, nights and holidays due, to stop employers' terrorism at the expense of workers? On that we would like your answers, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Sgurides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr Kathotis. Mr President, ‘LINK UP’, the cleaning company of the buildings of the OSCE and the buses, participated in the tender that took place in January 2013. After objections and decision of the Court of Auditors, which came out on 4-12-2014, i.e. after almost two years, it took the cleanliness for two years, from 30-11-2014 to 30-11-2016. Already in eight months, her contract expires. Many checks were carried out by the APRC and only in all the controls it was found that it had to pay fines. As you know, the APR is the independent audit body of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. We have also recently sent the APRC back to the entire company after the dispute, and we are waiting for the results of this check. Whenever we were asked by the Ministry and also by the companies - OSCE and OSCE - that is, the labour inspectors, the judicial authorities, to provide information, to carry out checks, but until now no fines have been imposed on this company. For the monthly payment of the contract price every time the company has to bring us all the supporting documents of insurance, payments and employees and then it is paid. Moreover, after the dispute ended, none of the cleaners have been fired by that company. I think that we will be very strict on this, because we will not allow a conflict between the workers and the company, that conflict will lead to workers being made redundant. As far as your question is concerned, there will be permanent cleaners, indefinitely, that the OSCE and OSCE do not have such positions. As a result, these recruitments cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The Workshop of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and their students and educational attendance from the 1st Elementary School of New Faliro. We welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u71	Minister, this is not the first time questions have come here about the cleanliness of public bodies and the role of contractors in them. Complaints are too many. The government itself considers that contractors cost much more than if they were cleaning houses. It is not too often that the Minister for Labour, on several occasions and with evidence he brings here, says that the cost of the contractor is much higher. OSH isn't currently a business. It worked many years and had cleaners in the past few years. The contractors are a fruit which has then come - for several years, of course - and all public services have carried this work to the contractors, who are known to exercise terrorism and violate everything. Haven't you, Minister, heard that with the pressure of dismissal they put on the worker to sign that he received amounts that didn't correspond to what he actually got? First time you hear it? So, you're saying it brings you evidence, and the company then clears him, gives him the contractor that's agreed. How do you see that, in fact, they have given this money that workers are entitled to? How do you find out what you're saying is all right? You say that once there is a fine from the ADR to the particular contractor. Where do these complaints come from? They come from both the workers and the workers of the OSCE, Mr. Undersecretary. The OSCE unions, which are next to the workers, are confronted and confronted with the contractor, because they cannot close their eyes when he applies such a practice to workers working in the same space as OSCE drivers and other OSCE workers. So we cannot bring evidence here that the contractor is fine, that once the poor man has committed a violation! So you should protect workers here, who are many and work under terrible working conditions. And we think that both the OSCE and the Ministry should be seized so that the contractor can also comply with the minimum requirements laid down by collective agreements and by insurance legislation. He can't break them, Mr. Undersecretary. You must give one such message and not another, which you say here is doing just fine. The message should be that it cannot be invaded and cannot press for workers to sign that they are getting money while they are not actually getting it. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u73	I told you, Mr Katsotis, that since 2 February 2016 - today we have 11 February - we have made a document and we are calling on the SEA to carry out a holistic review. That means we are waiting for his report. When the APRC report comes and finds these irregularities, if you wish, or if the company fails to comply with its obligations towards workers, legal fines, as they have been recorded in the contract that has been signed, will be imposed. I told you that in eight months the contract is over. But what I want to stress is that no one was fired. That was something we were expecting. With regard to these workers, who have claimed a number of recruits, who have been late to receive, we waited for the company to pay them - and paid them - and at the same time to see their behaviour. But the behavior was not to let anyone get fired. That is something I must say. If we were to observe that, there would certainly be a corresponding approach from us. On this basis, I believe that the company will comply, because it will no longer be taken to have the workers unpaid. You will now tell me how the supporting documents are handled. Controlled by the OSCE Accounting Office and the OSCE Accounting Office. It must bear certain specific supporting documents, which must comply with the convention and the laws. If these documents don't come, the company doesn't get the monthly contract price. I believe that after what has happened, the contractor will be very careful with the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Halandri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that the sixth Question No 497/8-2-2016 by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, concerning health problems, serious deficiencies in the Intensive Treatment Units (IMUs) and the development of the National Transplant Organisation (EMO) is not being discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. An eighth question will be discussed under number 494/5-2-2016 for the First Cycle of the Member of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios Katsiantonis to the Minister of Finance on the freezing of depositors' assets in foreign banks. Here, Mr Katsiantoni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. According to a report, the possibility of binding depositors' assets to foreign banks is mentioned, known as Borgians list, on the order of the financial prosecutors, in order to identify tax-free and "black" money and collect the Greek State about 80 to 100m euros. I can only congratulate you on your efforts to limit tax evasion, but serious questions arise as to the process of committing these assets. In particular, as regards the measure of the freezing of bank accounts and of any kind of assets, in order not to involve a serious interference with the constitutionally protected goods of the controlled person, and in particular with its rights and economic and professional freedom, and not to run counter to the provisions of Articles 5(1) and 17(1) and 25(1) of the Constitution and of the First Additional Protocol of the ECHR ratified by the Law. 53/1974/A.256, as the Council of State has already held, the conditions for imposing the freezing of assets must be clearly, objectively and justified, and should be avoided from using vague concepts, leaving a wide margin of discretion to the competent institutions. Consequently, are the conditions for the enforcement and the lifting of the asset commitment clear and objective by providing for procedural guarantees commensurate with the seriousness of the measure taken in order to comply with the principle of proportionality? Finally, what steps have you taken to control the Lagard list, which includes much larger amounts and persons of great importance, which should give an example to the Greek people? Do you ultimately seek to expose public persons who continue to evade taxes and seek to silence the financially powerful, by deleting their debts to the detriment of the average citizen? In the last part of the question, Minister, there is a question which the citizens, if you ask the majority, always have in their minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u76	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, I will start with the good news of the day. In the good news of the day, we will not only make commitments to foreign banks, not only will we make commitments to domestic banks, but we will also make commitments to any assets we find, for people who are involved in cases of tax evasion and smuggling. We're giving a big fight to the Treasury. At the same time that we have to keep in place tax provisions that do not share the tax burden fairly and proportionately, it is not possible to exhaust the existing institutional framework - we have not changed it - and to do anything to pay for those who - through tax evasion, smuggling, corruption - did not pay what they have to pay to the Greek State. It is therefore clear that bank deposit commitments will be made both in Greece and abroad for these cases. And by means of enforcement measures, there will be commitments and assets of those involved in these cases. Let me make it clear, of course, from the outset - because I understand the legal issue you raise - that under no circumstances do we ignore the presumption of innocence, that is, we take the presumption of innocence for granted. Every one who's on the Borgianne list or the Lagard list or any other list doesn't automatically mean he's guilty. He's just being investigated by the services, just like we have to do in all these crimes. In relation to the application of this measure, however, I would like to assure you that the implementation of this measure in the Lagard list and in the Borgians list is done with the supervision of the financial prosecutors, because they are public prosecutors and the other one. So you don't have any legal concerns. I am adequacyful to the financial prosecutors, as they have done so far, so in this matter they commit assets, bank accounts or anything else, when the conditions laid down by the law are fulfilled. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Of course, as far as the legal issue is concerned, you should be answered by the Justice Minister. But as far as the issue of the Ministry of Finance is concerned, I would like to say quite clearly that we are doing everything possible to ensure that the guilty are paid, that the checks are carried out, but of course that all procedures within the framework of the law are in progress. And the good news is, in many cases like the last press employee, we didn't have to make an account commitment. For some cases I am also being informed by the press, because I do not have access - quite rightly I do not have access - to these issues. The particular citizen, who was in this case, found the "incomplete" sum of EUR 3.3 million and went and filed it. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. And it is an answer to any political parties or politicians who rushed the previous time to embrace and protect him. Because I cannot understand how a tax evasion officer goes and pays 3.3m euros and some political parties or politicians in here, they still think that he is not involved in any tax evasion case. Of course there is the presumption of innocence, but to accept the work of independent Greek justice, which is doing its job very well in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Katsiantoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. You've covered me 100%. And we will see, of course, whether what you have said will apply under European law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. I don't think, Minister, that there is a reason for secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u81	I need two minutes, Mr President, to speak. I won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u82	You overcovered my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u83	There's a point in his question that I didn't have the time to answer. That's why I'm answering now. In the second part of the question as to whether we are finally avoiding public exposure, I would like to say to you that we are not avoiding revealing any public person. Just as I have explained many times, due to tax confidentiality, it cannot - and it must not be possible - for the Ministry of Finance to reveal who is involved in tax evasion cases. This is a matter of other services. We must not do that. And you can be certain, Mr Papoutsis, that there is no way that these issues will not be silenced nor that the financial strong enough to see their debts being erased. The aim is the large cases of tax evasion, as are the financially powerful. And it is at the forefront, because all in previous years they have enjoyed 'caution' from the services to the discharge and deletion of debts with some scandalous amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u86	Excuse me, Mr. Colleague, but will you have a tritology?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u87	I would like to say something about the last answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u88	I must admit that the responsibility for the fact that you are on tritology lies with the Minister. There was no reason. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u89	Minister, because of the fact that my question was about debt evasion, I was informed today about something I would like to ask you about. So, as far as I know, you have deleted a debt of EUR 1.5 million to a very well-known businessman, who also happens to be a ruler. That is why the last part of my question was on this issue. I don't know if it's true. It was a piece of information that was given to me before I entered the House. I was informed that the debt that was written off to this businessman was in the range of 1.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u91	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u92	There is no case for debt write-offs, because if we were to write off debts, we would write off the debts of the nursing homes and welfare structures for refugees. The "World Ark", for a building in Konitsa in which he wants to have little orphan children, owes 15,000 euros HISHA and he can't pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u93	Good, Minister, you have not deleted the debt! You've been blaming it unequivocally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u94	There's no way we can erase...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u95	We're done, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u96	I shall conclude, Mr President. There is no way we can delete debt or have cancelled debt to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much. The seventh under number 502/2-2-2016 top-level question by MP 2 in the Greek Independent Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the imposition of fines for the National Broadcasting Council (ESP) in the media, is not discussed in consultation with the Member with the Minister. It will therefore be discussed the first under number 496/8-2-2016 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the incorrect mobilisation of payroll of teachers in second opportunity schools. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the question has already been raised. Indeed, it was also a matter of some publications, which referred to this question as a opposition, because I think it reflects a healthy one, in my opinion, on the mobilisation of unemployed teachers who are employed in second-rate schools. Here I would like to point out that these schools are public schools, they provide a high school degree to adults from eighteen years or more, which is even of formal education. One of the basic principles of these schools is the employment of qualified teachers, capable of responding to the complexity of the tasks of teaching adults and being able to implement a flexible training programme, which is also adapted to the needs of trainees. My concern therefore lies in streamlining the molecules criteria, which, in my opinion, should be based on the particular educational needs and demands of these schools and not, of course, on the abolition of the unemployment premium, which particularly affects young graduates from these educational schools. I would like to give an example here. A candidate teacher, unemployed two years and with his specialty degree, without having a pre-service to adult education, gathers more molecules than someone with a postgraduate qualification, a doctoral qualification in the subject matter of his qualification and the maximum number of hours of pre-service and training hours in the PBSs. Therefore, in the recruitment notice, particular attention should, of course, be paid to the criteria of the candidates for working hours, but I think that in some other way the other criteria which I have already mentioned should be weighted. I continue, Minister, with the consideration of these criteria... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. ...considering that this could create a problem for teachers who possess these necessary and essential qualifications and the institution itself. Because we have said that here we need educational staff with experience and knowledge in education, which must promote experiential learning and indeed by applying specialized teaching techniques and improvised teaching materials. Moreover, training graduates from these schools can then enable them to join the labour market and thus help to combat unemployment and facilitate their work integration. I would therefore ask you if you intend to review these molecules criteria and give more emphasis to either pre-service or formal qualifications in a structure with increased demands, as I have said. I reserve the second question in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u99	The Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question you have tabled refers to a fact which we have to admit is not right. The decision you invoke has never been implemented, has never been activated. The molecules criteria have not changed. This was, of course, not because there was another decision but because the process of working for the second chance schools this year - for reasons not related to the Ministry, the political leadership - has been delayed. The inclusion of the second chance schools in the operational programme was only on 21-12-2015 by the managing authority. The deadlines shall be suffocating. A call for interest in the selection of adult trainers was therefore impossible. I should like to point out that if there were such an invitation, we would have more than five thousand interested parties and the results would have been in three months. That means we wouldn't have second chance schools this year. So, in fact, this ministerial decision was not implemented. We intend, by sharing what you have said before, to change this ministerial decision so that capacity and training can be emphasised on adult education, on essential and formal qualifications and on unemployment, which is a serious social issue, can only be reduced to 20% of the planned molecules. At this point I would like to stress that the second opportunity schools - which all of us can express in importance here - are not so much schools offering school knowledge in themselves, but are more seeking to teach young people to regain self-confidence and self-esteem. And the work carried out - with small financial instruments is the truth - is very important. I shall refer to a school of special importance, the second opportunity school of Korydalos prisons. I am referring to this because a week ago the founder, his inspirationist, died, a very important person in the field of adult education, George Zuganelis. In his exotic sequence, we heard the messages of the youth from the Korydalou Prisons about the second chance school, which they described as a paradise in a hell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u101	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I think that is also an issue that we can include in the context of the national dialogue that has already started on education - I also know your sensitivity and interest - precisely so that we can see the general upgrading of these schools and of the school in general, and indeed their gradual integration into state formal education. Because until now these programmes have been financed by the NSRP with permanent training staff, stable rules and operating frameworks, as well as free training for trainers. In addition, I would like to ask you about the need to renew the payroll contracts for one more year, as it would be a step in the right direction, as well as about their care for their stable and without delay, since they too, as you know, live from this money and have a very great need.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. As I said, recruitment this year of educators will take place from last year's tables, for the sake of time saving. We are moving on to the adoption of a new ministerial decision and obviously in this process we are dealing with all the issues that you have mentioned. However, we want the second chance schools to start in time rather than the only five that ends the school period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister, for using time. The second under number 501/8-2-2016, the second question of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Health, concerning the serious deficiencies of high-cost medicines for cancer patients in Drama, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The third, with number 504/8-2-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B' Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the payment of redundant workers to the bankrupt companies "FILKERAM - JOHNSON BIOMAN KIRAMANIAS S.A." and its subsidiary "BIOMHANIKHANIKI METAL S.A." in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We enter the tenth under number 467/1-2-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the possibility of leaving our country from the Schengen area. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your presence. The question has been tabled a little earlier. We've had other developments, I know, so I'm not going to read the exact question. Nevertheless, one of the main questions was the possible exit from Schengen, both with statements by European officials and a statement by our honourable Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos. From there on there there is a concern of the world, in relation to the last statements made by both Mr Drasakis and you in your interview with Mr. Hatzinikolaou, whether they will be locked in forty to fifty thousand atypical immigrants or refugees in our country. I'll go to the questions. What is the pace of the hot spot program of the host countries? Will Greece be able to complete it within the timetable and the extension we have taken? I have corrected the text because we have been given an extension. Are we finally in danger of getting out of Schengen? He's almost answered. But I would like it to be recorded. Is there any provision for what will happen if this scenario takes place? How will the possibility of emigration to our country in a difficult economic period for our country be addressed? I also note, if I have another twenty seconds, that we have seen in the last few days - after the revelations of Mr Erdogan's conversation with Mr Tusk and Mr Juncker - a huge, inhuman extortion on the part of Mr Erdogan to the official institutions of the European Union for money and not just money. He said: "You want 15 thousand children dead? I'll take them with coaches, you can't control me. Give me money. Greece has taken 400 billion. Why don't I take too?" And we see that this pressure is being brought to Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like - with the Bureau's permission and yours - to ask if we have currently put something on the table together with the negotiation and with the financial problems we have with immigration, so that we can obtain money and get more of the money that we have already planned for us. I'll tell my denture. Because yesterday with Mr Stournara, in my report on the Monetary Fund, it says that Greece will have an exit of 700 million this year, Germany of 10 billion for the management and integration of migrants. I would like us to have a more comprehensive picture in order to reassure the world, because we are in a difficult period of negotiation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr Muzalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your question is also relevant to Mr Papatheodorou's question. It is well known - and from what I have officially said - the facts in relation to the report to the College of Commissioners. We had said then that the new reports would be milder and better. Yesterday we had a new report, where the huge progress our country has made is taking place. I tell you that with their figures - ours are better - they note that fingerprints, for example, have an 8% increase at the end of September, to 78% in January 2016. They note that the hot spots, the identification centres, proceed quickly and note a number of improvements, including the reception capacity in Greece, compared to the twenty thousand positions we have undertaken to create. The report notes that we have, I would remind you, the twenty thousand rent and subsidized rooms, plus ten thousand posts in mainland Greece, plus about seven thousand posts, a total of seventeen thousand sixteen thousand sixteen hundred eight. Others are missing, but as you know, we're starting to build them. He says that we have made a great deal of progress on the issue of forced returns and we have a great deal of progress on the issue of voluntary returns. I would like here to tell you that the delays we have had involve a part of governmental responsibility, which we accept, and I am indeed willing to charge this. But you should know - and I am sure you know - the difficulties of this project. For example, building the identification centre is a conversation that is very simple but building it at the same time that you have five thousand refugees and immigrants, whom you need to identify to leave, so that the other four thousand the next day, you understand that it was something that was an objective difficulty. In Moria in Lesvos, I want to tell you, it was twice as ready the center and once it was ready, seventeen thousand refugees and immigrants came in at the weekend and collapsed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We have therefore had difficulties concerning the permanent difficulty and the permanent risk of refugee and immigration. Mr President, I'm sorry, I have no experience. I don't know the time. How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u109	Time's up. But you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u110	Good. Let me say, is there a problem of leaving Schengen? With this word and this sentence, no. Legally, you don't know that much better than I do. What are we talking about under this risk, in my view, not necessarily a bad option, to leave Schengen? The other countries should close the border. Who are the other countries? We with the only non-Schengen country that we are bordering are Skopje. There's this danger. That is why our government is preparing itself in two ways. One way is to be okay with our obligations, as you rightly point out in your question. The other way is to prepare for this crisis, but on the basis of international studies, rather than on the basis of a tampering of mine, it will be managed. In other words, there will be tens of thousands left, who will not have had time to cross the border, and we will be able to manage them. I would also like to point out here that the government is very helpful in its positive attitude to the refugee situation that holds all parties in the opposition of the democratic arch, despite their criticism - opposition. But I must admit that it is a great help I take with me abroad. You know, it's different to say that this is the SYRIZA position, and it's different to say that this is the SYRIZA position, it's PASOK, it's New Democracy, it's from the river, it's from independent MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u112	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. It is quite reassuring, both for us MPs and for Greek citizens, and it must be reassuring at least today, because it is the beginning - if you like - or the precursors of the tourist season for our country, the largest industry of which is tourism. Last night, however, I read something disturbing and I would like to take it to you, because I do not know if you know that. The four countries - Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland - raised an issue. Mr Tusk accepted it by blackmailing them that if the wave of immigrants in my country jeopardises my social cohesion and my health care system and my social benefits to my citizens and the immigrants who come, then I retain the right for four years, not to give these privileges to Europeans who come to work in my country. In other words, if a Greek wants to go to the Czech Republic, while the Czech Republic has made a report beforehand, that the social security system with the foreigners it has taken does not lift them for four years, then the Greek or Italian who goes to work in the Czech Republic will have no benefits for the country for four years. This is worrying - I would say - and it brings Europe before a division and a distinction between the citizens of Europe, which should not exist. The European citizen has learned and knows that he is moving, working and enjoying the privileges, such as everyone within the euro area and the European Union. That's a worrying thing. A second thing I would also like to point out and ask, is for relocation. Last year the debate took place on the sixty thousand, who had to be absorbed by the 'friends' countries, who accepted or accepted at least a few of the immigrants in the European Union, the last number I knew was four hundred ninety-seven out of sixty thousand. I'd like a briefing. Are they being absorbed? They're going? Do you accept? 30 went to Luxembourg. It is worrying because, unfortunately, we read it in the media - of course, we must not believe it all - and we must ask. Because if all these people come as a host country in Greece, we have to make another shot. I come back to my original question, if there's a financial plan. If the International Monetary Fund tells me in the report 0.7% of GDP and goes to 700 million, with a question mark for 2016, then I have to find this money somewhere. Should I claim more? Should all the Members - and you quite rightly said so - have a voice to claim money in order to be able to cope with the crisis, build the reception centres in good time, adapt our infrastructure, help the health and care system, have transport? They are costs of relocation, transport, air conditioning, nutrition, care. It's a lot of expense, and I'm afraid we'll meet in a dead end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. The Greek Parliament gives you the opportunity and we say it publicly to register in the Minutes. We're all with you. Not with you, but with the government, because it's a national matter. We all have to deal with it together. Be sure to support you, as long as we know what we all have to do together. And money to ask for political pressure and to be objective and fair to everyone, because summer is coming and thankfully it has made us a good time for other reasons this year, but perhaps, unfortunately, they will have to start new waves of immigrants or refugees from Syria and others and we should manage them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Minister, do you want to move on to Mr Papatheodorou's question and answer a whole question? What makes it easy for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u114	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u115	Do you want to answer Mr. Kammenos or do you want to go to Mr. Papatheodorou who has a relevant question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u116	As you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u117	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u118	I would like to say to Mr Kammenos that I very much appreciate the fact that the question he asked was essential and it was not an impression question or one of these 'explosives'. I should like to pay tribute to many of the comments he makes. Let me make sure we've submitted a new Needs assessment. Our expenses are calculated more than Mr Stournara's, which gives more weight to your question. We think they're more than $1 billion. The money we have received but have not yet been disbursed - not on our own responsibility - arrives, for example, to build the hot spots and the relocation camps and operate six - seven months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u119	I'm sorry, is the Minister talking underneath?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u120	Please, we have a conversation here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u121	It was for a few seconds, Mr Constantinople, because Mr Papatheodorou's question follows. Minister, please rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u122	Look, if anything happened, which is inappropriate, it's because I'm ignorant of some things. It is clear that I only respect Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u123	All right, Minister. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u124	So I was saying that we have submitted new applications. Unfortunately, bureaucracy bears very well both in our country and in the European Union. We are pushing too hard in this direction. I dare tell you, I have a fear within me that the difficulties of making money will be less, the more they try to throw us. You understand what I mean. In other words, if they try to create a situation in which a Belgian colleague of mine said about a camp - let us say - four hundred thousand people - which is unacceptable - I think they will have no problem giving money over there. The government, of course, and I think the opposition parties will oppose this. It is an issue that we are fighting, Mr Kammene, with dignity and unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u125	All you need to do is contact all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u126	Mr Kammene, there is a substantive debate, I must confess. It will now be discussed in the ninth under No 459/28-1-2016 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK DMAR Mr Theodore Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the failure to implement the commitments to the refugee question by the Government and the risk of leaving the country from Schengen. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will not share the optimism of Mr Kammenos. Yesterday you said that there is a risk that the borders would be closed. Mr. Drasakis said the same. Indeed, the situation in Greece is getting worse all the time - you know it better than we do - and the risk of European isolation is now visible. Tomorrow, the Prime Minister will go to the summit, trapped by his government's delays from the inertia of months and by the difficulties that the government itself had, to understand from the outset the problem. And I think - because you mentioned this earlier - that you have taken into account the recommendations of the European Commission's progress report published. I'd tell you they're not all positive. There are delays, there is a step forward, but we are now on the limit of European isolation. We are now in a policy which has shown so far the dismay of the SYRIZA Government to implement a programme for the management of migration flows. On the other hand, I would say that the worrying thing about me, Mr Minister, is that today, we also have NATO's participation, which the government has been dealing with so far with an awkward silence. We don't know exactly what her position is. That is, for the first time in Europe, the militarisation of the management of mixed migration flows, and that is very important. And behind this militarisation, perhaps, Minister, the prospect of UN membership should also come. Do you know which countries the UN is participating in the management of humanitarian crises, Mr President and Minister? It does not participate in European countries. It participates - you know it better than your experience - in Somalia, in the African countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So here we have to say something else. Explain to us. Why did the European Union itself have to call for the Greek Army to be involved in the management of this crisis? Because he saw that things didn't go any further. Politics, besides - if you like - the obsession and ours that this is a European and national issue and not a party controversy, is offered for something that we wish to highlight for the multicultural time. It's wrong the policy you're following. And it is wrong for policy and we will pay it very expensive in the future. It's wrong how to communicate with the European Union. It's the wrong way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have a denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u129	I shall now close my sentence. Minister, we believe that it is the wrong way of dealing with Greece's participation in the process of European immigration and refugee policy. That's what we're paying today and it's time to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u131	I would be happy if, in a positive direction, there were a suggestion that the attitude that our Government is following in the European Union in particular should be changed. The attitude that our Government is following in the European Union is a stand of tough, compact, negotiation, which is based on real events and not on our imaginary size. We've got defeats, and we've got major wins. The second thing I want to say is that the European Union has not asked for the military to be involved. The military's involvement has been from the beginning. Just now the Army has undertaken to proceed with the works, as the margins have tightened. There are many objective reasons for the delay. However - as I said - there is obviously also a small part, in my view, of government responsibility. It is clear that the report is not all positive. However - you know - it's also the eye that sees things. Because what I said is that this report is all more positive than the previous one and that it sees and records the enormous steps that have been taken, something that we had said and when the previous 'bad' report came out. It is clear that it has been awkward in managing flows across Europe. The first European meeting that began to suspect the refugee was held on 27 April. In June the first measures were taken and the first proposals made. It's not our country that was embarrassed. It wasn't our country that didn't predict. No one predicted. Nor do the United Nations, which - you probably do not have the experience, I always give you a good option - is always involved in these crises all over the world. He's involved in Germany, he's involved in Romania, he's involved everywhere. There is no such country as there is no such problem and UNHCR does not act. Anyway, I don't think I have anything to add. It's obvious I didn't cover you. I would be delighted, however, to make a suggestion to me to improve the attitude to be taken in our claims in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor. Please, just like the Minister in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u133	Sure. To conclude, this report is better than the previous one. It does not mean that it is a good report, but it does not in any case - if you wish - only negative elements. It also has positive elements, which is why it is a fundamental report. To talk about some tragic mistakes, Minister. The Prime Minister should never have gone to Turkey. He had nothing to cut. And he was received by European counterparts other than Germany, the expression of a hesitation in relation to this journey. The Prime Minister should never have linked this issue, namely the issue of the management of the refugee, with any attempt to ease the debt or any economic negotiations. Third mistake. We lost a year when the refugee wave was in the peak or began to be on its peak, because, of course, the establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy was necessary. But you know - because we have again discussed this - that there have been serious delays here, which have to do with the way the Greek state operates. In the meantime, this signal we gave, the signal we gave Europe, was a sign not of aggressive participation in the wider European policy, but of a perfection, of diversity, in relation to what Europe wanted to do. That is why you saw that there was a slow loss of the European acquis. As far as the proposals are concerned. Mr Minister, even today I think that the government can claim the functioning of humanitarian corridors to the European Union. There is the KIVOTOS programme, which we have also presented to the European socialists, with Turkey, with our own ships, with a European flag, in order to save children and vulnerable populations. Hot spots - and you know it - were not the idea of the European Union. First of all, it was the Greek Government's idea. It was the wrong idea. So what we have to think today - and correct me - are hot spots so that we can move this population towards other countries that are closing their borders. You said before - and here I think the disagreement is serious - that there is certainly no risk that the country will come out of Schengen, because such a procedure is not legally provided for. The danger, Mr Minister, is not only to return, as Dublin II returns, to Greece, while its implementation has been lifted or delayed in other countries. The essential risk is to do what is done at airports and at ports in many European countries. They have restored de facto checks on people and travellers from Greece. This is the loss of the European acquis. And this loss becomes gradual, is serious, is critical and removes from the country a negotiating force, at the same time that enables extreme voices in Europe to isolate us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If we need a change in policy - and I conclude, Mr President - this must be done as follows: with greater involvement, more Europe, the same code of communication, which Greece does not have with the other European countries and, above all, with all alternatives to prevent a large number of irregular immigrants from being caught in Greece and, on the other hand, even refugees. I'm tracking numbers. We have so far four hundred ninety-five relocations, and we finally have six hundred ones of them, from what I am told to me, of proposals for positions in Europe. It's too few. But to be able to negotiate, first of all, you have to be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u134	Your time is up, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u136	Indeed, Minister, one question is whether identities are accepted as travel documents and whether this concerns all countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u137	Received but controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u138	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u139	Let me tell you that, in expressing your disagreement, you have expressed a deeper agreement on the way in which the Government - and I am always stressing that it also helps counter-population - is handling the situation. I do not know why such things should be put on a disagreement. It is clear that we not just have a firm and aggressive policy, but there is no diversity. The positions that we have supported in Europe have become European positions. The places for the relocation, the seats for the resettlement. What you are proposing as a humanitarian corridor is the main Greek proposal in the European Union, which has begun and passed, namely that the humanitarian corridor is not necessary either the Aegean Sea, with its drownings, nor this monstrous land that runs through Skopje until it reaches Germany. It may well be the planes and boats that will leave Turkey with the resetlement or the relocation. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in order to accept this proposal, others will have to agree. Therefore, if there is a reproach, it should be addressed to the European Union, which may not be pressured the way it should be, and it should obviously also exist with Turkey, which does not accept the fulfilment of its obligations. The Greek Government - and this is its flag - goes down every time. No difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u140	Minister... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u141	If I'm not deceived, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have one, two questions later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u142	The hot spots are something that has not internationally proved useful, which can be dangerous. For example, the insurrection of illegal immigrants within ships, the uprising of illegal immigrants into ships, is something that can lead to tragedies. This has happened in the regions of Indochina. In general, the agencies do not accept this instrument as an appropriate instrument. Unless, as hot spots, you mean boats tied to the ports and used as identifying centres. This is something that is technically very difficult. Hot spots were not Greek. The Greek proposal was that due to the island character of our country, hot spots should be small and adapted to the flows. In other words, we could not have in Mytilini a hot spot for twenty thousand people, or we could not then, after considering them, put them in a camp of thirty thousand people. These should be made in the mainland. I don't know how to tell you about identity, Mr. President. It's something I haven't looked into. So, whatever I say, it's not true. But I know you're on your passport right now. There's nothing else right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Christos Dimas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from February 14th to February 16th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u144	The House approved the requested permission. Parliament also called for a short-day absence from abroad from February 12th to February 16th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u145	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Halandri, Second Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fourth question under number 464/1-2-2016 will be discussed in the second cycle of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the uncontrolled action of non-governmental organisations on the Aegean islands. Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make it clear at the outset that the subject of my question today is not the important offer and the worthwhile work that many NGOs are doing in the Aegean Sea and offer valuable services, but the uncontrolled action of many - more of the certified - Greek and foreign NGOs on the Aegean islands. I asked this question to you and Mr Toska two months ago and mentioned specific complaints I had collected from the citizens of Lesbos and not just from ordinary citizens. And while you have quite clearly - and I am not surprised because I know you - told me that, as far as my Ministry is concerned, we are working with the following four non-governmental organizations - by their name, their data and so on. - Mr Toskas, recognizing the complaints I had in the question, answers me as follows: 'From the Lesvos Police Directorate, a special step has been taken to carry out an investigation into the activities of the non-governmental organisations mentioned in that question in the island of Lesvos.' I came back to Mr. Toska after two months, to see if the check was completed and what the findings of this check are. I didn't get a reply. Normally today, Mr. Toskas should be here to answer me. Anyway, it's better that you are. I would like to know, then, that in the context where your Ministry is involved, the specific question I ask you to tell me whether this check has been completed? They are thirty non-governmental organisations, of which the fifteen are certified, doing the work properly, helping, while the other fifteen are not certified? And if it's not, why is it on the island? They're getting money? Where do they get money from? How much money? Who's running them? Who controls them? Where are they going? These, as far as prototype is concerned, and I will return to them depending on your response to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u147	The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Mousalas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u148	Mr Kaklamanis raises a very serious issue, which is about how we can combine the great supply of non-governmental organisations, voluntary organisations and also of autonomous volunteers, without losing our national sovereignty, because that is the essence of the matter. So I have to tell you that what we see and agree, Mr Kaklamani, has been the possibility for a time in this panic, the surprise, that anyone who wants to come in, claim what they want and do what they want. We are making a very serious effort to regain control in this situation. I'll submit some documents for the minutes. We have launched an experiment in Mytilini, which I believe will be completed on 15 March. Normally, now we'd have a meeting again for this, but the Prime Minister's summit comes and the DG Home is mine and I won't be able to be. We have created a committee involving the Port and the Police, involving my Ministry, the medical association of the region. We have provided a uniform form, which should be signed and provided by all organisations. Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we have sent these forms to all embassies, and we have stated to the respective Ministries of other countries that no one is now active in Greece unless it is established, that is, if it does not do so, what I do when I go to Uganda. Mr. Kaklamani, it's hard to regain something that's been lost in this panic. I want to tell you that beyond my government it is my personal bet, because I have spent many years of my life in these areas, and I know what might be behind and where the danger might be. I want to believe that on 15 March we will have something more positive than what I tell you today. However, I can assure you that the wheel is already moving in this direction no longer theoretically but practically. The police go, they give paperwork, they give them paperwork and warns them that after a while they won't be able to work if they haven't been accredited. We are therefore making a serious effort. It's hard because it's been lost. You're right. I hope we succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, Minister, after your reply, which I consider to be extremely frank, I should like to read out what I had collected in Lesvos. Incidentally, but clearly, you did not have to name the illegitimate actions of some NGOs - I stress, some NGOs - admitted it. I will be waiting on 15 March, as you said, for it to be presented to Parliament - not to me, to the House - the conclusion of all these efforts. But I am now taking the opportunity and I think you have answered me. I wish - I would feel more pleased - to tell me, "you have made a mistake" or "your information is wrong and it all works perfectly". By means of your honest answer, however, I am also making a more general position to tell you that the government must take advantage of - I can only speak about my party, but I believe that I am also expressing the overwhelming majority - that in this matter and regardless of how we got to this point and what mistakes there may have been - and there has been a lot of - by the Government, there is a national consensus on how to deal with our 'friends' Europe. And I stress our 'friends' of Europe - I stress that I am putting it in introductorys - and our partners in Europe - let the lenders - who are now looking at their houses. They don't care about anything outside of them. They're targeting our country. Yeah, we're late, we've made mistakes. I hope, however, that the timetable will be respected. And I want to see what they're gonna do next. And not to whisper and whisper and wonder about increasing extremist political formations, much more of the Eurosceptic parties. The romantic Eurosceptics - and I am such a Minister, I have always been, I have not become now - are the ones we are really fighting for Europe. Besides, if you go into the Babiniotis dictionary, you will see that 'Eurosceptic' means the one thinking about Europe, the one fighting for Europe, for today and tomorrow in Europe. It is not the anti-European that some want to present. They were just using it as an alibi, behind which they were hiding. Here, when you go outside, you will go representing at least 90% of the Greek Parliament, from what I understand. What we say inside is another story. But outside, that's it. In this spirit, this question has also been asked. And as far as I am concerned, as far as my party is concerned, in trying to exalt this thing, you will have our full support. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] I shall close, Mr President, with that. It happened - I saw it, Minister - when I was taken to the beaches in question, to come at that time on a boat. And I saw with my eyes two vans outside. I saw with my eyes some NGO - I don't know who it was - take money to get into the vans that came to take them downtown. That's what I saw. No one reported it to me. So go ahead. Press the Ministry too, because it's not your business. These may fall into criminal acts. It is mainly the Ministry of Public Orders. That's right. It's this connection. And you also welcomed the medical club, because they are raping - from what I was told - even the structures of the ESS on the island, and they didn't even know if they were doctors who came in there to offer services. So thank you for your answer. As far as this issue is concerned, you will have the full support.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. I wish all political problems could be solved by the Babiniotis dictionary, Mr Kaklamanis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. One weight adds to me the clear but polite conclusion you have answered. And I hope to be able to carry it on March 15th and submit to the House that a job has been started in practice on this. I agree with everything. Believe me, we'll use your help anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. The sixth question will now be discussed under number 453/26-1-2016, a topical question for the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the River Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the suspension of the auctions for the sale of the assets of the companies "FILKERAM JOHNSON INDUSTRIAL CREAMS S.A." and "GENERAL CLOSOFANTOUGIA SA" for six months. Mr. Theocharis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President, and the Minister who came to answer us today. By Article 17 of the Act of Legislative Content, which you brought on New Year's Eve, the Government suspended, Minister, the auctions for the divestment of the companies "Filkereram JOHNSON" and "GENERAL CLOSOFANTURGIA", the "GENERAL" for six months. PHILKERAM JOHNSON was, as you know, a ceramic tiles industry and went bankrupt in 2011. As a result of bankruptcy, two hundred and twenty-five employees were made redundant in January 2012. These workers, today they expect to receive EUR 10.5 million from the product of liquidation. At the same time, in the premises of ‘FILKERAM JOHNSON’, the subsidiary ‘BIOMECHNICAL METAL S.A.’, which rented its production site from the parent. Already in September 2011, the employees at BIOME have gone to work and at the same time the workers' association took over the site of the "FILKERAM JOHNSON" factory. Initially thirty-five employees of BIOME, of whom eight have left, proceeded with self-management of the site. However, as the machines were purchased with leasing and removed from the premises, self-management produces liquid soaps and nothing related to the company’s original business. On the other hand, the "ENKLOV" which for eleven consecutive years until its bankruptcy caused damage, we see all the pathogens, Madam Minister, of the new Greek reality. In 2010, the old administration at the expense of the problems resigned and opened the way for the appointment of a new administration by the then Minister of State, Mr. Katselis. The mismanagement continued and the company was led into bankruptcy. The meeting of creditors decided to divest in July 2014 assets in order to repay debt to the State, insurers and employees of 35%, totalling EUR 306 million. There too, there is a limited minority of the former public administration appointed and some employees, aiming for the self-management system, ignoring, of course, or deliberately forgetting that for this company there is a decision of the European Commission and if there is a successor scheme, State aid of EUR 35 million should be repaid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just finishing up with the question. In view of the above, we ask the Minister of Labour: What is the aim of the suspension of the auctions for these companies? What is the government's position on the question of self-management by a group of workers from these companies? Has all the parties been consulted on these issues? Is the Government aware of the potential costs for business dismissals and for the public, created by this suspension and the promotion of self-management solution? Has a cost-benefit study been carried out to quantify government planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u155	Mr Antonopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u156	I would like to thank Mr Theocharis for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to refer to Rule 17, which we had the opportunity to discuss in committee as well. Before I answer the question, I have to make it clear that for our Government, the objective is to reopen to the maximum possible degree of abandoned companies that have been bankrupt and thus allow job creation, at a time when unemployment despite its low decline in 2015, is still moving at very high levels. These two production units, to which you referred, as you know, were giving work in the northern region, where unemployment, as we know, has been very high in recent years. In this context, and in trying to actively participate in the fight against unemployment, we believe that it is not the case with the closure of businesses and that the public interest is not served by the accumulation of debts and the 'cut-off' of private debts to the Greek State. Reorganisation and reopening of bankrupt companies through schemes that may include - not exclusively, I repeat - and cooperative schemes, in so far as workers do not simply claim what the company owes them, because it has not paid them up so far but are claiming to reopen such units, this must of course be considered. This has been the choice of several countries in Europe for years. Let me get you the most recent example of the Florence Act passed in France in 2014, which creates exactly the institutional framework that is missing in Greece today. We are back and here, and our government aims very quickly to heal this deficit. To come to the specific question you've asked about auctions and why they're suspended. Firstly, they are suspended for the real representation of the rights of workers and of the public, not for the other hand. That's exactly what we're targeting. [[The ending bell of Mrs Deputy Minister's time is ringing at this point.]] You will allow me to take two more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u157	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u158	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u159	It's twice the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u160	Do you want me to stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u161	You've got a second. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u162	Let her go, Mr President, since she has now entered the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u163	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u164	In his question Mr Theocharis basically claims that the suspension of auctions harms the public interest and the workers. I wonder if Mr Theocharis knows what amount the Greek State has received from the auctions that have been auctioned in ENKLOV, which are already two. The answer is zero. He knows Mr. Theocharis, of course, the nominal value of the company's assets 'ENKLOO' and if the auction will cover 120 million to the public and the employees. Mr. Theocharis knows that it is all the workers who want to consider the reopening of the plant, that local government and all the shapes of the workers in the region and local society are in favour of this reopening. Mr Theocharis knows that the public interest has not been represented, because no one has so far participated in these meetings. I would like to close by saying that the extension we give for six months is not being suspended, so that we have the necessary time for the procedures that have not been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u165	Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Minister and Mr President. I see a tactic again - even if I have good faith in the objections made by the Minister - 'it hurts head, it cuts head'. We were told by the Minister, Mr Katrugalos, on a timely question the other day - if I remember correctly - in which he said that because the figures in the "ERGANI" and the "ELIOS" system have 1% or 2% problem, we closed it completely to see nothing, rather than to make it right. If the auctions, Minister, did not generate revenues for the public, look at what you will do to make public revenues, not to stop auctioning. As far as matters are concerned, if the workers want or do not want, I will present you with three out-of-court protests, one about the withdrawal of workers from BIOMEP, who say that they are not represented by this club - fourteen workers here - and two out-of-court protests from former workers - of FILKERAM JOHNSON, who are calling for the auctions to continue so that people can get their money. It is clear that it is not possible to talk about procedures that stop divesting. In any case, he is here by chance - he obviously has another timely question - the Minister for Development. Development is not going to come, unless all these companies' liquidation procedures go quickly and quickly, so that new investors can enter and those properties that are now untapped, can be sold to some people who will invest, bring workers, bring life. And tell us who protect these eight people, for example at "BIOME", when PPC subcontractors come to shut them down, they immediately get a phone call that they have on the PPC card and protects them and stops the subcontractor and sends him out of there. There is therefore high protection for these workers, who do nothing but trample down the property of other workers - even more - and for the sake of eight people two hundred and twenty-five people, two and twenty-five families will not take their money and will be in unemployment without getting what they deserve. That's what you need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u167	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u168	I must put down a very detailed note, because too much is said, and for the information of this House these should be recorded. Look, Mr Theochram JOHNSON, with regard to 'BIOME', to clarify this: That was precisely because it was a subsidiary of the parent company 'FILKERAM JOHNSON', workers - and since 99% of BIOMER's movable and immovable property belonged to 'FILKERAM JOHNSON' - who were neither four nor eight were over forty, they did not have the same rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u169	You will allow me to finish. This is an issue which, in terms of equality and equal treatment of workers, should have been examined and concluded. But I want to focus and answer what you said. To be able to take what is due to us as public authorities. So when we think of the public interest, we say: The public interest will be served, when they will indeed be able to operate again, when jobs are created, when the same workers and local society can enjoy the good results of this very process, which you too wish from what you have said, because they must restart. There are three ways to do this thing, as it is known. One is the same owner, if they have come into trouble, to be able to obtain those loans that will make their businesses viable. The second way is to sell to someone else and the third way is to have a shape in which workers are involved either by capitalising on the debts that exist to them or in a different way. So I come to draw your attention from now on. In the short term, if a building, a factory has a value of 200 million and can be sold for fifteen million, some of the debtors will be able to secure the debts that exist. The rest of you won't get one. Here, then, is the alternative scenario, where it will be able to reoperate a company, which will be able to repay those to whom it owes much more than the 10% zero that it will get if it divests everything. If there is no business plan and it cannot be ensured that this is possible, of course it will proceed to bankruptcy. If this procedure is not completed, then there should be time to continue until the conclusion is reached, which will ensure the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. We enter the debate of the first under number 2152-29-12-2015 question of the question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the adjustment of the loans of the Labour Residence Agency and the Deposit and Loan Fund. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will only deal with the part of the loans from the OEC, because obviously the issue of the Treasury and Loan Fund is of the Ministry of Finance. It was, however, a written question, which has become timely, because it was not answered by the Ministry of Finance but by you, of course. So we are dealing only with the loans of the OEC today, which, over time, has granted thousands of loans from its own housing funds, either for small repairs, for housing, for home purchases, for loans and for the repayment of housing granted by the OEC housing programme. We also have loans to do with the subsidised interest rate granted by the banks. There is, therefore, a set of loans for tens of thousands of families in our country. After the regulation adopted in 2011 and implemented - if I remember correctly - in 2012, things have made it difficult. People who were then able to pay became late. I believe that today, in 2016, four years later, it is necessary to have a new legislative initiative in the standards probably of the old, improved if you like, so that it also meets the current circumstances and the new problems that have arisen. However, it takes legislation to regulate all these loans, which, as I said to you, are a very wide range and have many differentiations, because they are either from the capital of the OEC or from banks with the guarantee of the OEC. I would like to know if you intend to take a legislative initiative to allow these loans to be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u172	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u173	Mr Kegeroglu, thank you very much for your question, because the issue is, indeed, very important and concerns tens of thousands of beneficiaries of the former Labour Housing Agency. As the OAED administration informed me, eighty-eight thousand loans totalling 1.5 billion euro have been issued by the OEK. Of these, the fifty - two thousand loans are not served today. The loans are therefore divided into two categories. First category, it is the banks' capital loans to build houses with interest rate subsidy, as you know. They have been given the possibility of extending the repayment period in accordance with Article 55 of the Law. Date of birth: 4405/2014. The Article provides that the loans received by beneficiaries from credit institutions with an interest subsidy exclusively from the former ECE are extended, provided that the beneficiaries have not exceeded six months in which they have not paid. This, as you know, has been renewed in 2015 another twice. The second category is equity loans for completion, expansion and repairs, as you mentioned. For the first category of loans the validity of Article 55 will also be extended in 2016. I will return to the overall view of the Ministry of Labour at the moment, but just to inform you that the extension will be given for 2016 as well. I come in the second category at the time of the abolition of the agencies. On the basis of such requests, as you know, you were at the Ministry of Labour - in detail and on several occasions the question of the possibility of providing facilities to the borrowers of the former ECE and there have been many meetings between the relevant services, etc. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] With the current legislative framework, as you have rightly pointed out, it is not possible to meet all the demands, because they are many different categories. The OAED and our ministry have taken an initiative, and by the end of March we will be ready for the Minister of Labour to announce what will be the overall intervention - intervention to be made to help and resolve all these problems. I would therefore like to reply to you on the next steps and ask for time by the end of March, where Mr Katrugalos will present the whole plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. In the case of loans with interest subsidies, the rules laid down in Article 55 of the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal are to apply. A solution was also found for 2016 to enable the provisions of Article 55 to be incorporated into the provisions of Article 55. From there on, we have tens of thousands of families who have to deal with the public. This is not the case for most of the loans from OEC funds which many ministers in many governments have claimed: 'But banks do not want, agree, do not agree'. This is not the case here. It is a simple arrangement to allow a new possibility of accession in accordance with all the paragraphs of Article 19 of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4019/11. What are these provisions of the n. 4019, concerning the social economy, social entrepreneurship, but in that context has the regulation been put in place at the time and for which I had contributed to the processing of it? The possibility of a one-off payment for those they have and the arrangement for those who do not have. And the public can collect money, in this case the OAED and the people who are locked can't have a final concession for their homes, so that they can own the property, be locked away. So I think that there is no need for much planning. A new legislative initiative needs to be introduced with a simple legislative initiative. There's no need for complicated planning for this thing. It is the possibility of reopening Article 19 of the Treaty. 4019. Just stuff. And, of course, within this article it is also an authoritative provision to the Minister of Labour, which may be a KHS, rather than a ministerial decision, to include both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, the way in which the loans in question are regulated by banks, but with the guarantee of the former OSCE, the public sector, in essence, of the OAED. So, then, bring this arrangement, because problems are running. There's no need for a big plan. Three lines is set. If you want, we can contribute to this. But we want you to tell us what you intend to do for the time you can give a solution to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u176	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, the time we have before us is very short. We're almost mid-February. Within a month and a half at most - we will have tabled the overall proposal and I will be very happy to come in touch with you personally to discuss individual issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u178	Before we go to the last question today, which is also Mr Kegeroglu's colleague, I would like to inform you of the following: The seventh question under number 455/26-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kossilis, on the need to exclude the Evian Gulf from the implementation of the Ministry's decision authorising fishing with the Vidzotrata gear, is postponed due to an impediment by the Minister. For the same reason, the eighth question is postponed under number 466/1-2-2016, on the second question of the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassidy to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "millions shared by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". Also, the eleventh question under number 385/12-1-2016 of a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers in the "EUROMEDICA" Group is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The twelfth, under number 426/19-1-2016, a topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reuptake of workers by WASTE SOLUTIONS, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Finally, the second question by MP B' Athens, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the procurement of bank transfers and the use of cards, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. He's the only one who is proven to be justified, because he's abroad. We enter the last question, the fifth under number 468/1/10 2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning measures to be taken on late payments between producers of fresh food and vulnerable products and medium-sized enterprises or retail chains. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you will know, in times of crisis and especially in times of intense competition, strong market players are imposing rules beyond the law on the weak of the market. In this regard - and in relation to the question - producers, processors and those who promote products, traders or networks are in a weak position to those who place them on the market, whether they are large chains or European and international networks. In view of this problem, the European Union has obviously come with Directive 211/7 to settle matters and to put a order on the payment of products. This directive has been incorporated into national law and certainly provides, in addition to public payments, which must be within thirty to sixty days and for retail chains, for example, food, that they should pay within sixty calendar days. The possibility is for special contracts, but they must not be an abusive application of this exception and that possibility. Being strong players, large chains cannot misuse this possibility of special agreements and in any case do not respect these intervals or reasonably reasonable and reasonable intervals close to them, especially when they concern sensitive products. And the reason is specific. The chain receives cash. He can't pay - if he pays - in three, four and five months. So we need to see this, how we intervene as a state that wants to lay rules and, in particular, to protect producers in times of crisis. That is why we ask you this question, to see how you think about it, how you think about dealing with the problem that has arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u180	Before I give the floor to Mr Stathakis, I would ask the Secretariats of the Party Parliamentary Groups to inform their parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs and special speakers to come to plenary. We're finishing up and we'll start the normal process right away. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u181	Mr Kegeroglu, I would remind you that the institutional framework exists, it is the incorporation of the European Union directive, which you mentioned. So the framework exists. The public authorities must pay for goods and services supplied within 30 days and in exceptional circumstances within 60 days. Undertakings are now required to pay their invoices within sixty calendar days. Enterprises are entitled to request interest on late payments automatically, and can also automatically receive a minimum fixed amount of EUR 40 as compensation for collection costs. The legal interest rate for default interest is also determined, 8% per annum, above the reference rate of the European Central Bank. From there on, I think we are talking about an agreement - privately-agreed business to business. It therefore falls to 100% - commercial law and these disputes are resolved within it, as we know, since the institutional framework that I mentioned in the civil courts, as provided for in the applicable law, is not complied with. Your question expresses thoughts from the Association of Greek Meat Processing Industries, which has specific thoughts on how to resolve the problem of delays. I repeat that the institutional framework exists. From there on, there are practices that can go beyond those limits. There can be unfair trade practices which, in the event of issues of equal treatment or competition, are examined by the Competition Committee, where there are abused trade practices there is the institutional framework to intervene with the public. But I return to your question. Your question focuses on the reference and the way it is solved, as proposed by the Association of Greek Meat Processing Industries. Let me mention what this link proposes: it proposes, firstly, automatic cancellation of the contract if there is a delay in payment. I don't think that's such a thought. It proposes, secondly, that there should be administrative sanctions in the event of a state delay on one side of the side which has signed a private contract. I don't think that's a reasonable practice either. I repeat that reasonable practice exists in the institutional framework. It is a mechanism for incremental debts. In this case it is rather a difficult matter, whenever such a delay occurs, to interfere with administrative sanctions. We therefore do not adopt these views of this link. I think there is the institutional framework. In case there are major violations, there are ways of dealing with them. As we know, in a difficult economic situation with a major liquidity crisis faced by the Greek economy over the last four or five years, the reality is obviously also creating a system that does not comply with these deadlines at 100% and the framework of the law. This is how, as you have suggested, in the private contracts concluded between both sides, especially for the chains of mass sale of these goods, a slightly more flexible framework is laid down within the contract, but this is a 100% strict framework for private contracts between two undertakings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u183	Minister, we have in fact tabled you and Mr Jellonis, the Meat Processors' Association's document, and that is of particular value: we refer to sensitive products and products of short duration. The institutional framework that has incorporated and the European Union directive should, in our view, be complemented, amended, improved - whatever phrase you want, choose - and provide for the special treatment and protection of producers who have to deal with sensitive products. That's the request. Long-term products cannot be in the same fate as sensitive and short-term products. This has been demonstrated by the way in which this institutional framework has been implemented so far. We are asking for this intervention to be applied to date. We're asking for it in particular. The Minister for Economy cannot shake his hands because it is like telling us that once Europe has determined the framework, things will work on their own. That's what you told us. If it is different and if you think as other ministers of the same government think that they will make state intervention, for example, in the number of channels, and that they will tell us what is sustainable or not, if you think like the other Minister who is now coming to state the issue of debts and the Grand Music, you will have to give us a solution for the weak producers, Minister. You cannot'swap the hands', you cannot apply right-wing policies in this respect personally by saying that the market regulates itself. You're laughing, Mr. Statakis. Are you laughing at me? Sustained. Listen, you cannot tell us "the market regulates" and leave the producers at the mercy of the chains. Understood? If you do not understand, you will have to respond to the thousands of producers and processors, which are today with sealed high-handed cheques, unpaid, because they have been facilitated through the institutional framework to pay, it is assumed, in the three and four months and five months, and when they grew up at this time, while they have been cashed as chains, they have worn and gone wrong. Hey, no! The Minister for Economy of a government, responsible for trade and market surveillance, should review the rules whenever they do not cover, in accordance with the circumstances in which they arise, the protection of the small producer, processor. And it was an artifact to say that 'industry - as has been pointed out, Mr President - made this proposal and we do not accept it'. Resistance to industry, Mr. Stathakis! No, Mr. Statakis. We are talking about fruit and vegetables producers, tomato producers in Kudoura, Arde, Fish Ford, Ierape, susceptible products, meat processing, those who are at the mercy of the chains and you are doing nothing but laughing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u184	Mr Stathakis, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u185	I won't follow the political delirium I've just heard. We were supposed to discuss a specific proposal here. We are not here to talk about either the Kudura producers or anyone else. I see no reference to them in your question. I don't even have a resistance fight against industrial meat. That's not the point we're talking about. The issue we are discussing - and I am still waiting for your proposal - is what this is about in an institutional framework which provides for sixty days and interest on late payment from this point on. Secondly, can you tell me, on the basis of the data - which does not refer to any particular means - whether there are contracts for sensitive products beyond sixty days? Do you have any indication that the contracts signed, the private agreements on susceptible products, provide for payment in nine months? Bring us a statistic that says there's a dimension...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u186	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u187	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u188	Let it finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u189	If this is the case, it must be understood from all sides. From that point on, you can understand that I cannot divert this confrontation and the demagogy of your right-wing minister, your left-hand identity, etc. You will allow me not to answer that. When you take a concrete view on this issue and present something to me beyond the link request - which you have presented and which I directly replied that the two demands made by the government do not accept - we will be here to continue the dialogue, I hope at a better level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The quorum is found to be needed. A sole debate and vote on the principle of the articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring: a) of the Act of Legislation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, Maritime and Migration Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance" (A'182) and b) of the Act of Legislative Area "Consolidation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Health and Economic Affairs, WORK and Tourism". (A'184)’. I would like to inform colleagues that at the meeting of 9 February 2016, the Conference of Presidents decided unanimously to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings. The second meeting will depend on whether we'll be done by 17.30. If not, then the plenary will determine the next sitting. Firstly, I propose that the debate be made uniform. Secondly, in order to try to end by 17:30, I propose that the speaking time of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers should be twelve minutes instead of fifteen, of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, who will be the only one from the Ministry of Finance, who is going to be here, because the others are gone abroad - to be fifteen minutes, of the Minister of Health twelve minutes and of the other eight minutes, of the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes and, depending on how many speakers will be registered, see the speaking time. If not many, their speaking time will be seven minutes. If we have succeeded in ending the debate at 17.00, well, otherwise the House will decide on the second day of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, you have informed the House, and rightly so, that the Conference of Presidents decided on one or two meetings, after the President of the Commission has informed us that the debate in the two legislative acts lasted around seven to eight hours. It cannot therefore take place in less than a few hours in plenary. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that I raised a matter for the Ministers present at the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to inform the committee if they are going to table amendments. And yes, at first they said that they did not intend to table amendments but then Mr Tsakalots told us that there might be an amendment concerning the Congregation of Music. I have therefore asked him to table the amendments to the committee so that we can have a detailed debate and also call on the institutions. As you know, Mr President, two important amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u195	Yeah, but don't eat my time. That's not for here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u196	It's for the procedure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u197	Yeah, it's not for here. As a party, you had to raise it as a matter of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u198	Yes, but listen to me, to complete my point of order. So the government has taken steps to bring the amendments without discussing them in the committee and without having the opportunity to call on the bodies. I said that I wanted to call the Mansion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u199	Please, Mr. Kutsuko, come to your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u200	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that because we can go to two meetings, I do not have twelve minutes for fifty two articles in both legislative and two important amendments. I want at least 15 minutes for the amendments, because I consider the question of the stateisation of the Congregation of the Congregation of Music to be serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u201	First of all, the plenary decides and I do not think the problem is two minutes, because two minutes is the reduction of special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u202	You didn't understand what I said. I said the articles and the amendments separately. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u203	Wait a minute. Leave the amendments. I have not been on the amendments. That is why I told Mr Statakis to stay a minute I need him for this amendment. Minister, because there is a possibility that, after you have tabled the amendment to the MDGs, you will not end at 7 p.m., the manners are two: if you want to table it in the afternoon where the debate on this issue will end - because I think there is a deadline - because otherwise we can go to a second sitting and an amendment that I can see is going to be accepted outside the deadline. Then tell me what you want. When you come back to develop it and stay here at the risk I have told you, or do you prefer to table it in the evening draft law that is late in the evening, no matter what time it is, will the meeting end, so as to reduce the reasonable complaint already made by my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u204	But we can talk at night, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u205	The night is until as long as it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u206	I will follow your advice and thank you very much. Because there's a deadline for February 15th, I'd rather testify for the night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u207	As far as Mr Statakis' amendment is concerned, there is no question. As far as I am concerned, Mr Kutsukouko, the other amendment is concerned, I will consult the President of Parliament and you will be informed during the debate. I am referring to the one concerning the Congregation of Music. So let's start to see how many colleagues will be registered. I tell you they will not speak from the list given to me by fifteen ministers. It's gonna be nine, and as you've seen, I cut them off the time. Eighteen minutes went to eight. So let's start and see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Pappa, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order, and I would also like to make a proposal to this House. Today, our Greeks and our Navy mourn three brave officers who crashed with a helicopter Agusta Bell, that is, technology of the era of Vietnam. We had a tragedy and at the same time we have the growing Turkish challenges in the Aegean Sea and the question of our national sovereignty. It is trying, through NATO and various NOTAMs, to challenge our operational capacity to locate and rescue Agusta Bell and not just. The three fallen of our Navy - to officially call them missing, because they cannot yet be considered fallen, but all of them show that these people fell into duty - is the lieutenant and governor of the helicopter Tulitsis Anastasios, the lieutenant and co-governant of the helicopter Panana Konstantinos and the engineer Gospel Eleftherios. So the Greek Parliament, Mr President, should you take care of me, please. Mr. Caclamani, are you keeping an eye on me? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u211	You made your conclusion, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much. Therefore, the plenary, Mr President, should show its support for the families of missing persons and her sympathy and support for the Hellenic Navy. I therefore propose that those who, Mr President, identify and like families and feel shocked by today's event, which has other causes behind it, have the memorandum, have the spare parts, etc....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u213	Yeah, but hang up. You said a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I am making this proposal: you must agree, if you wish, on this proposal and rise, thereby showing our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u215	I have not understood exactly the proposal, Mr Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u216	The proposal is to rise symbolically, showing our support for the families of the missing or poor, as well as our sympathy and support to the Hellenic Navy, which today lamentes three brave officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u217	Well, first of all, I think I'm expressing as the Bureau all the wings as well as the condolences to the families of the fallen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u218	They're still missing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u219	Don't rush! That would be the end of it. Our full support for the Armed Forces, in general, and I wish they could find survivors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u220	They're still officially missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u221	For formal reasons, let's wait. We'll be here by night. I wish the message was not sad for all three, to make one minute silence in memory of the fallen. We therefore begin the debate with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Merope Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I, too, would like to ask for your understanding on account of the volume of the bill. I will try to keep up the time frame, but I also want your understanding. So we're here today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u223	Come on, let go of the help. We're moving on because, if we go that way, we're wrongly making the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u224	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u225	And I tell you that the President has told me that the second sitting will take place tomorrow afternoon. Take your measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, we have not made a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u227	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, at the plenary sitting to ratify the legislative acts of 24 and 30 December, which of course involve important and urgent arrangements from various ministries. As I pointed out in my report to the Committee on Finance last Monday, the government was forced to go ahead in this way precisely to deal with issues relating, as I said, to the management of acute problems while respecting the narrow timetables. I think it has now become clear and understandable that the failure to resolve the issues covered by the MAGP provisions would further exacerbate existing problems at the level of operation of the wider public sector and lead to the demolition of necessary structures and the loss of useful staff. This also forces us through FPI on extensions of dates that have been applied by previous governments to final and legislatively resolve them. In fact, their multilingual character reflects exactly this fact, the many, chronological and explosive problems that you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, inherited us, drifted from your memorial piety and your neoliberal obsessions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition - those who are here, of course, because I see that there is no one from New Democracy - a lot of discussion today is taking place on the procedure that has been followed rather than on the content of the provisions, and that is what is done deliberately. Here's the paradox. Various Members, including rapporteurs from New Democracy, PASOK and the Potami, admitted publicly within and outside Parliament that about 80% of the arrangements are positive and could have been voted on if this so-called problematic procedure had not been followed. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen. The MIPs we are called upon to cancel would not exist if you had allowed us to proceed normally with the procedures for discussing and voting for the "Measures to speed up the Government Work and other provisions". With your attitude before the holidays, you chose to dynamise those procedures so that none of the current problems could be solved, then blaming the government for its frustration and supposed inadequacy, detracting political excellence and thus giving the people's wrath the same anger that you have nourished so many years that you have ruled the country. Is it, then, a coincidence that at critical meetings where better rules are being discussed on social policy, is there a choice for an organised withdrawal? Also, where is the required consensus on the self-evident, such as in the case of the PSE, which is a necessary step towards the lawful licensing of television frequencies, in order to stop the illegality, baronism and interacting against the Greek public over time, or even the attempted insurance reform with productive proposals? Recently, your micro-political location for zero-based discussion, while the necessity for rapid completion of the evaluation is well known. A year after our election, colleagues from the Opposition are still finding their new role difficult. They are striving for, but without social legitimacy, to whisper to us that Parliament belongs to them, to the ministries and to their services, to the NRP and to their programmes, since they only know, and not to the coming amateurs, even though we were able to be first in Europe in designing the new programmes, to ensure forward funding, but also to absorb 100% of the resources of the previous years, which would be lost according to Cassandra. In the end, they are trying, with the help of their loved media, to convince us that both people's feelings and consciences belong to them and they know them and they can interpret them. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you are trying to close us in the parentheses you and some of the lenders imagine, we continue what we started on January 25th, learning from our mistakes and inadequacies and trying to meet the expectations of the Greek people, ruling in the agreed hard loan framework and with ballots, if you like, a left-wing policy, but certainly with social care and aiming, despite the difficulties and traps they put us inside and outside the country. Now, let us talk about the content. I am going through the substance of the bill which, like you, admits - most of them silently - contains positive provisions. And I wonder: Is it or is it not urgent for the regulation on the submission of CEDEFOP to be applied to all the financial provisions implemented by the general government, a known monument of mismanagement and opacity - under judicial investigation, I point out - so that it can be used to deal with epidemics, the urgent recruitment of personnel for ICU and MEN - to recall yesterday that five hundred people, four hundred nurses and a hundred doctors - and to cover the emergency needs of medical care for migrants and refugees? Is it or is it not urgent to extend the possibility of reimbursement of the costs of supplying medicines, health and other materials, as well as of service contracts for military hospitals, pharmacy and NIMTS? Is it or is it not necessary to maintain the Department of Psychiatric Health, as its planned abolition would lead to appalling problems in the context of mental health, and would it not be possible to coordinate and monitor the programme co-financed by the European Union? Should the extension of the contracts of doctors, dentists, diagnostic laboratories, multimedical clinics and clinics to the EEAS not be regulated until 30 June, in order to ensure that the unable to cover otherwise the needs of insured persons is ensured? Is there any time-limit for extending the term of office of such necessary ancillary staff to health service providers until 30 September 2016? In addition, is there any doubt as to the urgency of the provisions relating to refugee - immigration, which seeks to regulate the asylum procedure by adapting to the challenges posed by the refugee crisis, and to regulate the establishment and functioning of temporary residence centres for refugees and their families? I also wonder whether the opposition is proposing to leave the Roma and vulnerable groups to their fate, while leaving the staff employed in the air at the same time. Should we also not extend supplementary staff contracts to the Social Welfare Centres for nine months until permanent recruitment is announced? Or should we abandon the successful program to tackle the humanitarian crisis? Do you continue to deny this crisis that you created? In addition, do we have to let other factories close down - and I refer to the 'FILKERAM' and 'KLOSOVADOURGIA' - because some of the opposition are allergic only to hearing the word'self-management', despite the positive European experience of operating such schemes or local social support, as in the case of 'ENCLO'? Is it or is it not necessary to extend the application of the provisions laid down in Article 22 of the first FPI on tax evasion cases prepared by specific audit reports? Or should it not be foreseen to facilitate the beneficiary projects of the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme approved in 2015? In addition, should we ignore the burden of the TAs due to the special burial fee, continuing their financial suffocation, while at the same time noting the needs of their cleanliness, as well as the staff contracts? Is it or is it not urgent to extend the TSE programme by two years? Should we or should we not take care of the co-financed pilot project of the 'Mathematics Class', which is to be launched directly by the Ministry of Education? Also, how much should we maintain moratorium analogy symptoms and leave the nominations of members of the HEIs and TEIs, which are a hundred of ninety-five new permanent members? Do we still have to continue to have PPC units without permission? Should our country be deprived of the NATURA administration agencies because you have never wasted a single euro from state funding, now that the European programmes are out? Finally, are the provisions relating to the uninterrupted functioning of the national defence industry, the company "ELLENIC AMNICAL SYSTEMS", the "ELLENIC AEROPORIC INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY" and the "ITAL INDUSTRY" in the interests of national defence and security, as well as job security? So I continue my position by analyzing the second line of defence of counterpopulation, which is no other than the constant question: 'And where will you get the money?' This question has been raised countless times in various versions. Continuously the opposition parties raise a matter of costing, trying to entertain political impressions. They did exactly the same before the holidays, when, as I said, we had tabled the bill on speeding up the government's work, which I would say was voted in favour yesterday by the relevant committees of this House. On this point I must remind you, although only a few months have passed since the 2016 budget was adopted - the first budget with left-hand prints in the country - that social expenditure has increased by EUR 823 million. In particular, the budget that we voted in favour contains increases in funds to combat unemployment, the humanitarian crisis, the extension of the minimum guaranteed income and the strengthening of hospitals with 300 million more than in 2015. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] In addition, you deliberately hide that an important set of provisions is budgetaryly neutral, while other arrangements are estimated to confer a financial benefit because of their rationalisation. In conclusion, the arguments of the Opposition collapse one by one either in one or the other. Behind the cloud of yellowism and propaganda is the different viewpoint, the different starting point and ultimately the different destinations we have for social needs, for economic policy, for the social state and for public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in my position I made it clear that we did not want to go forward with these rules on legislative matters, but we were obliged, precisely because we had tabled them, most of them, for discussion in committees and you left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. This draft law, therefore, contains absolutely necessary provisions, which most of them go towards supporting the social state and the wider public sector, under pressure, in fact, of certain time-limits. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the functions of the social state - public education, health and insurance - are not expenditure in the narrow sense, but help to strengthen social cohesion and act as an investment for the future, compensate for the inequalities generated by long-term austerity policies and strengthen political and civil rights. Our government, along with the people, is not going to allow social darninism. We continue to believe in strengthening the social state against private charity, which is a cornerstone neoliberal dogma, and despite the constant pressures we are under negotiation, with a view to completing the evaluation. For our part, we are ready to make every effort and give the necessary battle. We also call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, to vote in favour of this very necessary bill long from pointless controversies, since it is absolutely necessary to support the social state and the wider public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of two acts of legislation within a specific political climate. And the House is a living organization in which all events are played and interpreted. Two days ago, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Mr Chakalotos told us two things. Firstly, the good news that the institutions are in line with the architecture of the government proposal and, secondly, that we were burned if the evaluation process is not finished at most in three weeks. Yesterday, the Governor of the Bank of Greece told us four things. First of all, we did not finish the evaluation of the time that Mr Chakalotos has said. Secondly, we're not only burned, but we're already late. Third, that the capital controls are not certain when they will be lifted, despite the fact that the government in the past had expressed the assurance that within the first half of 2016 they will have been lifted. And fourthly, it is clear that there are reservations about the architecture of the government proposal. The institutions, too, are certain - and that is no longer what one can conceal - that they have strong reservations about architecture. They also raise another issue to close the evaluation, that of the TIAD regulation, which we have not heard and nothing has been done at all. And all that within the terrifying suffocating frameworks described by both the relevant Minister of Finance and the central banker. Meanwhile, the evaluation itself is cancerous. We hear a lot of strange things. Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister say, by addressing the lenders, to leave the blockades and the tactics. Farmers and professionals are on the streets. The refugee is on a very bad orbit. Mr Mouszalas and Mr Drasakis have told us that they can close our borders and that we need to take measures. They're asking us? The ministers are not to find out, but to prevent and to take action. And I wonder why they are making this statement today and ignored the warning that Mr Junker's letter closed in it twenty days ago to the Slovenian Prime Minister, where he described this very situation to him. Ten bells had to be ringing for the government, not to see this problem today. And the cherry on the cake, the election, which none of us opened, one of us, from the opposition, but your privileged partner in the government, Mr. Kammenos. Indeed, it brought it back twice, one with the direct threat that if the partners do not agree on the government proposal, we should appeal to the people and the other with the proposal made by Mr Kammens' representative calling for a referendum. And as all this happens, Mr. Tsipras on others is curbing. He denounces the Opposition for populism and stride. Lacquism, why? Because Mr. Mitsotakis, the President of the New Democracy, told him to withdraw his proposal for insurance, a proposal that the universe has lifted. But I ask: What proposal has the government made? This proposal that the Prime Minister yesterday at the Ministerial Council said that we can look at it again, by closing the eye one in the direction of farmers and one in the direction of professionals? So there's nothing specific about the government. What proposal? The one that has not even been discussed with the institutions? And when he says it's complicated, what does he mean? Who's talking about a complication? Be careful, history is now written, but it is read shortly later. And it will not take long to reveal the complexity of its real dimension: Who and how did they throw the Samara government? Who and how did a party get drunk, which three years ago had 3% and thirteen components, to take place within three years 36%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u230	Did they get it drunk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u231	We'll see about this. Don't be in a hurry. The story is now written, but it is read later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u232	The Mitsotakis government knows... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, please do not write anything in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u234	The Mitsotakis government in 1993 don't forget that... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u235	And he blames Mr Mitsotakis for populism, when it is recent, yesterday's statements by Mr Mitsotakis expressing the greatest restraint. Mr Mitsotakis calls for restraint and farmers and citizens. He has a behavior that for you is completely unknown. Because until yesterday on the tractors you caused farmers to go down to Athens. And you dare compare Mr. Mitsotakis' behavior to Mr. Tsipras' behaviour. Let's come to the bill now. What's this bill? Until now, we have known in our political life the bills'sweeps'. Today, you are introducing another institution, the acts of the legislative content 'buffalo'. The violation of the Constitution is obvious. What does Article 44 of the Constitution say? It says they are signed, issued in case of exceptional and unforeseen need. What does "extra" mean? It limits the number, this is not a regular procedure, it is an emergency. The fingers are counted the cases that need to be resolved by the MOP method and says that they must be urgent and unforeseen. It is not the negligence of the ministers to resolve the problems they have in their ministries, the problems they face as Ministers. The inertia of the Ministers and the inertia of those who are subject to them does not hamper the notion of urgency or the notion of unforeseeable. It is therefore unconstitutional, because the conditions used by the constitutional legislature are too strict. And they're strict for a single reason, mostly. Because the constitutional legislature does not want the House to be replaced in its legislative work by another state institution. Because this is extremely dangerous for democracy. The second point concerning the provisions under discussion relates to the accusations you have made against us. Who? I will not dwell on the issue of your conflict, on what you have said and what you are doing, because this unreliability is now a sign of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. When the other SYRIZA - ANEL hears, his mind goes to the unreliable, lying, deception. I won't stand there. I will, however, stand by the fact that you ask us to do what you refused to do even when you agreed. And we have an MFF that we, you agreed, such as the one for the opportunity for workers to be paid for in Scaramaga. And you didn't vote for the PPP. And the parties that co-governed then voted. The third feature of these MAGPs is that there are not in most of the provisions of the General Accounting Office of the State describing the amount of planned expenditure. Also in the report referred to in Article 75 of the Constitution, it is not clear where such costs or losses will be covered. A characteristic case is what is specified for the assets of the GOI. You've budgeted this, Mr. Ministers, in the budget. This has been approved by the troika, too, when you spoke. Now remove them. The total amount therefore presents an empty amount. Exclude it. But tell us where the resulting gap will be covered? Mr. Juliarakis also expressed an original view. When I asked why these are not accompanied by the reports from the General Accounting Office of the State, he said to me: 'These are from a legislative arrangement that we were preparing to put in the House before the holidays, but because you protested, we withdrew it'. Of the fifty - nine articles of the two MDGs, only twenty - eight were included in the parallel program you had submitted. The remaining thirty one is out. It's been two months since. In these two months why was the General Accounting Office unable to determine the costs and the ministers to tell us where the money will come from to cover these costs? It's been two months. However, Mr Juliarakis also had another view of very interesting, especially for you, the SYRIZA colleagues. He said: "But these were approved by the troika. Are you questioning the troika?" First of all, we welcome the accession of Mr Juliarakis and some other Ministers to the field of logic, even if they are exceptions. However, I would like to remind him that they may agree with the troika on the substance, but the procedure provided for in the Constitution cannot be violated. And compliance and agreement with the Troika must be compatible with the provisions of the Constitution, as regards the determination of the content of the report of the State General Accountancy and the report of Article 75 of the Constitution. On the substance of the matter now and soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Stopatis, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u237	But what am I supposed to do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u238	Whatever you do, one minute you still have, over and over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u239	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u240	No, Mr. Stopatis, please. I've been clear all along. And it's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u241	On the substance: we have not been negative on the whole of the provisions. We are negative and believe that it is unconstitutional the way in which the MIPs were issued. There are provisions that we could accept even as a PPP. However, at the time when these are linked to other provisions which are manifestly illegal or unconstitutional, because of the procedure, it is impossible to vote on them. As there are provisions which we consider to be correct and reasonable, but which do not cover the terms and conditions set by the Constitution. And you could bring them along with the ordinary legislative procedure and vote on them. However, there are also provisions which we are not going to vote on. I am telling you the most characteristic case because I do not have time, the case of 'Filkeram JOHNSON'. Where has it been heard by legislation to abolish a final and final judicial decision? Where did it sound? We have also heard the following argument: we will do - it says - self-management. Self-management in bankruptcy? Has that happened before? Will you abolish the bankruptcy code, too? But behind it, he's hiding another truth. The other truth is that workers who have to pay since 2011 are asking for the auctioning of the properties, to pay their rents, to live their families. However, this cannot go any further, because twenty-six employees, friends of SYRIZA, have occupied the means of production, a portion of the bankruptcy. And they say they want to manage themselves. So you realize that you are not standing anywhere with what you come to do. In view of the above, I say briefly that we cannot vote either in principle or in the articles and why we consider the procedure illegal and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u242	Tell me about the unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u243	Speaking illegally, I mean, it's unconstitutional, in the broadest sense. So we cannot vote because we cannot legitimise your own political games and your communication tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u244	We want you to say that we are putting an issue of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u245	Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u246	It should be noted in the Minutes that the rapporteur's statement raises the issue of unconstitutionalism from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u247	If it was not understood, add that we raise the issue of the unconstitutionality of the draft law in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u248	Good, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will develop it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and four teachers from the 1st General School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the special speaker of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u249	The issue of unconstitutionalism seems to me to precede the moment it has been raised. When will it be discussed, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u250	This can be done during the conversation anytime you want. If you want to put it immediately after the end of Mr Panayotarou's suggestion, I will give the floor to Mr Javarra, who will be the saying, to develop the matter. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. It's good the kids came in to see the restoration of democracy. Let them come and see the hundreds of thousands who will celebrate democracy and all that you have given them, especially in the last five years, here in the Constitution and in the other cities of Greece! Before I begin, I too would like to express my wholehearted condolences to the families of the three officers of the Navy, who show that there are some other Greeks who work and fight to defend the freedom and honor of this nation. At 2:45 somewhere in the Aegean Sea, a helicopter of the Navy flew into an educational exercise we broke the sea in order to be ready to fight - even though they have a great shortage of spare parts, in everything - so that they can cope, when the time comes, with the suburban enemy. The sub-eternal enemy, who has steadfastly worked out a NOTAM that for research and rescue they should be informed - the Turks - and not us. At the same time, of course, what did we do? We succumbed to pressure, fell to four as government. Because only yesterday Mr. Kammenos said that she did not approve Mrs Merkel's views, in a meeting with Mr. Erdogan, regarding NATO patrols in Greek and Turkish territorial waters and just today they accepted them all, without any resistance. And if today is German the commander of NATO, in six months or less, if there is no extension or anything else, the commander will be Turkish and this Turkish will direct NATO and Turkish warships in order to sew them within Greek territorial waters. And really, what will NATO ships do? Will they prevent the invasion of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants and minimum refugees? Oh, no. They're just gonna bring them to the hot spots of the Aegean islands, but also to the other centers you're massively starting to build - you're trying, and you're going to make more, if something doesn't change - all over Greece. Really, who are the germans now? We also heard the Minister of National Defence the other day at a press conference that he gave to the Ministry of National Defence where he said, among other things, - and it is worth commenting - that "we did not choose hot spots or detention centres or anything else". So, on national security issues they don't have an opinion? The Minister responsible, the Minister of National Defence, doesn't he have an opinion? What does some people who are mostly hostile to the nation do not like their homeland, do they not like the Army, do they like anything, will you accept it impatiently? Hey, no! Are you really going to vote today - among other things - and Article 8 on non-governmental organisations, those non-governmental organisations which are literally involved in solvents and where all the bodies - not us - of the islands on which the issue exists, complain that neither the hospital doctors nor the port police can do anything? They go and find the "core" of NGOs, who do what they want to do literally. Or will you vote on Article 18 on detention centres? I would also like to make a small comment on something that has been heard this morning at the 'STAR' television station. You see, Golden Dawn does not have the ability to be present on live or other broadcasts and to respond to slanders and muds at the expense of the movement, the third political force. A main spokesman of POSY named Balaskas came out and said there is information that the fastoids of the Golden Dawn tomorrow will infiltrate the world, within the grand gathering - which all show that they will, with or without tractors - to create tension and to make their tracks. We respond to Mr Balaskas and his bosses who have put him to say all this, firstly, that the "fastoids" are legally elected by the Greek people, is a third political force for four consecutive elections. Secondly, the "fascist" of the Golden Dawn, the Chief, its MPs and the hundreds of thousands who voted for us and, it seems, the millions of others who agree with our ideas have the same rights as everyone else and can go to marches or elsewhere. Also, Golden Dawn did not go to make any spices on the question of farmers and elsewhere, although everyone talks about the Golden Dawn, very simply because we respect this race and we like to see the Greek flag and nothing else, no party flags or anything else. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stamatis, spoke about a number of things. First of all, he talked about the violation of the constitution. To say that, Mr. Stamatis, who was one of Samara's close teams who took the lead in the rape of democracy with the miserable, illegal persecution against the third political force and to speak of a violation of the Constitution is laughing. We would recommend that him hear the sound Samaras or the Baltaku video, so he can understand what this party did to the leading group of which was about two years ago, and now they're ‘ blowing it and it's not cold’. I would also like to remind Mr Stamatis, who said things to us, because we are talking about sanctions with acts of legislative content relating to NGOs, what Mr Mitsotakis did the other day that went to Lesvos. It was photographed on a hot spot and said "all good" and a background behind it was a banner of a non-governmental organization, Actionaid, which by the way is his sister Alexandra Mitsotakis, if I'm not mistaken. It was a good commercial. Free advertising. And would you ever expect Mr. Mitsotakis to have another view on this matter, against what his voters even believe?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u252	It's his niece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u253	His niece, what he is, I don't know. We also see the hard opposition promised by Mr.Mitsotakis, who came out from the first moment farmers' blocks became and said 'no on the blocks, we disagree with this mobilisation method'. Very well. The system makes it and brings it very well. That's what the world sees, and that's why you see every millions of goldsmiths everywhere, those who protest hot spots, those who protest on the blocks, those who protest everywhere. Because, apparently, those who agree with the ideas of the Golden Dawn are many more than the voters. I would like to make a more general comment on legislative acts. It seems funny to see SYRIZA MPs and executives struggling with the New Democracy, saying "not you brought many, you brought more" and everyone actually licking where he spit and mocking himself and the people who voted for them, with a number of funny excuses. We heard the SYRIZA's rapporteur talking about an article of today's bill on the humanitarian crisis. A humanitarian crisis, which you have found, but which you continue to do, and you do nothing on the substance of the matter, to correct it, with your greater denomination the third memorandum, which is the most burdensome of all. I would like to make a comment on Mr Stournara's visit yesterday to the Committee on Finance, where he informed us. To understand what happens, the first thing before yesterday's committee began was the president of the SYRIZA, saying that "we may be disagreeing with Mr Stournara, we may have other opinions, but he is an approved, good...". All right, by 5 July, you said the whole thing different. When Stournara spit on you and did not come to the House when he was summoned, then he was bad. Now, because you've found them and now you're working for the same boss, he's a very good and approved banker! It's not like that. Mr Stournaras told us, he almost moved the finger, that the evaluation must be finished - and, to remember, to finish the evaluation, the insurance and tax must be finished - so that the discussions can begin - be careful! - for debt relief. And he told us about the only relief that took place in 2012. Let us remind the simple world of what he meant: the PSI, the haircut, the puncture of the micronomists, the bonds that had public bodies, the insurance funds, which were cut and destroyed, but did not do the same for the various crows, the vultures, who did not accept a haircut and now go to the fund and collect 100% of the bond value. Therefore, this haircut only benefited the crows and no benefit to the Greek people, who paid for it very expensively. To comment in all, on the increase in the new head of the Financial Stability Fund at EUR 175,000 per year. You know, the Financial Stability Fund is this fund that takes the money, which the Greek people borrow, gives it to the Financial Stability Fund, and that in turn recapitalises the banks. You successfully recaptured the banks a few weeks ago. And what happened within three days? Thirty percent of this recapitalisation, with the fall of the stock exchange, went to the trash. And it wasn't just some private people you fooled and put their money on. You also required public bodies, insurance funds and others to contribute to this recapitalisation. One of the same, and you haven't changed anything. This bill has too many articles and we cannot talk about everything. It is not possible within twelve minutes, but it has no value at all. First of all, we say 'no' in principle, and that is for granted, because we are neither mocking ourselves nor the people who are voting for us. Legislative acts, as the Constitution says, only concern exceptional cases of urgency and unforeseen need. The 2015 legislative act of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which was issued, includes a number of arrangements on issues that do not occur either in the emergency or in the imperative of the urgent procedure, but are in fact published in planned, fully planned. We have seen in the past the government party characterise some acts of violence as good and others as bad, depending on who the perpetrators are. Now, the same phenomenon is observed in the legislative acts, for which SYRIZA plunged his garments when he was in the opposition, and now that he is adopting them he describes them as 'necessary acts', for that is how others have brought them to my attention. In fact, this is a mistake assumption of defeat, since the well-advertised parallel programme, which you partly deceived the Greek people in the previous elections, does not go any further. There's nothing going on at all, not even for the eyes of the world. And some nuggets that you were going to do, your bosses came - the Quartet - and they cast the curse on you and told you "nein!" And you said "ja"! On the substance, invoking as excellent and important reasons the risk of collapse of health structures or the need to address the humanitarian crisis, the government is preparing to pass graceful provisions for the benefit of a few and chosen, causing a number of questions about the purposes that may be behind these actions. We will remain in five articles worth commenting, such as Article 8 on non-governmental organisations, for which everyone is protesting: the EASA, the institutions, and even your people who are trying to do what their ideology suggests, but who find the rock of the NGOs. We see Articles 10 and 11 concerning the chartering of waterways. With a comfort you have made money in order for ships and all illegal immigrants to come from the islands here and be all good, sugar, the same time that there are islands in our Aegean islands or barren lines, because there is no illegal immigrants and because there are no subsidies or other stories, there are virtually no routes for Greek citizens. Another good thing is Article 12, which refers to the National Committee on Human Rights. What does this committee do? Here we see gender identification for transgender people. This article says that anyone can declare what they want, a man, a woman or something, without even having undergone surgery. Here the world is gone, boats are milking! We see in Article 18 reference to the asylum seekers' temporary residence centres. The Europeans are closing our borders, not even our partners. The gypsies put us in a fence, now they're making a second one, and we're getting a little gypsy. What are we doing here? We'll prepare space! And after the five hot spots - if they are made - there will be some centers in Attica and a few weeks later because there will be too many people we will have to do more and more and you will make all of Greece a storeroom of souls, without any prediction. Then you will go to the councils of Europe and say, as the Prime Minister said, that we do not want money, it is our duty, and at the same time Turkey will mock you, mock us all, and it will do what it wants, and it will not give anyone. I can't believe things happen. You have given land and water to all and the only thing you ask Greek citizens are constantly paying. Because of the latest information the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Musala, has also said - and more has come out -... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Incidentally, he's a gynecologist and I don't know his opinion of abortions and if abortions are murder, because he doesn't answer the questions of Golden Dawn, saying the slogan "blood, honor, Golden Dawn" bothers him. But when they're having abortions and killing unborn children, they're fine! So he told us that over the last two years Greece has paid more than EUR 2 billion for the issue of illegal immigration, and Europe has promised us EUR 450 million over five years of which we have only received EUR 33 million. The whole Greek society is being destroyed to care, housing, feeding, watering some who will be the cause of the dissolution of our homeland, our nation. But as long as there is the Golden Dawn, no matter how many redemptions you will bring us every day, we will be here and everywhere in order to defend our honor and our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have raised objections to constitutionality and you are asking the House to give its opinion. We shall therefore apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. They have the right to speak, which is Mr Constantine Javaras, the opponent of Mr Lappas, the Presidents of Parliament's groups who, as usual, are not speaking for the government. All of these have the right to speak for five minutes. We're starting with the caller, Mr. Constantine Javarra. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. A bill containing two acts of legislation is to be ratified in Parliament. And against the procedure, which is based on the provisions of Article 44(1) of the Constitution, we object to constitutionality. That is to say, we declare that it is an extremely unconstitutional procedure in which the Government has misused the provision of Article 44(1) otherwise in a pretext. In other words, a multi-legislative bill is being introduced, a draft law - 'Fruter', as it would have said - and if it were here, it would have been repeated - the current President of the Republic and, therefore, we put forward the following allegations that are based on unconstitutionality. First, on the basis of the provisions of Article 26(1), the Constitution adopts the principle of discrimination of powers, namely, that the legislative power is exclusively delegated to the House. This legislative power cannot be delegated by the House to other State bodies, except in the case of Article 43, where the right to regulatory action in administrative bodies may be granted by law and the so-called constitutional authority, which is the case, in the case of Article 44(1), on the basis of which the President of the Republic may adopt legislative acts where exceptional and unforeseeable circumstances are exceptional. In these cases there is an appeal under the rule of law of necessity, as it is said, because the state must not be interrupted if, for objective reasons, it is not possible for Parliament to meet and take decisions. It is precisely for this case that an exceptional procedure, i.e. a derogation from the normal legislative procedure, has been provided for in Article 44(1). And because it is excellent it will have to be applied after slumbers and after a thorough examination of the contribution to the conditions I have mentioned. Mr President, it should be mentioned that the case-law of the Council of State accepts that the assistance or non-existence of the conditions of the exceptional circumstance of the unforeseeable and exceptional need is not subject to judicial review, because exactly such a judicial investigation would be contrary to the political responsibility of the state bodies with that activity. That is why - I would point this out to the majority Members - the investigation we are going to do here should be about whether or not the conditions laid down in Rule 44(1) are met or not, is meticulous and, of course, under the guidance of the Prime Minister, who, from the step of the House, said to all of us, 'you are every single word from the Constitution. That is what you have sworn to, and that is what you serve." Therefore, none of these provisions which are regulations contained in the two specific legislative acts - I prefer it to the PPP, because the PPP hides the contradiction that exists and is manifest when the President of the Republic makes a legislative procedure - has not been adopted under exceptional circumstances. Because that's the first condition. And the exceptional circumstances are when there are objective reasons, objective circumstances because of which the House is prevented from meeting. Secondly, these regulations should be extremely urgent and not just urgent, as the title of this bill says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So to be urgent is not enough. They need to be extremely urgent. I mean, they need to be so urgent that they're irresistible. In this sense, therefore, none of these provisions is extremely urgent. Secondly, all the provisions should be unforeseen, at least those relating to the extension of the validity of the term of office of either time-limits or the term of office of collective bodies. It is obvious that they were predictable on 24 December 2015, issued by this first and second MDGs, as you say, an act of legislation, because it was well known that there was a final limit on the functioning of the collective bodies or on the deadlines mentioned, which could have been dealt with very soon under the normal legislative procedure. Finally, what is of great value, and we must all have a point of view, is that the application of the provisions of the Constitution is an end in itself for the representatives of the Greek people. The invoking of any other value, whether to deal with issues of the humanitarian crisis or to other issues of a current nature, cannot lead to a fall in the principle of Article 26, that is to say, discrimination of powers, which is a fundamental provision of the Constitution. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is how we lead to a precedent, which cannot be combined or associated with any previous behaviour in this House, since the risk of a change in the constitution arises enormously and threatening, that is to say, the risk of using the normal and normal legislative procedure, which, as the former President of this House has said, is a decisive reason not to function properly in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Javarra, firstly, 'zero insane'. Secondly, all your arguments were essentially a wisdom. I don't call it insulting. As the wise men chose exaggeration as a means of persuasion, this is what you do throughout your rhetoric and your argument. Let us speak as lawyers and lawyers in particular, and then we will see the political dimension of the problem. For the sake of legal and constitutional reasons, the objection you have raised is a point of objection affecting corpus, the formal constitutionality which is mentioned in the procedure and not in substance, animus. That's what we agree. One of the prisoners. Secondly, however, you have necessarily argued about the substance of animus. While your objection has a dimension of formal unconstitutionalism, you argue law about corpus. Let us overlook it at the moment. Although they are inappropriate and are not legally permissible, you do. I accept it and we go to the point, if you want. I have told you that the objections of anti-constitutionalism submitted to the House should be made in the way, with the philosophy and with the science of the Constitution, simple, coherent, strict. You have become a political argument suggesting objections of anti-constitutionality including and confusing essentially political arguments. So let's go further. I have told you, Mr Javarra, on several occasions that, in the science of Constitutional Law, even in formal terms, the objection of constitutionality must be met, three strict conditions must be met that must be cumulatively met. I'm telling you. Firstly, the fact that the strictness of the Constitution, the principle of separation of functions - Article 26 of the Constitution - and the fact that the Constitution is to be introduced as a fundamental law, these must be specified in your objection and must be cumulatively challenged. I'm overlooking it. Invoke Article 44(1) of the Constitution and say that it does not exist here, is not established, the nature of the unforeseen as set out in Article 44 is not fulfilled. I'm telling you something from the conclusion of the Scientific Service of the House. First of all, we agree that the assessment of the requirements of the MDG is left to the legislator and the Constitution alone in the House. It is not subject to judicial work as you accept it and say so. So the House must hear whether or not the conditions exist is the House, and that is what we will be talking about. According to settled case-law of the Council of State, the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 44 is stable, is well-established. That is why there is no doubt about it. Let us see now, ladies and gentlemen, your own PPP, some of which were never ratified by Parliament, was a PPP of a kind of cumulative precipitation of pensions and salaries, a closure of the ERT. There you had unpredictable and asymmetrical conditions. I'm overlooking it. Well, let's see what the NSA says. Is it or is it not an unforeseen Treaty, within the meaning of Article 44, subject to all the financial provisions for the management, in the context of current, this year's health incidents? Do you think that's unpredictable? Is it predictable what's going on around the issue of health? With terrorism, fear, terror and anguish, the Greek citizen opens every day the newspaper's leaves for what is related to the issue of influenza and other health issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u258	Is the cumulation of the wineries unpredictable? The nineteen articles are unforeseen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u259	The issue of the end-dates which expired on 31 December and which was in danger of collapseing a series of state structures is not an unforeseen treaty? Would you accept a collapse of state structures, Mr. Javarra? Does the philosophy and concept of the rule of law permit that? Breaking down state structures from the fact that we can't reassign a date? Let's go down. Do you think the supply of drugs does not constitute an unforeseen event? Can you deprive Greek society of drugs? Let's go down. We've got another CDC thing. The Department of Psychiatric Health, and this can be left in the future? Let's go to a regular legislative initiative too. What else can I tell you? Can I talk to you about EPPY? Can I tell you about the refugee and immigration? For the purpose of regulating and establishing the operation of temporary accommodation centres? For the elderly daily care centres, the social welfare centres that have to be extended by nine months, so that we can be okay? In general terms, I say to you: 'Do not use the objections of anti-constitutionality, to put forward political arguments!'. Don't you just hurt the Constitution?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u260	Did you say "walk"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u261	Of course, shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u262	"Fly"? That's suffocation. Are you a law-approved person addressing and saying "false"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u263	I'm sorry, I just wanted to say "stop". I'm making it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u264	Instead of saying'say as many anti-constitutional objections as you have, should we discuss them', you say'stop'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u265	Correct, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u266	Stop, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u267	Mr Javarra, the colleague has spontaneously corrected and said 'Stop'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u268	You're tearing down the substance once more, Mr. Javarra, and I'm sorry about that. I have something to tell you. The objections to unconstitutionalism - I repeat - must respect a regime of rigour, consistency and reflection, because this is how the Constitution imposes. It is not possible for any political disagreement that you have to come and say about objections of constitutionality. How many objections have you made in the last month only? What are you projecting again? Politics, and indeed - we would say - on matters that you should have a great deal of complicity on. Because your PPPs have destroyed structures, destroyed workers and a number of other services in the state, which we today with PPPs of ours are trying to correct. This is our effort, and that's where it tends, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Javarra, let's finish. Don't start this. My colleague rescinded, saying he was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u271	I want to say one more thing. In addressing me, he said: 'Not without a single'. I respond to 'Clazomeni' amusement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u272	All right, we solved the issue between lawyers. You're more impulsive than doctors, to lighten the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I just want to say a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Lappa, say the phrase and we'll be done. We're having little kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Kaklamani, one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u276	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Javarra, "the whole city of the city is like the rulers."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u278	You'll have to laugh at them a little, because we don't all know them. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down! First of all, let me remind you, because colleagues have said 'the articles we would vote on', that the greatest disadvantage in legislative acts, for me, is that there is no possibility of voting on articles. Vote en bloc. It's not a question of whether we want to or don't want to. That's the big disadvantage. While there could indeed be half the articles, which received two hundred and fifty votes, as this possibility is lost. This is the big MOP minus and all the others that the experts have said. Because they have already spoken with two colleagues from New Democracy and SYRIZA, if Mr Dendias and Mr Mandas agree, I should like to start by Mr Loverdos and the two parliamentary representatives, Mr Dendias and you, to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u279	Whatever you want, Mr President. Mr. Tendas, do you accept that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u280	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u281	Okay. Then he will speak on behalf of the government, any minister who wants it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u282	Aren't the other rapporteurs going to talk? Will the process of rapporteurs not continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u283	Then. Of course, it will continue. We're not done. We're in Mr. Panayotaro. Immediately after that, it's Mr. Koutsukos talking. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for five minutes to talk about unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u284	There are very often references to a lack of respect for the government's majority and the government as a whole. I agree with this lack of respect. And if we move on to its practical results, what we have seen on Monday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which was working on this act of legislation - and which has been worked out for seven hours - has had the negative effect of what you said: whereas from all the parties you were listening to individual provisions, in practice, since we had to vote on two final articles, with so many provisions, for these two separate legislative acts, we could only say, on the basis of our evenings, 'OECD' or 'PARON', whichever party. Mr Javarras is right in his argument, formulated on the basis of their interpretation of Article 44(1) of the Constitution. To make arrangements, such as the one contained in these acts of legislation on the ground, for example, the Ministry of Infrastructure, is a management move, which could well be done in any other normal legislation that comes under normal procedures. That's what's bothering you. Why are you doing this? Aren't you guarding powers from the legislator in his tactical function? You're puffing. Is there any exceptional emergency? Even if there is, which I cannot know, the need for legislative work to go a little bit quickly, comes with an amendment, before or shortly after the holidays on 7 January. Why does it have to be a legislative act? And as I have said in a special study, which I have done and which I have mentioned in Parliament, and which has been explained here by the majority children, which we welcomed, when they brought their first act of legislative curiosity, in the words of Alekos Alavanos 'good children!', they prove to be pioneers in the implementation of Parliament's powers. They turn out to be real pioneers! They are so used to it, that every legislative need for them to do so is self-evident. And they filled in the social field and challengers. Many times I have been in discussions that tell me "why not do this and with PPP?" He obtained regularity the legislative work of an authoritarian majority, through the MIPs. However, there is a need to ratify these two legislative acts. Mr. Javarra, what are we going to do? Aren't we going to ratify them? In other words, there is the economy of Parliament's work. And in this case, I do not think that there are issues of the highest political confrontation that reaches the point and the break, so that we can accept unfounded arguments of anti-constitutionality. On the other hand, however, we would like to make this terrible logic clear: 'What I have is what I bring with PPP and then end it tomorrow morning, and then I do, since my Members, in this respect, will not raise any objections'. Mr President, there is a problem. We have a number of amendments, with huge issues. We have amendments that come in ratification procedures. I'll see you this afternoon about it. They've gone too far. And the opposition must not legitimise this anti-ethnic and some measure of anti-constitutional practice. However, because the days and actions pass are to be ratified, in order for there to be a regularity in the legal life of the place, we will not express an opinion. We have, I think, recorded our views scientifically and politically, but we are not going to vote 'HER'. We shall be voting on 'APPROVAL'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u285	If parliamentarians don't raise their hand, I'll be there in turn. And it goes without saying, because Mr Papapas is not in the Chamber - if he comes during the debate, he will have the right to speak - the reason is now the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanasis Pafilis. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. After the duel with the ancient Greeks of Mr.Javara and Mr. Lappa, we could say that it is a tragedy that this debate is taking place in today's data. It's a real mockery against the Greek people. It is literally a mockery for two reasons: first, the conditions have been reversed. In every bill, when SYRIZA was Opposition, he put the issue of unconstitutionality. Now you come and you do exactly the same. You're putting the issue of unconstitutionalism almost - I'm pretty sure - on every bill. This is a mockery against the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u287	So you don't believe in the Constitution, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u288	The student is overcoming the teacher, and the teacher is coming back to resurrect the student. That's what we're living for. It's literally a mockery against the world! And the second reason, which is even greater mockery, is what you said "revolutionary gymnastics". So, who's got a majority? Is there any chance that unconstitutionalism will pass, and when the opposition to unconstitutionalism was made by SYRIZA and now by New Democracy? What's the point? That's what happens about strategically there's an agreement. The fight is taking place in the individual. They are trying to create various impressions. It reminds me of the old duels. I don't want to describe them now. We are not going to enter this debate from now on. We literally consider it to be a mockery. And we can't make fun of both the Greek people and ourselves. I'm really wondering, aren't you both ashamed? And this question is a political one. It's not personal. Isn't that what you're doing? When you were a government - and the New Democracy and the PASOK - you brought legislative action. And most serious, not just serious. Were you going through them? You went through them. What did SYRIZA say then? ‘Coup d'état!’ Every day we had a coup, too. Now it's changing. These roles are changing. And instead of actually confronting the substance, you throw the ball on the platform, so that you can collect the displeasure of the Greek people and the others to say the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u289	I assume that at the time of the vote your position will also be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, please, on personal grounds. I have a personal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Javarra, you will allow me. The procedure will be completed and before the vote I will give you the floor on the personal matter. But please let us end up somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u292	No, the reason must be given immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u293	If for what it sounds, there's a staff thing coming up...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u294	But it is addressed to colleagues and says they should be ashamed. Shame on you, Mr. President, for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u295	But Mr. Pachilis has not been addressed to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u296	I'm not ashamed of this thing and I'll never be ashamed of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u297	That's a good record. He didn't address you. He didn't refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u298	Don't do what you don't understand. Politically I spoke, not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Paphie, you're both old. Don't do this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u300	We democracy, Thanasis, are not bored. If you guys are sick of her and want someone else, you're going to North Korea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Javarra, please too! That's all in your speech. Then make the ideological positions. I'm not going to allow a break again! Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and three teachers from the 2nd Tripolis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pappa, because I had already announced Mr. Amyras, I will give you the floor. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. The question whether or not it is a question of unconstitutionalism, I think we should turn to the words of someone who is well aware and from the point of view of legislative content. Today's President of Parliament, Nikos Voutsis, had said so clearly: 'Working inspiration'. He told the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on December 11, 2012. And if he didn't know what Mr. Voutsis said, let's go back to what Mr. Tsipras said on November 19, 2012: "They go on with legislative acts, like the country is in a state of war and in a siege of siege," colleagues, particularly SYRIZA. I ask, then, what are we in the siege of siege? I would also like to ask the SYRIZA's dearest parliamentary representative a special question, asking him: What is the urgent need, ladies and gentlemen, for your government to bring us in accordance with Article 14 of this draft law to amend Article 1 of the Treaty. 4320? In simple terms, with this modification you are reducing, cutting off the free electricity for poor households and of the three thousand six hundred kilowatts a year you are now giving them free two thousand three thousand kilowatts. Is that the urgent need? Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the government's representatives' replies to these questions and we are looking forward to the issue of unconstitutionality or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u303	And I thank you for the brief time. Mr Pappa, you have the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I have already heard you from the closed television circuit and to remove any misunderstanding I have come down from the office to place myself, because the tactics of the non-existence is known, I would say, New Democracy - the world is collecting it and its voters - to denounce the Golden Dawn as the tail of the SYRIZA and to wake up the left - let us say so - reflecting its voters, forgetting that it is the same party that last August voted with SYRIZA in the Memorandum with SYRIZA, the poor so-called 'left memorandum'. Because it's not left. It is a memorandum similar to the other two Memorandums, the Right, the New Democracy and the previous Couples. So that's a memorial to both the right and the left. You are, gentlemen of the New Democracy, co-responsible! There was once here a PASOK MP, old, forgiven, who said "you have no right to speak". I will repeat his words: you have no right to speak, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and soon, because you are a party that is crumbling, you will understand that the tactics you are following, that is to say, become the tail of the SYRIZA, and not the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, will put you once and for all on the margin. It is this party, like the PASOK which has shrinked since the economic crisis and the memorandum, which is about to shrink. This, to close any misunderstandings. We in the edifice, I would say, confrontation between SYRIZA and the New Democracy and the proposal on anti-constitutionality, are and say that, yes, they are acts which poorly come to the Greek Parliament. Unfortunately, the Greek Parliament at the moment plays a decorative role. It is supposed to be legislative power and we are supposed to be legislating and the Member is voting at will, which is not done. Nor is the Member voting willingly. The MP is voting as a sheep in the mantle, whatever the party leadership says, and if there is at the moment - at least so far - a parliamentary majority, on behalf of the Government, of the two parties, SYRIZA and ANEL, whatever you bring, will pass it. We're here to denounce this nonsense. That is the role of the nationalist movement. I would like to say, Mr President, that we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. We're not participating.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, with the only point that the three hundred have the right to speak in this Chamber and no one can deprive them of it. We move on to Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, on behalf of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u306	It was a rhetoric, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u307	Accepted, Mr. Pappa. Okay, because you invoked relentless, who didn't say it that way, as you said it. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that everyone would like the legislative acts to be permanently and irrevocably removed. The smooth functioning of the House, I believe, will not need them. But I want - although I avoid going back to the past - to remind you what exactly this government found when it came to power a year ago. I would therefore like to remind you by number: one and a half million Greeks below the poverty line. Three million uninsured Greeks. Three thousand, young mostly children, had already left. Unemployment formally and formally measured was one and a half million, in fact it was over two and a half million. I could say many more, such as a million citizens - for example - were going and handed over the car plates because they had no money to release. And because I happen to have more to do with man - because it is my job - I am telling you right away that the phrase 'humanist crisis' for those who do not want to see it was and is on the door. There are homeless people. Ask the municipalities to whom they give every day portions of the piles, the Church, the Ministry of National Defence and many citizens. If this does not compose a very special situation - which I believe is unprecedented and for the first time is happening in the country after World War II - an incredible reality to which immigration is added, as our country has become an entry gate for 90% of people whether they are economic immigrants or refugees, if they do not make up the word 'urgent', what do they compose? I don't want to say any more. I am a year in this House and it is abused to the extent that no one no longer counts the word unconstitutionalism. Some people in an amazement - and I am not talking about today - say the term unconstitutional. Sounds like it all the time. Something that I thought was very serious, such as putting the issue of unconstitutionalism - it is a very serious story and I see it with awe, so I want to see it - it has been corrupted in my eyes. I would therefore like to believe that the criticism made of legislative acts is meaningless. A man speaking to you in this bill that came - the parallel I mean - has studied it with great care. And I believe that some of these issues could not delay a second. I am sorry, but I think that the issue raised has no basis, even if I am not a legal person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u309	And we close with Mr. Dimitrios Karras on behalf of the Centro Association on the objection of unconstitutionality. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into political matters. But I'm obliged to spend the fifth decade of service in legal science. The Constitution of Greece is the Gospel, which we must keep in this Chamber. Why am I saying that? The main distinction in the Constitution, which allows the constitutional order to be changed to the question of legislating which is the highest democratic function, is legislative acts. It is an exception to the absolute rule of democratic order. What, then, should legislative acts be? Indeed, it is the absolute need, the unpredictable need and I will fully agree with Mr Javarra. I would also like to agree with Mr Lappa that the Council of State has removed the possibility of monitoring the interna corporis of the House so that there is no constitutional review of the acts of legislation. However, this legal shortage does not mean, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the power to control compliance with the conditions of existence is being removed or not for the adoption of a legislative act by Parliament itself. Therefore, the judge who comes is the House itself today. It is therefore right to discuss the question in this Chamber whether or not the way in which the acts of legislation cover the conditions under which they come. The House itself must decide today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on that. We therefore have two legislative acts, which are a summation - and let me express - of provisions. Some of them, in fact, have to say that they cover marginally the constitutional need for unforeseen needs so that they are legislative acts and then come to Parliament. Others, however, manifest an indifference governmental, an negligence of state administration. I will give some examples. In the actions, the first of them, which the government is now proposing to vote on, includes Article 9, which tells us that the provisional authorisations of PPC's facilities are extended. I have read, therefore, what is the absolute need to vote by means of an act of legislation on the extension of PPC's power stations. But since 2001, Mr President - read, please - most of PPC's facilities have been operating on temporary leave. So, for the past sixteen years, he's been coming to tell us today that an undeniable need has arisen? Secondly, the interventions in the Customs Code on the method of payment of a fine, Article 2 of the second act of legislation. But, for God's sake, do we have a Public Income Receipt Code and a huge arsenal for the collection of revenues either validated or taxed and the customs of the state, and say that we will regulate it by legislative act? The third, which is also naive - will you allow me to say - Article 13 of the second act, what does it say to us? It tells us that, when the first act is published at the National Print Office by mistake, the first will apply. Forgive me. Don't say the word that comes from me. That is naive at least because the case-law of the Council of State has resolved when the time-limits for appeal and application for annulment are taken into account. These issues have been resolved, Mr President. So, should the House, to tell us when the legislature starts the validity of an act, so that the deadline for the action or the request for annulment begins? For God's sake! We also have rich courts from the point of view of producing case-law, and we have, Mr President, a point of view, if you like. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that I call for the two actions to be withdrawn. Why am I saying this, Mr President? No one's gonna mind. If these two acts are withdrawn today, there is a period of three months until they are ratified, because they have been deposited within forty days. Let us come to a real legislative procedure in the ordinary legislative procedure. At least, we, for our part, declare that we will vote for the positive provisions relating to the humanitarian crisis, in real arrangements. And not to be urgent, however, we will put them under the suffering of the House, to see if there is a need for regulation. After that, from the point of view of legal distortion - and we are putting it alone, Mr President - I have to say that it is unconstitutional to say that the way they are imported is unconstitutional. In any case, I call again for them to come back under the ordinary legislative procedure. There's a deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u311	Your position is clear. The appeal simply makes no sense in the sense, Mr Carras, that this issue was raised by me in the Conference of Presidents and rejected. We are now coming to the two parliamentary representatives, Mr Teddy and Mr Manda, to close the positions of the parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the government, I have been informed that Minister Paradise will answer. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would conclude almost entirely with Mr Karras's colleague's position, with only differentiation on the subject of the call. I'm explaining. First of all, the distinction of powers is guaranteed, at the level of western culture at least, after the adoption of the Montesquieu Law Spirit, as a basic principle of the functioning of our legal system and our existing constitution, ladies and gentlemen, finds its foundation in Article 26. There is an exception to that principle. This exception is, as our diligent rapporteur Mr Javarras rightly pointed out, in Rule 44(2). 1 of the current Constitution of the Hellenic Republic, which requires cumulatively that the following should apply: exceptional cases of extreme urgency and unforeseen need, cumulatively and not diabeticly. Also, as Mr Javarras would have told you, if he had time, all of this must arise from the external circumstances and not from the act itself. We, therefore, who have the obligation, by the oath or by the word of honour we have here, to respect the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic in such a way that, ladies and gentlemen, we are bound, not by the party position of each, to see from the two acts of legislation if there are the elements required by the constitutional legislature in Article 44 para. 1. I therefore invoke your honour and reputation or your religious oath, and ask you: Is the extension of the temporary authorisation of PPC's units, the consolidation of wineries, the modification of the Customs Code, or indeed, the modification of the specific framework for spatial planning and sustainable development for aquaculture or the issues of the National Printing Office require, in exceptional cases of exceptional urgency and unforeseeable urgency? And is it an institutional response from the Left to this Chamber that someone else did this a year ago? Is this the left-wing institutional answer to the question of Article 120, formerly 1-1-4, on the observance of the Constitution on the patriotism of the Greeks? Is that your answer? And I am pleased, Mr President, that the university teacher will see the Minister of Justice. For honestly, Minister, I am very interested to hear how you will be able to support the constitutionality of this text, regardless of the feasibility of coming here. And you will allow me the opportunity - because I was not in the House that day - to tell you something else. The Left Government is slowly and gradually pushing towards arbitraryness and I have never expected your Ministry, on your own government, to vote on the non-conformity with the terms of the law on media. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you know, arbitraryness is not an air that suddenly enters the door and calls the universe. It is a slow descent through mysterious excuses, many times, and good intentions, which are very often encountered in societies during judgment times. We here, however, not everyone separately according to the party to which it belongs, but all together as a national parliament, according to our honour and oath, have an obligation to resist, even if we unleash a government or displease a friend of our Minister. That is our national duty. And our national duty is not only judged on the large ones, it is judged on the ones which in the first instance seem small, but which is the beginning of the great catastrophe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the objection of unconstitutionalism and the arguments on this point, as well as the distances which the other opposition parties have held, each in their own way, from holding a positive stand on this. I also listen very carefully to Mr.Javaras and Mr. Deedias and welcome him to the struggle that the Greek Parliament must give to all kinds of arbitrary and authoritarianism. I think, however, that in this Chamber we should not forget things selectively. What I think is the gap in the argument - I, in fact, have any other dimensions to discuss - of the Officerial Opposition is the simple thing: ladies and gentlemen, of the Officerial Opposition, unfortunately it was before the celebrations that we had a legislative initiative under way. And many important articles - I'm not saying all - and critical articles were in this piece of legislation. Perhaps it is a job for the history of the future to see exactly what happened and this process was interrupted, but it has, of course, been interrupted. I don't want to say a lot of things right now. However, I would like to say that, objectively, whether you wanted it or not, you have contributed, in your own attitude, to this interruption and indeed we have found ourselves on many issues, which if they were not resolved, we would have very serious problems. After all, it is no coincidence that most Members in one way or another say that a large part - I counted almost 80%, from Mr Stamatis' listing in committee - would vote for it. So let's talk about it all. That is what I have to point out, as we do, as we do, and that is addressed to all sides and to the government if you want - so that we can minimize this process. Last but not least, we must not forget, unless we see it otherwise, and I think it is very crucial to see that we are living in conditions that are truly unprecedented both for Greek democracy and for the functioning of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u315	It wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u316	It's always like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u317	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u318	Just a minute, Mr. Bourra, don't interrupt me. It's been like this for the last time. And it is so much more so, because not only domestic, but also outside, is it possible to stop this effort, this left-wing project in our country, which seems to be spreading, and that is very disturbing to some who are trying, one way or another, to limit our ability to operate, as we would like to be and unfortunately find supporters within our country as well. So - and I am ending this - I think we should say all the facts. The fact was that there was a legislative procedure under way, which was interrupted and everyone can draw their conclusions from it. And we must make every effort - and I think that we are all in agreement with this, from all the wings of this House - so that we can minimize and be very strict in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u319	And we are finishing the debate on the issue of unconstitutionalism with the Government's position, Minister Paradise. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting to have the constitutionality or not of the legislative act which is being discussed today. First of all, I would say that the procedure may be discussed in full with a view to ratifying the question of substantial assistance for exceptional circumstances, because the procedure is now a ratification process. I think the most appropriate time to discuss these issues would be the time for parliamentary scrutiny, in view of the fact that the act of legislation was in effect to date. However, I would like to make some arguments, which are clearly essential. I agree that the mistakes of the past in no way legalise errors of the present or future. We need not, however, ignore the fact that they are in a situation of acceleration and social and political life, but also the real needs of the country and the economy, the need for legislation at a speed of time is unirreversible. Thus, the fact that in recent years and the present government and the previous ones have increasingly made use of its tactics by means of a legislative act is, however, a practice of implementing the Constitution, which should indeed be taken into account. Of course, the main argument is that the Act of Legislative Content is being undermined or ignored by the principle of discrimination based on Article 26 of the Constitution. The truth is that the rule of our Constitution is that the three powers are distinguished. Our own Constitution, however, either in exceptional circumstances or in established circumstances, provides for powers to be cross-checked as an exception, I would say in some cases also as a frequent exception. I would remind you that the crisis of the highest judges falls within the executive power, as well as the fact of the disciplinary proceedings of judges not part of the judiciary, but of course not in the executive and not in Article 44 concerning the Acts of Legislative Content merely, but Article 43, the earlier article, which confers regulatory powers on the Government. Therefore, rationally for certain reasons - which in some cases are not even exceptional - we have instances of cross-border powers. Why is that? Because the Constitution enshrines many principles either organisational, individual rights or other principles of the constitution, which cannot always be harmonious. In some cases they necessarily come into conflict. This conflict is resolved by the recognition of exceptions through the Constitution itself and, in many cases, in the form of general clauses. Mr Denktash rightly reminded us of the question of the use of illegally acquired evidence and has overlooked it in this respect. You are right, Mr Tindemans, because it is another case where we have constitutional principles, provisions and purposes that are conflicting. Who doubts the Constitution? We can't question it. The Constitution expressly states that it does not want the illegally acquired means to be used. But there is something else that our Constitution does not want, except abuse of the right: justice cannot work. It safeguards the right of citizens to appeal to the courts. If the only means of proof cannot be used, that means that justice is abolished. Justice cannot be granted, the citizen cannot go to justice to find his right. Does he want this constitution? Oh, no. The Constitution wants one and the other, but both of them can't coexist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u321	It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u322	What can we do? Balance, as justice always does by keeping scales on its symbol. The previous arrangement, such compensation introduced criteria that are constitutionally tolerable again, i.e. it is only the means of proof, that proportionality exists, and that the way in which it is acquired does not affect human dignity. Here we have another issue where a constitutional authority has constitutional exceptions, and that is why the provision is completely constitutional. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality has been completed. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] Evidently, the fewer were raised. The opposition to anti-constitutionalism therefore did not gather the required number of Members and is rejected. We continue the debate with Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos, a special speaker of the Democratic Partnership.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u324	Good, Mr President, now, since the Minister for Justice, who spoke, put things in order, as there was one opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Kutsuko, excuse me. Please, ladies and gentlemen, either sit or leave. Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should go to the essence of the regulation of the two acts of legislation, which is clearly a removal of legislative power from the Greek Parliament and its transfer to the executive authority. And yes, but the fact is that no-one disputes the fact that, in the legislative acts of the Parliament, as far as the people's mandate and the requirements of the Constitution are concerned, it is being restricted. And if this were to happen in a few rare, exceptional cases as Article 44 of the Constitution says, much more in urgent needs, no one would object. In addition, Mr. Paradigmopoulos, with his position, has essentially devised the whole argument of the majority when he was opposition, which was talking about coups of previous legislative acts. But, ladies and gentlemen, is these two legislative acts an isolated incident? In other words, 'the loss and the fall', which our people say or is a custom of the government, which, in fact, has removed from Parliament its legislative powers and the ability of Members to shape the provisions of the bills? Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the most contradictory here in the debate. In other words, we have been told by some government ministers that these are mature demands. 'These are requests which we have put to the parallel programme.' We, too, prevented you from voting for them, and therefore, according to the needs of the people, you did not bring them to the House - while the House was running until 23 December - and these provisions were passed by two legislative acts, on Christmas Eve and on New Year Eve. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you will consider this procedure, and it will be a custom that will not end. And, of course, we have not spoken to the committee in the well-known way that you have been talking all these years about coups and junta. However, we were reminded by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Dritsas, who told us that acts of legislative content should come in order to remember coups. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the March 2015 Act of Legislative Action, which put debtors more than one million into their hundreds, giving them fines and increments - tax evasion - what was it? The operation by which banks closed down and entered capital control - the repeated legislative acts - what was it? What was it, if it were not coups, to remove the reserves of the public sector and of the EBRD? We therefore have a practice, which essentially comes to implement a government plan that takes away powers from Parliament, as was done by removing powers from the independent authorities, from the PSE, but much more from the committees of Parliament, which, according to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution, are responsible for drafting the bills. The example is that in these legislative acts, as in the ratification of conventions, the government is tabling very important amendments, which we do not just have time to discuss, not just we cannot call on the institutions to tell us what we are thinking, but not even the majority Members of the House are able to understand and are forced, because of a party duty, to vote. This is the big issue, namely the spreading into authoritarian methods of governance, which you would not say on the left! The second point is that, ladies and gentlemen, in these fifty-seven articles included in the two legislative acts, the government's failure to deal with urgent questions and organise government work is reflected. Because it is well known to everyone that many of these issues had an expiry date, others on 31 December, etc. The ministers are there over a year and the House, as I said earlier, was working until 23 December. So they chose to put these in a bill a hundred and twenty - please! - articles to show them as a parallel programme, in other words, a pre-election commitment by SYRIZA, which has nothing to do with the parallel programme of Thessaloniki. And when this bill was taken back - not because we put issues of procedure, but because they themselves had created the conditions of their self-pity - they put them in the act of legislative content. The second major issue is how the place is governed and how the ministers operate and legislate. I am going to set out very specific examples below. It is characteristic that of these fifty-seven Articles, twenty-seven are extensions of contracts and deadlines, the seven are exceptionally arrangements which embodi and suspicions of opacity and the rest are other arrangements. Stone horns sprinkled! In other words, if this bill should have a title in principle, that title would be: ‘Departures, suspensions and exceptions’. And now, on the one hand, we have the government's political will to remove powers from Parliament and transfer them to executive power and, on the other, management inability, the inability to organise the government's work. And they combine these with a framework, ladies and gentlemen, the management of the country's budgetary commitments, which has created a huge deadlock and created a blind conflict between the government and the social groups. Mr Chakalotos, who was asked by the members of the committee, told us that we were at the first stage of the final phase of the first evaluation. He told us that the institutions have accepted the structure of insurance and taxation, but there is a difference, because there is still no agreement in the budget gap or in the return of measures. At the same time, Mr Stournaras said yesterday to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - 'If we are to be welcomed, we are to be burned'. In this context, therefore, the framework of this deadlock following the reaction of the whole society to tax evasion measures appears entangled. We therefore have a threefold: the administration's perceptions and regulations, bad legislative practice and the government's failure to organise the government's work and the government's self-confidence in the deadlocks. In this context, therefore, the government obviously, after seeing that it was unable to regulate all the issues that had to be dealt with, put them in legislative acts. I told the committee yesterday, Mr. Xanthos, that the patches are fine, but with the patches, the National Health System does not stand at its feet. No one would object to any provisions coming here and voting for the extension of subsidiary contracts or the extension of contracts to hospitals. What can we do? Should we leave the hospitals without medication? However, the obligations of Mr Xanthos, ladies and gentlemen, are as follows: First of all, to structure the CEDEFOP. The PESY is the Primary Network of Health Services, which the law says should be structured per municipality and recruited by doctors. We cannot continue to extend the contractors. Mr. Xanthos' obligation is to build the new public supply system, not to tell us that the existing system is preventing supplies, that is, the patron in court asking for custody because he is an orphan. It's his responsibility to do it. What's he doing there a year? We also told Mr Dritsa that yes, to extend the contracts he made during the summer, because we cannot allow people to drown in the islands. We have to transfer them. But what's the point of bypassing v. 4281 referring to public procurement, in transparent terms, in procedures and in building a legislative framework of its own to make the notices of the contracts for the chartering of ships? We have said, but no one has heard us - and I see no one here from the Ministry of Migration - that, ladies and gentlemen, Article 8 in one act of legislation and Article 18 in another, concerning asylum services and detention centres should be discussed, to see the weaknesses that come to be solved by legislative acts, while the government has taken up another bill for all these procedures, which will be brought to Parliament at some point. A very serious issue, which is immigration, which troubles the country and there is a need for better coordination, organisation and presence of all the mechanisms and services of the state, cannot be solved by fragmentary provisions in legislative acts. We have also said to Mrs Theanoo Fotio: All right, you have brought a programme for the humanitarian crisis of 200 million - under the circumstances, far below what you have said - and you have not been able to implement it. You couldn't give the power, the feeding cards, give the accommodation, and so on. You extended from 2015 to 2016. Good. What can we do? Lost the money? Should people stay on the streets? Oh, no. But don't tell us, Mrs. Fotio, when we criticize you, that you can't organize your work, that you received the Freudian booklets. It's an insult! It is an insult, because our democracy has been mediated, and our prolongation, which organised a welfare system, which, even in the crisis, tolerated: the care centers of the elderly, the KIFH, the "Help at Home", the TEVA, the minimum guaranteed income, the pilot project of Mr. Kegeroglou. It's not the Freudian booklets, Ms. Theano Fotio, these. I would say that your policy is remedial when you get NGO evaluation from the regions and from the regional councils and transfer them to your ministry. That's reconfiguration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we could say too much. Should we not comment on the fact that you are prolonging HICP's exemption from HICP's, you who denounced us here, in this Chamber why did we grant a discharge to the properties of HICP and said you would abolish them? Do we not criticise Mr Spirtzi, who, in his regulation, will be able to make special accounts in order to make advances to those who were called the party who now serves here in Parliament, 'national contractors', 'interconnected'? Imagine if we had done this, what we would have heard! So, ladies and gentlemen, the nature of the arrangements is that. And if they came here under the normal procedure, we could have voted for them, the majority would have helped to correct - I am sure - many of them and others, for reasons of principle, would have voted against them. Consequently, in principle this draft law cannot be voted on. And what is important - and I shall conclude, Mr President - is that this debate is taking place in an environment where the government presents these regulations and the others of the so-called 'parallel programme' as a policy which responds to the people's demands, while the people are on the way out for the sake of the policy organized by the SYRIZA Government. And the government - Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Gerovas and the government - sees against popular mobilisations either instigators or the system of interlocutory, which wants to go back on the big changes. They do not realize that they do not have a plan of progress, that they cannot secure social consensus and political agreement and that they are trying to load their own policy on others and make them accomplices. Well, in this policy of transferring responsibilities, we're not going to consent. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have the responsibility of solving the problems of the people. And if you can't tell us, let's see what we're gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u327	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u328	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u329	In order not to create false impressions both in Parliament and in the world, Mr Koutsoukos said about advances. Where did you see the advances? Tell us. Here is a very specific process, which helps two things. We had the work of the MOREA, which we inherited from your own governments. There was a negotiation that came to Parliament and was voted on so that we could have another procedure, because it was also requested by the banks that have financed the projects. That's it. Money and funding are now guaranteed to pay the motorways, so that we can achieve the goal of its completion in March 2017. Did anyone take money in his hands or on his account? Either we should leave it and have the well-known problems created by your own governments, or we should find a procedure that ensures the financing of the projects. There's no deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u332	Please, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u333	We're in the same room and we're reading the same bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u334	Same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u335	Because I have the impression that we are elsewhere, Mr. Spirtz at least. I am referring to Article 31...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u336	Article 31.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u337	... where it is established by way of exceptions to public accounting and budget provisions, special accounts to give advances. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u338	What advances?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u339	Now, if Mr Spirtzis cannot, on the basis of the existing provisions, implement the public's commitments, he can tell us. And if what I said doesn't apply, let him withdraw them. In any case, Mr President, I, in my specific position, did not criticise the past of the SYRIZA regulations and the 300 million additional remuneration to Morrea. I put it in another conversation. However, it seems that Mr Spirtzis "has the fly and was mystified".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u341	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u342	Please, Minister, do not have an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u343	But these must be clarified, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u344	There will be no interactive debate. However, what is being heard and what has been done in the country for public works is to go crazy. The 300 million for Morrea, Mr. Kutsuko, you and your governments had negotiated. Today we received 105 million of the 300 million you agreed on. Secondly, there is no advance. I read from the inside, if you are willing to agree, and understand what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u345	This is the act of legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u346	I read: 'The financing procedure is defined through special accounts' - where is the advance? - "... for the highways..." - mentions also who, Lefktro - Sparta and all the others - "... ensuring the funds available from the public investment budget for 2015..." - hence the urgent case, which is the urgent issue here, since it was 24 January - "... and 2016 and ensure the rapid payment process of the projects in order to maximise the pace of implementation of the projects and to complete them by March 2017 at the latest." If we do not do this to speed up the procedures and convince the banks that finance these projects, we will have a very simple problem, after the terrible way the projects have not been completed ten years: we will turn money back from the ESRB into the European Commission. Will you tell us what you want at last? Do you want the works completed? You want to blow them? Do you want to complete them the way you've been finishing them all these years? What do you want? Tell us what you want us to understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u347	Let the minister next door say that, yeah. But you're saying it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u348	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! No advances! But it was the advances. Don't open this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u349	Lamoyo! You're a loot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u350	What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u351	Let's stop, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u352	Aren't you ashamed of a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u353	Lamoyo! You're a loot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u354	Get him out of the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u355	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u356	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u357	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u358	I'm not addressing you! When he asks me for the floor, I'll explain it to him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u359	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u360	Of course, I'm asking you for the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u361	Is that possible? Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u362	Please! Mr. Lambroulis, Z' Vice-President and special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u363	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u364	Rescind! If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, these should be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u366	This is not all written in the Minutes. Please! Please don't write.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u367	Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u368	Do you agree not to be written in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u370	He agrees. Do not write in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u371	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, I would ask it to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u373	Revocation implicitly means that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no. You're making a mistake! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Loverdo, help the conversation and the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u376	No, I don't want to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u377	That's not right. We're moving on. Mr. Lambouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I would ask that these be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin with putting us as a Communist Party of Greece to express our grief at the death of the Hellenic Navy officers who tragically left today in the context of the exercise of the Navy. We believe that all the causes for the fatal accident must be investigated immediately and, at the same time, we must express our condolences to the families of the victims. In this context: The Government is exhorting that, through legislative acts, which contain a large number of articles from the December parallel programme, it should intervene on a number of issues, seeking - as it says - to relieve the people of the barbaric measures that are being promoted. However, we cannot hide the obvious objective of disorientation, in other words the attempt to hide the anti-grassroots content of its overall policy, which is unfolding with the uniformity of counter-regulatory measures, which absolve further rights and the conquests of our people - that is to say - through the implementation of all the previous measures and memoranda and much more, the 'fire' measures which it has adopted with the third Memorandum, together with the New Democracy, PASOK, Potami and ANEL. He wants to gold the pill of barbaric policy that promotes, by trying to manipulate the people, to incorporate reactions, to present a so-called philosophical wrapping of the deeply classic policy in favour of capital, especially at this time when the plans for insurance, taxation, labour and other measures are being promoted, which break our people. Thus, even through the false logic of the humanitarian crisis, which is contained in the articles in the first act of legislation, there is an attempt to cover the class character of the crisis and its impact on workers, farmers, self-employed, the majority of our people. But there is also a new division, between absolute poverty, impoverishment and the rest of the poor. And through this logic, what does the government do? Redistribution of poverty in wider populaces, calling on the less poor to pay for the poorest. At the same time, you want to cover the fact that they will continue - and you contribute in this direction with the measures you are taking - to make people poorer, since the anti-grassroots framework of the memoranda and directions of the European Union are Gospel, both of the Government and of all other parties, which support policy within the walls of the European Union. As we said in committee, the programme will be closed in two, three months, it is an extension of the substance of the March Act that they voted for and it started to apply from June - July 2015. There is no extension of time or the type of benefits, but this previous law is actually applicable. This policy on the part of the humanitarian crisis concerns a number of minimal and limited benefits - literally - aimed at specific categories and numbers of people living in poverty, unable to meet the most basic needs even. At the same time, the proportions of relative poverty, which experiences all the workers in the folk layers, remain and grow. In other words, the conditions and causes of poverty, both absolute and relative, are reproduced as a whole. Indeed, in the explanatory statement, the Government considers these arrangements - the benefits of a poor house - to be exceptionally successful and the effects of the application of the law beneficial. Now look at the current. The amount of electricity provided to those households subject to this arrangement does not even cover ensuring the basic needs of a family. And the evidence is indiscreet. We talked about it in committee too. As far as the rental allowance is concerned, this measure, not only does it cover the number of households unable to satisfy their housing needs today, but it is still behind the corresponding provision under conditions prior to the outbreak of the capitalist crisis. And we gave an example to the committee that in 2008, in 2008, "assistant" of the rental allowance was a hundred and a thousand people. What did this law, which we are now prolonging? He talked about thirty thousand households. Same for the feeding allowance. So, what promises and what is being implemented by the government? In effect, a dish of food in families that do not have a fate in the sun. Today, not only do you not even extend these minimum benefits, but, respectively, it has voted and continues to vote for a number of anti-grassroots measures that are further impoverished by the whole of the people, which are increasing other people living below the poverty line or approaching them. At the same time, it seeks to make use of the crumbs it gives as an alibi to its own anti-popular and inhuman policy. We, as a Communist Party and then in the law in March and in other bills in the next period, tabled a number of amendments. We have tabled three amendments in due course - and we call on the government to take a position - and we call on the government to take a decision on three amendments. The first relates to the reconnections to the full coverage of the needs of the people's narrow-minded families. The second amendment concerns primary and secondary school pupils for whom a free meal should be provided at school every day at the expense of the state budget. The third amendment is the abolition of VAT and excise duty on heating oil and natural gas for domestic use. Let the government answer us. We have never received an answer, not only for them, but also for other corresponding amendments in the previous period - I repeat from March onwards. Is it polite, for example, the measure provided for in Article 7, where you give an extension of one year to the imposition of the infamous burial fee on waste? We say: In itself, the burial raisin will extinguish - already when it is implemented, after a year that you give it an extension - further the looted income by means of the people's cleanliness rewards. We say abolish it. Why are you giving him an extension? Remove it. Is it polite? Yeah. Remove it! Why are you giving him an extension? We have said so in committee, and we have not received an answer. Now see how they go through measures - to say this - which support what we say new chapter, with Article 2 of the first act of legislation: Expansion of the Greek State guarantee for ELA. In other words, support for bank capital. Banks and groups to be borrowed win. Does this article, the measure, lead to effective protection of popular deposits? The takeover plan remains, moreover, and the popular deposits remain continuously, under the aegis of a haircut. Secondly, with regard to Article 9 of the First Act of Legislation, the PPC licences, the Government is trying to present them as technical licenses, but these are authorisations which are tied up, are linked to the strategic objective of liberalisation in the energy sector. And in this direction, the government has strategically made its choice. And of course, the attempt to settle through these PPC's normalisation permits is being made in order to implement the impending privatisation of PPC. See now: Is this philosophical? Everyone has been uprooted and you are bringing it in and, if necessary, that it is also within the framework of the parallel - which is, as you say - a programme and a prologue sign. What is being done with wine in Article 19 of the first act of legislation, i.e. by tightening up wineries, etc. In the second legislative act, to amend the spatial framework for aquaculture, who favours? The little ones? You are turning the framework, rather a part of the framework, which of course relates to spatial planning, so that the big ones can come to invest in aquaculture. Furthermore, the NRP funds expressly state where, as far as aquaculture is concerned, investments of this type will go. Article 31 of the second Act of Legislation on the payments of concessions. In the case of payments of contracts. We had already voted against them from the outset, having also formulated our positions on public works - large and smaller - that they should be under the aegis of a single state body, etc. Many of these contracts, however, have been revised in the process, with the state blocking its contractual rights for the benefit of the groups and payment seals the revisions. In the case of certain articles relating to education: in Article 3 of the second legislative act. What are you doing here? In general, apprenticeships are provided in the context of the application of the Law. Other information: (a) 4186/2013 of the New Democracy. You then voted against it, now you are using it to implement what you want. Article 5, which regulates, for example, the issues of the Supervisory Board of Standards. Or now see, within Article 6, which could be voted on by some provisions or paragraphs - and we too agree - you put the paragraph, for example, for the Open University, the University, which will have a tuition fee and will be able to establish and supervise training programmes with tuition fees and other higher education institutions. As far as Article 8 of the first legislative act is concerned, we have formulated in the committee a number of problematic paragraphs, if you like, provisions of the same article. With regard to Articles 10 and 11 concerning the Ministry of Shipping, what we have put into committee is that we have not seen any arrangements that expressly refer to the crews to be called upon to carry out the work of the specific arrangements you are going to regulate with Articles 10 and 11. With regard to Article 18 of the Act of Legislation, we say that the proposed regulation removes the provision in the amended provision, according to which legal persons governed by public law and private law who have the responsibility of operating the Refugee Centres - such as Lavrio and others - will be supervised by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. And here too, it is not enough that they have also given the possibility of private refugee centres, which have made the NGOs in a state completely uncontrolled state, now making them completely uncontrollable, after the formal supervision of the relevant Ministry of Health is still removed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say a few words, Mr President. Please give me one or two more minutes. I shall now refer to the issue of 'Filkeram'. Irrespective of what the Minister said or said, and rapporteurs from the SYRIZA rapporteur, we say that the winding-up procedures of the bankrupt company should be speeded up so that the wages and compensation of the employees can finally be repaid. As far as the issue of electronic file in HICP is concerned, in addition to wanting to be presented as a technical issue of a purely technical nature, we say that it is a tool that will be used, as in similar cases, in insurance - pension and in other countries, for example in Finland, to cut benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. We also say a few things that we did not have time to report to the committee, although there was room for time. I shall now refer to Articles 32 and 33 of the second legislative act. With Article 32 of the second legislative act, what do we do? What does the government propose? Extension of the tax declaration until March for ERT. Good. What will happen, we say - and we want a response to this by the Minister responsible - with all these ERT workers whose contract was interrupted, made redundant by the closure of the ERT and who did not return to work with its reopening, not even for the time left in their contract, due to their preoccupation? Will they be paid or not? And when? We believe that the government can resolve this issue, even by means of legislation, if necessary, given that they are people who are mostly unemployed or underemployed today. Finally, Mr President, I shall refer to Rule 33 of the second legislative act. It is a multiplicity of extensions for the application of direct invoicing of advertisements, i.e. by the broadcasting media, as foreseen, to the detriment of advertisers. That's where the ad passes. So the last extension was until 2-1-2016, if I'm not mistaken. A further extension is now given. And we ask: Why is that? Let a Minister answer us on both of these issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u381	Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. In the question to the committee, your colleague told me that I probably disobeyed when I understood that he meant abolishing the burial fee and now you tell us why we are not abolishing the burial fee. You realize if it is a philosophical policy to abolish the burial fee, which means free of charge, we rest of us will bury our waste somewhere and these unfortunate people over there, who perhaps do not think they belong to the people, will be the ones who suffer for free at that cost. So not the rest of the municipalities pay. The reason we postponed the imposition of the burial fee is not that the burial fee is not fair. It is right, we have simply postponed it because we want the new ECHR to cease burial, not to legitimise burial and even for free. As far as the other issue of fish farming is concerned, I do not understand why the household is in favour of the strong and not the weak. I, on the other hand, have too many poor mydoctors who come and tell me that it is the uncontrolled mafia who has made the money, the black and the black. Households aren't anti-grassy, if I understand. If you want and have a proposition, it'll be good at my office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Agios Ioannis Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Welcome, guys. Ladies and gentlemen, you're falling apart. Somebody has to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u385	The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u386	If you don't see it, open your eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u387	To take over the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u388	That doesn't save us. I assure you. It takes a lot more. I wouldn't be interested in falling apart. It's time to go. Your time's up. We said 'the liar and the thief in the first year rejoice'. It's time you left, though. Take the country with you. The country breaks down together. You're in contributors. The Symposia are your lies before the elections that brought you here. Keratea was transferred to Kos. And you cannot be pleased with what is happening in Kos. No one should be happy with what is happening in Keratea, not fondling them. And now it's all paid. The Thessaloniki Program of course died on the "first time left" and now the lies of September on the "second time left". "I will not cut pensions," our Prime Minister said. "I have a parallel program. I'll do better than that. I will renegotiate and improve." So look at the farmer's eyes and say, 'I've improved'. Look in the eyes at the lawyer, the engineer, the doctor, the pharmacist and say to him: "I negotiated and I improved them. Things are better." Look in the eye at the employee and the general taxpayer and tell him: '50% plus 8% of the first euro, i.e. over 60% of the total'. 8% is from the first euro, not 50% from one point on. Over 60% of the total is improvement. I did it!" Mr. Tsakalotos told us in committee about this bill, that we can't only bring insurance, because insurance and taxation are connected and you can win from one another and lose from the other. But here you lose both. What does it mean I win from one another and lose from the other when I lose both of them? Even say what that will be and nothing else, that you will not negotiate with the troika - which you would ask to come or 'quadrika', as Mr Katrugalos says - and when he comes he will pass what you have told the Greek people so far. You can't say that either. They will come worse than what you now say as designs and theoretically you negotiate with society. Finally, say that even these, the worst, not this plan you say, the worst you will ever negotiate and bring, it will be the last thing you will do and nothing else will come. There'll be an insurance policy, and we won't have insurance at all for ten, for twenty years. Say that. Promise me. Can you? Get up here in this step and promise. You can't. In the refugee sector we have the worst consequences. Delays, inability to manage them, and the result is souls staying here and not having the elementary and Greek citizens of course afflicted with the problem. From where we were going to close the Almondsa or close it, we create forty Almonds in her place. The decisions are taken in the absence of Greece, between Germany and Turkey. New incentives are being created for Turkey to continue this flow in order not to change the status quo in the Aegean and we are not told by the Minister of National Defence what this example means to SAR, for the Research and Rescue Zone in the Aegean Sea. How does it affect her? Does it make her worse? In order not to lose national sovereignty, we must invite them here to help us. We must say that we need help and that we cannot bring about a refugee, which we have all underestimated. It is a very big problem, and refugees are starting and they are a minority now. The majority of people will be immigrants and we will not be able to do anything about it. And when the Dublin Treaty comes to rework in a few weeks or a few months' time, then we will also have people turning from the northern countries to our country. With the revenue in January going worse than targets, which will lead to public suffocation. Since March you will start not paying the suppliers again. Now you pay them 'equal boats' a little over, just down. Now this suffocation will begin, and if we have not given a solution by May - the Minister of Finance has shouted out a scream - then we have 'burned', as he said here in committee. With the Stock Exchange falling apart, investors lose over 70% of the money they put in just a few weeks ago. The country loses all potential for growth. They don't want to come to our country anymore for a vacation. With the Attica Bank scandal you had to invest money from the funds. You forced the investor, Mr. Paulson, who has a minority package in the EMSDDA, to send a letter to Mr. Tsipras and a letter to Mrs. Nouy to SSM, to check the case of the Bank of Attica and why the EMS was forced to lose its money, he put 20 million and now valued to 6 million, TSMEDE lost over 200 million, TAPILTAT, EYDAP, "Eleftherios Venizelos" and who do you know how many other bodies. You are opening up, ladies and gentlemen, your own issue of elections out of nowhere. We are told by the Minister of Defense, Mr. Kammenos, that you are freezing the entire market, that all Greece has frozen and is looking at lights like a rabbit and that the Prime Minister is forced to deny it from Iran. But denial is not enough. The difficulties are obvious. You're in condolences, I said it again. You cannot go left either, unfortunately, nor forward. The market is sexy. For the last 15 days everyone has said the market has collapsed, the economy has collapsed. They all say so. Talk to me business, talk to anyone who knows. Talk to the people. People have been allowed too. Do you realize we're at a turning point right now? In the Hemingway novel, "The Sun rises again", Bill asks someone who went bankrupt, Mike: "How did you go bankrupt?" Answers: “In two ways. Gradually and then suddenly." We gradually passed it. We're all of a sudden. Watch out for it too. The country won't last. What are we seeing here today? We have two legislative acts, a total of fifty nine articles to be ratified, signed on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. The services worked, they got tired, for the sake of the Greek people. You have 30 articles from the fifty nine, concerning extensions, changes in deadlines. I mean, nothing. It is a complete confession of the impotence of the government to manage the time. Is it a matter of being Oriental and having time problems? Why can't we finally keep a deadline for this public administration? What's this about? Let me list a few articles for the Greek people to understand. I said a lot to the committee, and I should now say it before the Greek people: With Article 4, bring emergency travel expenses abroad. These are extraordinary trips that will be covered from 2016 funds retrospectively. No programming. We can't even schedule travels. With Article 5, you extend the duration of the HRF and the Roma Centres until June, because the new NRF cannot run quickly. He has to be prolonged. In Article 7, you are suspending the special burial charge, because a comprehensive waste management strategy cannot be organised, but also, of course, because the municipality's finances are uncontrollable. And, of course, this suspension means an extension of fines by the European Union. In Articles 8, 10, 11 and 18, we have provisions for dealing with the refugee. They're unconnected, firearms, and not even the least, to be the provisions together, continuous articles. In Article 9, the temporary single authorisation is extended to PPC's units until 31-12-2017. When was this for the first time granted? In 2001, gentlemen! We have a sixteen-year extension because the supporting documents have not yet been gathered. What are those excuses? PPC's been in public trouble and can't collect supporting documents for sixteen years? What will the ordinary citizen do? Will you bring extensions for them, too, or just for PPC? Also, an extension of staff in the Social Welfare Centres, for no reason, simply a general call for the uninterrupted operation of the Centres. Prolongation for specific monitoring reports because legislation cannot be adapted. Extension of the ranking table of the parties to the trial posts of the Judicial Council of the State. What's that? Settlement? What's that thing? In the second act of legislation, the new year's work, with Article 1, you change your own law, Mr. 4337 to make him apply retroactively. Was that not predicted when you brought him? In Article 2, we have extended the limitation of debts of the NWO and TA from the State. In Article 4 we have an extension of the deadline for the completion of internal regulations of research bodies due to a failure to respond to the deadline. In the meantime, you have called this a parallel program. Is that what you meant before the elections when you told the Greek people about a parallel project? Prolongations? We have extensions of membership of scientific supervisory boards, experimental and school models. In Article 14, extensions of contracts for workers to organisations that are repealed, but are temporarily maintained for the smooth functioning of the programmes of the current programming period. I'm abolishing the agency, but I'm temporarily holding it, and I'm prolonging the contracts of workers by law! It's the absolute irrationality. Articles 6, 8, 9, 12, 16, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 32 and 34 are all for extensions or are articles of a former parallel programme. I think that only this list shows how incompetent the administration is at the moment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I talked this morning about FILKERAM, which allows eight workers to trample this property, which must be divested, to pay, among other things, the two hundred and twenty-five employees - they are owed money - so that the business can be cleared up, to get an investor to the property, to put it into operation, to put machinery, to bring life to the place, to the area and to get growth to a conclusion, to find people to work. And instead, we have eight employees from the forty - the others have resigned - who have five mixers and put on some liquids and do not pay either PPC or anything and are protected by high-ranking managers or whatever it is - I denounce it - PPC, because whenever the subcontractor comes to cut them off, they take a phone to PPC and stop the subcontractor. And so they can and continue to work, stealing. Of course, self-management is also correct. It's a model that could be used. It is, however, a model that could be used when it brings profits and when it can work, not by stealing, not by trespassing the property of others. Finally, you understand that the law's power is more important than the specific political pursuits at all times. For when the law does not apply, it is always paid, but always the weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u391	Do you want Mr. Saridis or before? 'Cause now he's here. If you ask for the floor, you have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u392	Then, Mr. President. To speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u393	Here you go, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, four months is the Central Association of the Parliament. Four months is the confrontation of SYRIZA - ANEL in its new term and eleven months in total with a number of bills under the urgency procedure, with a number of amendments to the bills and suddenly within the holidays we had two legislative acts. The government promises by election to the parallel programme. He brings it on the eve of celebrations to satisfy the inner-party frictions, takes it back and we all know in here how he got it back and suddenly collects thirty articles from the parallel program, puts thirty other articles that were apart from the parallel program, takes the approval and creates the two legislative acts. By exercising powers which the Constitution allows in extremely urgent cases, the Greek Government on 24 December and 30 December replaced Parliament and without public consultation, without the possibility of being heard, beyond the Ministers, legislated. We cannot change a single party today from this bill. Is that the correct application of the culture? We have a loss of democracy, we have poverty in arguments, we have poverty in words. It's gone temper, there's no sense in it. You've taken people out on the streets. You've taken them out of their clothes. They can't sleep at night. You've ruined psychology, you've ruined morality. The wages of those with work are not enough to make their month. In this political context, in this reality, the Central Association, with the President of Vassili Leventis, chose the responsible attitude and far from populism, called on farmers to return to their homes. In view of the national interest, the Union of Centres calls for restraint from all sides and draws attention to those who offer public reasons not to be pushed into violence and for those who are indifferent to the maintenance of social cohesion. You have managed with the political anomaly you have brought, with your immature and inefficient governance to dismantle all the social and collective pursuits for a better tomorrow. The revelation of your lie, the demolition of your myth, the degradation of the narrative of the "first time left" succeeded in such a disappointment to the Greeks, who ceased to be interested and began to be angry. This is the first step to dismantle society, to hit the family as the foundation of our culture. Because that's what happens, that's what we're living, that's culminating at all levels these days: the total attack on the Greek family. Do you know what inconvenience is causing the families what you're doing, what you voted on? The people on the streets don't have families? The people on the streets don't have children? Do you think the lives of all these families aren't affected when they decide to go out on the streets? It is unforeseen and uncalculable the results in the psychology of the citizens from what you are bringing us here to Parliament to ratify with our vote. Like the half of these ill-written and clipboards you have brought us here today, they have not been checked for the burden they will bear on the state budget, so the whole of the laws of the "first-time left" has not been checked for the burden they bear on the institution of the Greek family. I had the opportunity to hear the German State Secretary for Foreign Affairs two months ago when he was in Greece. He told his audience that they were looking to Germany to figure out what it was that managed to maintain social cohesion in Greece, when such barbaric fiscal measures were applied on it. They found out that something was the foundation of the Greek family. You strike this institution unrelentingly, gentlemen of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the impossibility of the government to manage the country's needs in a responsible and effective way serves opacity, nourishes transgression, favours corruption, increases the nerve of those who plunder the public and plunder the citizens, taking advantage of the state void, the political non-existence, the criminal failure of the SYRIZA - ANLE Government. Greece dies in hospitals, drowns in the Aegean Sea, dies in the streets. You did well and you take responsibility for CEDEFOP. But do you think the wording you have chosen is sufficient? Have you solved the problems? The action will show. With semimeters the problems are usually not solved. Problematic or in the right direction, your care for the functioning of the PHY and unclear about your interest in Roma and vulnerable groups. They are full of extensions, postponements and suspensions. With postponements, suspensions and extensions, the country's problems are not solved. There have been practices you have condemned so far. And now? Suspension for special waste burial charge? When I made the observation that the need, my Minister, for liquidity, led to the authorisation of the OTA funds and, therefore, the provision of the legislative instrument to suspend the obligation to pay the burial fee may be necessary, but it lacks resources from the famous Green Fund, you chose to fight us. Because that's what you did to us, you fought us by telling us that the Green Fund money is committed by our lenders. But let me ask the following question: How has the Green Fund been found in the hands of lenders? Is it a solution not to pay a burial fee in general? One year later there is not even one ecological initiative, in our view, which has not been disappointed by the alleged ecological sensitivity of the government. Have you exploited your environmental sensitivity to expelling the Greek Gold? Was that all the environmental sensitivity? The government on the issues of ecology and environmental protection, in our view, has no rank. I want to make a comment on the way the Ministry of Health chooses to legislate. Yesterday the debate on the draft law on what remains of the parallel programme began. Indeed, as many colleagues have noted, the provisions concerning the health of the Ministry of Health have been unsuccessfully shared between legislative acts, unrelated to health bills, and thus the specific legislation on health alone is empty. The extensions to the procurement procedures, which we will check with our questions, have not been costed. How much will the hospital budget be imposed due to government delays? Until when will you call us in this Chamber to give extensions, deferrals and suspensions, so dealing with your obvious inadequacy? Health issues don't solve that. And we may understand the needs that have led here and the conditions that have created this distorting situation, but we cannot justify your spasm movements. And that's exactly what we're afraid of. And with your decision to open the doors of the health system to refugees and immigrants - who will say no to caring for people? Who? Nobody. Attention, because if you show the well-known handshake on this issue, then it is at risk of fuelling xenophobia and strengthening the rhetoric against immigrants. He wants a lot of attention, gentlemen of the government. Where is the extraordinary and unforeseen extension of FILKERAM? Where? The rights of eight people to the detriment of the Constitution and the public interest? I repeat: where does the SYRIZA rapporteur identify the urgent matter? If it's all right and well burned up, tell us where the General Accounting Reports of the State are? It is not enough that you legislate arbitraryly, but you are now legislating no matter what the cost. Didn't you learn, gentlemen of the government, from the pull of your ears on Christmas, forcing you to withdraw the bill while your MPs were arguing for it by presenting it as SYRIZA's answer, the SYRIZA solution? You got it back after a call from Vienna. And don't tell us it was your opposition. You can't make fun of anyone anymore. Is it possible that a call from abroad will suffice to get a bill back and yet it will not suffice to say that Greece is in the middle and you cannot withdraw the insurance? Let me turn to an issue that really makes me impression. You're getting rid of the HICP from HICPIA. I have two things to say on this. If the previous government had done this - without me being part of the previous government - you'd be on the channels, you'd go up to the tractors and talk about a coup. That's the truth! You're inconsistent, gentlemen of the government. Your words are far from your actions. And a second comment on this: for the smile of your child, we beg for four months! For the SOS Villages, please, four months! For the SOS Villages on your Fillar we beg for four months! Is there two standards available? And don't tell me that one of them is public and the other is private. Oh, no. They serve and meet public needs, needs that the government cannot meet. They should have the same pay and benefits. Where's your social sensitivity? Why pay for the Smiling of the Child and all the rest of an HISPIA when it covers the government's vacuum? At the moment we are talking, National Defence Ministers at the NATO conference are actually deciding on joint patrols in the Aegean Sea. Your usual trick, changing name on things, in case you manage to hide the nakedness of your political argument, will not win you any more time. The Greek people have been close to the inability of the system to solve the problems of the people. The political leadership, seeking to find ways to justify unjustified, has chosen the name, the change of definitions and terms in the hope that the world will not understand what is happening. The people have taken care to maintain their collective memory, the answer that must be given to those who choose this misleading tactic, this mockery. You're not fooling anyone. Common patrols are on their way. Border closure comes within this day or tomorrow. The collapse of the political system, social security, is visible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need a minute, please, with your tolerance. Greece dies every day in the streets and you just change names to what you don't like. The provisions, the articles on the exercise of the policy of asylum, are indeed a mirror of the dubiousness with which this government faces the national and absolutely crucial issues for the maintenance of social cohesion. We agree on the principle. It is impossible, however, to offer you the relevant support, as the procedures you have chosen obliges us to vote for fifty-seven different regulations and provisions in only two articles. This alone proves to be a false copy of your interest in political consensus. If you wanted a consensus, you wouldn't legislate that way. If you wanted a consensus, you would not have been torpedoing the only field of political agreement that you found ready for the previous parliamentary term and would not have removed the debate on the National Broadcasting Council - we will see you this afternoon on this - from the Conference of Presidents to bring it to the House. You don't want a consensus, gentlemen. You're trying to convince yourself rather that what you're doing is in the name of social justice and democratic ideal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Where's democracy today? We are talking about something, which we cannot do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Saridis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u396	In a minute, Mr. President. We have no right to change a ton, not a party to what you have brought us. Therefore, any debate is being held on a case by case and by way of derogation from the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on a day of grief for the loss of three members of the Armed Forces, the Turkish side, while it should respect this mourning, swings our fingers and challenges our right to research and rescue in Greek territorial waters. That's where you drove the country, gentlemen. You've led her to be nonexistent. You've made her that far. We as a Centro Association will vote 'at present' in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u397	Seventeen speakers have said and seven or eight ministers to speak. As a result, it must become a time economy in order to be able to speak as many as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u398	Not by the MPs, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Friend as Minister is entitled to eight minutes and offered to speak five minutes. Thank you. On the same basis, we will limit the speakers' time to five minutes. Mr. Friend gives an example. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. In summary, in this draft law, i.e. the ratification of the act of legislative content, Article 3 sets out the pilot apprenticeship programme, which is a Memorandum of Understanding which will enter into force this year. There had to be a notice on 31 December 2015. In Article 5, there is the necessary regulation because the term of office for the Scientific Committee for the Monitoring of Experimental and Standard Schools expired. In Article 6, there is an arrangement for the PSC. And this regulation was of an urgent nature, as was the case in February at universities, as well as the rules for athletes, to increase to 4.5% the number of admissionee athletes - on the basis of the issue that has arisen because of the abolition of a provision, there is a question of equality and care - in order to clarify this issue without any doubt. Let's go a little bit to the general now that's more important. We have heard, more typically the speech by the representatives of the river, a rhetorical demolition of the government. I would like to remind you that this government has only four months' term of office. This government came from the choice of the previous parliamentary majority of the SYRIZA in Parliament to vote. Why should elections be held? Because the conditions with which we took the people's vote in January 2015 have changed and we wanted there to be confirmation, rejection or rewarding of the programme that we propose to the Greek people. And this policy was rewarded in September. We are not a government of Samaras, which took the government to another vote, and another programme has implemented, we are not even a government of Papandreou, which did the same. Therefore, unreliability is returning. There has been a clear political choice with democratic rules. We were elected not by cheating on anyone, but by the program that the Greek people knew and made a choice. Option to vote again Left. Secondly, we haven't been out for four months. And those who began to smuggle power with the complex together get it well. We have been out for four years and our programme will be judged every day, but it will also be judged by the Greek people at the end of the four-year period. It will be a programme which, after passing the first assessment cave, will have a development direction so that next year our country has come out of the dark of the crisis, from the darkness of austerity. It will be a programme that seeks social and political alliances within Greece and outside Greece, because in Europe, as you know, with the example of Greece, we find imitators in southern Europe and Portugal and Spain. Even Renci's differences, even Olad's ambiguities, show a Europe which is concerned. There is not the undisturbed neoliberal hegemony of the cemeteries of capital in Europe, of policies implementing capital in Europe. Thirdly, we are a government which at this stage - and we will see this in the afternoon - in a democratic way that is inconsistent, we stress it, without bailouts, we will try to impose legitimacy and conflict with the truce. I have heard the new interpretation - the theory that there is no complexity in Greece. I don't want to go back to the old days. Mr. Theocharis, a river representative, mentioned a name here. Do you know what that was? The name of the great shareholder Radier Paulson, because he is, he says, a shareholder in EYADAP and does not take, as he would like to take, a similar dividend to the Greek State that is the main shareholder there. You said a complication? A new complication? The memorial period? Repeat: A name of businessman was said in here and he's out. And Mr Theocharis obviously said so, because they are complaining, he says, and in the troika in favour of Mr Paulson. I mean, the complication has a broader character.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u401	In HRF, especially, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u402	The Greek public and Mr. Paulson. Of course, I heard. The Greek public and Mr. Paulson. Of course, and you are in favour of Mr Paulson, the Greek State's money should be less, sharing dividends. That's what you're saying. Yes, well, congratulations! I'll see you this afternoon. Secondly, with flexibility and social sensitivity and able to discuss with the citizens and social strata affected by the social crisis, we are ready to move the dialogue on insurance, taxation and other major issues in view of the first assessment. And those who refuse this dialogue are unfortunately denying it against the real interests of the social groups that they are supposed to represent. If they represent these social interests in a genuine way and not the interests of the few, the great and the privileged of the various categories of the past, they have no reason to deny dialogue. I repeat: here is the dialogue - the Prime Minister said yesterday - with the possibility of various arrangements being made. Thirdly, with confidence and an exit plan from the crisis, we continue to conclude the first negotiation. I repeat: With confidence, which means that we measure our words and our actions and seek alliances within and outside Greece in a policy to overcome the crisis and austerity, both in our country and in Europe. Fourth, with democratic consciousness, with democratic sensitivity and humanism - others interacted with the Phomones, where they drowned the immigrants in the waters of the Aegean Sea, others drowned refugees in the Aegean Sea, not us -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u403	Who drowned them, Minister? Say, if you have the courage, who drowned them. Fifty people are now drowned, and this is no longer news.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u404	You know who. Your government. It was politically responsible that your government, unscrupulous and inhumane, played a game with the Top Right in Greece. Your government, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u405	When fifty people are drowned today and this is no longer news, it is debatable. You did that. That's how you protect them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u406	Please, Mr. Philly, go ahead and finish. Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u407	With democratic sensitivity and humanism, then, we are dealing with the refugee issue, which is not a purely Greek problem and not a Greek problem. And I am very impressed that instead of offering your contribution, your cooperation to address this major problem that is European and global, you are coming here and setting up a small-party fight on the subject of refugees. Can I say something else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u408	Seven minutes, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u409	Who closes the border in Bulgaria today? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u410	We, the previous government!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u411	Tell me: Who do they actually apply a special Grexit, a peculiar application of Greece's exit from Schengen? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u412	We are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u413	You! Your captains, who close the streets and clash with the Bulgarian drivers. You're closing it down the border. It is your worst offer today to the Greek problem. You give Shoeble and the others arguments to raise the Grexit issue. You're closing the border! You taboon them underneath, supposedly with social demands! Answer me. Are your own executives or not where they prevent crossing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u414	Give us the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u415	Who prevents crossing the borders of Greece - Bulgaria in the name of allegedly agricultural claims?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u416	Our Chief says not to close the tractors on the streets. Your Chief was on the tractors and pretended to be Che Guevara! That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u417	You, subordinates of the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn! This is your offer. With Shoeble hand - hand! That's your offer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u418	Please, Mr. Philly, finish and don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u419	To conclude, then, Grexit's enthusiasts in practice, Paulson's lawyers in this Chamber, I ask: is that your European spirit? Is that what you propose as a perspective for Greece? The full subjection of small and large interests within and beyond? The Greek people know these things and despite the difficulties they are confessed to and passion for solving the problems, they will not give way to a claim which we must take into account: clearance! We're done! Democratisation, the development of the country in favour of the many and not of the great private interests! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, too. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u422	Here, you got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u423	Mr. Pappa, I apologize for taking the floor. I'll be done in a minute. Mr President, I would like an assessment from you, from the Bureau. There is indeed a suffocation of time because at 6 p.m. we have a meeting with another subject and, as you remember, the President of the House said the day before yesterday to the Conference of Presidents that if we do not have time until 6 p.m. then we may go to another sitting. We have heard this as positive and all the political forces have said that we will discuss it, seeing both the time economy and the course of the meeting. So to you, in the Bureau, it is up to you to see and tell us at some point how and what happens. The remark we made at the Conference - and Mr Balaourras and I and Mr Kaklamanis - had to do with the experience we gained on Monday, where we had a seven-hour meeting in the Standing Committee, because there were two legislative acts with each and every one of them, and so there was appalling pressure for every rapporteur. Today we have one or two amendments. I think one has withdrawn, so we only have one amendment. That obliges you to tell us how the debate will take place, because there are too many ministers who have to take matters and they must also take the floor, they are the rapporteurs, the Members who have asked for the floor, but also the parliamentary representatives. I heard a really explosive speech from the Minister of Education, which was also related to immigration, and I was born in the political desire to speak. I have that right. You have not allowed the six Members to speak first, as we usually do, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. How are you going to get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u424	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u425	What do you mean, you'll see? Talk to the Minister. I have the right as a parliamentary representative to speak after the Minister. But I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u426	And Mr Papapas is a parliamentary representative and he asked for the floor before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u427	I know. Mr. Pappas will speak. I have no objections. I just ask, will the Parliamentary Representatives follow now? The MPs won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u428	The turn is: the completion of the speeches of the Parliamentary Representatives, the rapporteurs, the Members of Parliament and the Ministers intervening in the intervening period, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u429	So now the parliamentary representatives are talking and we are bypassing Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Pappas had asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u431	Ladies and gentlemen, that is not our responsibility. We didn't ask for that. I ask you to speak immediately afterwards. But that is not right, Mr President. You are confronting us with the MPs, which we do not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u432	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u433	The Members of Parliament are ahead of us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u434	Just a moment, please. The turn, according to the Rules of Procedure, is to talk to the MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u435	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u436	...with the parliamentary representatives and the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u437	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u438	We can't interrupt the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u439	The Members of Parliament are ahead of us, Mr President. The first six MPs are in front of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u440	Mrs Papakostas, if the special speakers don't talk, you can understand that. I can't do what you're saying. The special speakers will speak, then the parliamentary representatives will...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u441	No, Mr. President. The first six MPs speak, and then the turn begins...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u442	Please. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, may I congratulate you on your temper. You showed a great sense of responsibility with your office, because you kept your temper during the dispute, the theatre, I'd say, between Mr. Friend and Mr. Stamatis. Mr President, you did not say to Mr Stamatis 'Get out and relax', as your colleague said - in office I mean - Vice-President of the House, President of the House, in the morning, to our Member, Ilias Kasidiaris. Since the President of Parliament is also in the seats of Members, I would like to say that this should be the subject of the Conference of Presidents, namely the control of behaviour and how the Vice-Presidents run the debate. Are we going to have Members thinking about saying 'we have this - let me say it in introductory terms - 'insane' in the Bureau, let me not speak now'? Because we see your fellow Members being explosives, being out of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, express themselves in her own, with unauthorized expressions. Otherwise it's your sharp speech of the Golden Dawn! Mr President, you will have to record it next Tuesday at the Conference of Presidents. If you don't put it, I will. I'm coming to the object. I want to inform the House and through the telepsy the Greek people of the statement by Nikolaos Michaloliakos, Secretary General and Chief of Golden Dawn, of the tragic incident with the fall of the helicopter of our Navy. "February 11: Golden Dawn expresses its warmest condolences to the families of the heroic officers of our Hellenic Navy, who fell on duty to defend our country's sovereign rights. The political leadership of the place has a great responsibility for this tragic incident, after having made sure that the Armed Forces were dismantled for years and that those who put their own life in the service of the nation are taken care of. Nikolaos Georgios Michaloliakos, Secretary General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn." We have seen how you are basically swaying, you of the constitutional arch, the heroes, the fallen of our national races, the people we should have as a model. On the contrary, you come and forbid honor. You forbid the National Memorial Committee to testify a crown in the monument for Imian heroes in front of the Armed Forces Club. We said this morning and we will have to say again from the Step so that we can finally hear some names of ordinary Greek fighters, fighters of the grand, who play their lives crown letters, with useless war material that you, the governments of the Memorandum, provide them with and have the army without spare parts and without morals, if you like. What kind of moral being married to two and three kids taking a grand, playing the life of the crown letters? On the contrary, with faith in the country, these officers, soldiers and officers exaggerate themselves and offer their lives to their homeland. These are the lieutenant and governor of the helicopter Tulitsis Anastasios, the lieutenant and co-pilot of the helicopter Panana Constantine and the unsupplier and engineer of the helicopter Evangelos Eleftherios. Mr President, what was ahead of the helicopter drop? Four Turkish NOTAMs had precedented, with which three Greeks had renounced commitments of areas for the exercises of the Greek Armed Forces. And according to information, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence has now ceased to issue NOTAMs in recent years, since December, to counter the Turkish NOTAMs, having issued only one NOTAM, which is an answer for everyone and for all. That's what Mr. Kammenos does. That's what the Minister of Foreign Affairs does. What did these NOTAMs say? NOTAM 265/2016 illegally covered and, I would say, bound huge areas of the Aegean Sea. NOTAM 269 contained sectors of the Greek-Turkish border which, in the opinion of Turkey, were unclear and have not been clearly defined. This area is east of Megistis. The areas that are also bound to NOTAM 270-2016 listen to what they include. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr President, I am not speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u444	I beg your pardon, but there is a mini-session, to see whether or not there will be an extension of the sitting. Please continue, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u445	So the areas are Ai Stratis, Psara, Chios, Tilos, Halki, Ikaria, Lemnos, Mytilini, Samos. You have taken care of the right-wing governments, absent from this Chamber - it is only Mrs Papacosta who is present, the only courageous here - like the Left - that we have these doubts in our Aegean. The Greek Aegean! As we talked about Greek Cyprus, about Cyprus - and remember the wonderful stickers - "I don't forget" with blood in half Cyprus, we will come to have flags and say about the Aegean Sea "I don't forget". No, that's not supposed to happen! So, what happened today in the middle of the night at 2:45? In the island of Chinaros it impacted the fateful helicopter of the Navy. There were announcements and assessments, but no one told us that these Italian helicopters AGUSTA BELL had been purchased by Greece from Italy and it was a guy who was based and based on American similar helicopters, on which the Greek Army flys, and it is also a type of helicopters that the War Navy fryers have. Do you know what's going on with the fresheners and what Mr. Kammenos has taken care of? But this was done before, at Samaras, and by the various defence ministers he had, Abrahamopoulos and others. We have a french which we call 'the french for the cannibals'. They canvass her. We have a good fry that doesn't wash in the Aegean Sea to have it for spare parts. That's where you made our Navy! To continue, these helicopters are over thirty-five years old. They throw away our children, they throw away our brothers, the officers and the officers throw away with moving necropses in the Aegean Sea. What else did we have before the helicopter crash before the NOTAM I'm saying? We have had the famous statement by Mr Kammenos, who basically accepted the joint patrols in the Aegean. It was discussed in Brussels with the Greek delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Panos Kammenos, the NATO proposal to contribute to the joint patrols, pretext of the so-called refugee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We had stressed at the first moment that this proposal really constitutes an assignment of national sovereignty and we wonder how the Left, how Musalas, who would once by hand call "American, people's killers", would call "NATO's proposal positive, examine it." Is that possible? It's sweet, the smell and the appearance of the money. Bring illegal immigrants as a pretext for the partition of the Aegean. This plan will not pass, as none of you will pass for the so-called hot spots. They don't want the hot spots, gentlemen. Listen to the Greek people's opinion, they don't want hot spots. And if they finally do, because you're committed with very narrow dates, by 15 February, you're going to set up a cigarette, you're going to set up a tal, chemical toilet and I don't know what else you're going to do. You'll make these hotspots using even... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you stop the bell, Mr. President? I'm done. In fact, you are using Greek soldiers, our children, to literally do the "Philippines" of illegal immigrants. If these hotspots are finally made, as Mr Kammenos, Prime Minister Tsipras and Mr Mousalas have promised, remember, ladies and gentlemen, today's Parliament's meeting, remember that these ghettos, that is, the hot spots, will become insurrection bats, will become the spark of a special civil war. Also, the creation of hotspots, i.e. the legitimisation of the Islamics in Greece, will be the occasion and an issue on the basis of which, if we had already said that Simitis is the high priest of the interlocutory, we will say in the course that Kammenos and Tsipras are the high priests of the smuggling of our national rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, we are waiting for farmers tomorrow. And I stress: the Greek farmers. Farmers are not Chrysayites, New Democrats, Pasoktzies, Kouquetes. And badly a Mr. Buttas, the eternal magnificious of the Thessaloniki camp, who represents the left and the communist - the big-fashioned really! - puts in his mouth the Golden Dawn and wants to familiarize the fair fight of Greek farmers. So farmers, whatever you do tomorrow, gentlemen of the government, will win. As much as you put your teammates, the mercenaries of power, put them together, the farmers don't get hampered. They don't get hamburger - say it like that - by chemical or by clubs or by nothing. They'll pull forward and win. And no one will hamper their fight. We support them wholeheartedly and wait for them either by tractor or by tractor on Syntagma Square. Welcome, beside them, with them in their race! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u448	Before I give Mr Stathakis the floor for a minute, would you like to speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u449	I'll just talk for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u450	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u451	I am not going to talk about illegal immigrants, and so on, it is a political point of view. Of course, we have said that in the House some things are mentioned anyway, but I would ask that this 'Philippines' should be deleted from the Minutes because it is a country with which our country has relations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u452	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u453	...and beyond the women's or any dimension, it's unacceptable as phrases. I would ask you to request that it be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u454	Mr President, the capitalists and the pluralists of the northern Philippines have, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u455	You're welcome. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u456	And there are Greek women who really need them and they don't get them. And many ministers may also have such at home.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u457	The delinquency to stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u458	The Greeks were in the restaurants of America for decades and washed dishes. Would you like the U.S. Senate to say about the Greeks as you said about the Philippines? It's not standing! Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u459	Greece, Mr President, is a state of indebtedness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u460	How disgraceful now, and so on.Huh? Are we going to have this conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u461	Greece and the United States!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u462	It's a matter of international relations, Mr. Pappa, it's not a matter of ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u463	We're gonna mess up with the Philippines!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u464	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u465	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u466	You have the floor for a minute, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u467	Thank you. It is difficult to speak after the racist delirium. What I shall say is the amendment that I tabled and which relates to two extensions: One concerns what was negotiated with the institutions, and the extension of the non-liberalisation of housing loans, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumer loans. That was the end date of February 15th. The amendment proposes that it should be extended until 15 March. I would remind you that this is the subject of negotiation with the institutions in ongoing negotiations on the first evaluation. The second amendment also deals with an extension and refers to an update of the information obtained by a borrower in Katselis Law, which should provide the court with updated data on his case by three banks. It is also a request from borrowers and a request from most banks to extend the application volume. The extension of the amendment is for 30 April. I propose with legislative improvement, because it coincides with the period of Easter, that the words '30 April' be replaced by '4 May'. I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School Artas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u469	Will the speakers follow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u470	Three Members will speak, then Mr Loverdos in the capacity of the parliamentary representative and then Mr Baltas. Here you go, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u471	The act of legislation not, of course, under conditions of war or of exceptional circumstances but in any case under particular circumstances of overcompensation of the country and explosive social problems and other issues requiring urgent treatment, together with the draft law on speeding up the government's work which we started to discuss yesterday in the House, is a single set that demonises opposition, especially the New Democracy and some, unfortunately, colleagues and other parties, demonstrates that parallel to the country's Memorandum of Understanding - production, administrative, development - exists. It's not fantastic, it's not a parallel universe, a distraction, as they claim. They are evidence of the class preferences of this government in favour of the weak, especially in matters relating to the upgrading of the public health system, the possibility of accelerating the crises, so that we can have much more human potential in public hospitals, with incentives for the ancestors, inappropriate, especially for the islands, with a special role and initiatives for the EEAS, with the possibility of dealing with all the issues relating to free access of uninsured people to the public health system, and the financing of this possibility by the EEAS. All this is therefore a great step forward in the interventions that take into account the tragic consequences of Greece's overcompensation and debt management choices by the Papandreou, Papademos, Samara - Venizelos governments. I wanted a special intervention, following yesterday's position with the head of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara, in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament, with the conclusions of the Bank of Greece, on the progress of the Greek economy, the first assessment and, of course, on tackling the prospects for the Greek economy. There has been a major issue which I think concerns all political forces: what has happened to the criminal recession, the 25% reduction in the country's gross national product, the explosion of unemployment and inequalities, social impoverishment? The method of applying the Memorandum Agreements or their architecture, their ideology, their neoliberal orientation? Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of German Finance Minister Symble, who spoke with the words 'is the application, idiots!' - and the 'familiar' is, unfortunately, directed at all those who have been involved since 2010 and then to governmental responsibilities - it must be answered by all the political forces. Aren't your recipes,'mistakes', your monetaristic obsessions that plunged the Greek economy, which dissolved the country's productive tissue, pushing into a permanent weakness of sustainable debt service and recovery? Aren't your choices for tax incentives, for increasing VAT on islands, wine, beer, for new pension cuts and for all that mobilize society? However, these obsessions do not lead to a recovery of the Greek economy. They're struggling her course. This answer must be given. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I believe that the issues which concern the country's overall reconstruction and the way they are dealt with in the parallel programme submitted by the government are the issues that concern our alliances' policy. We are neither concerned by the universal'soups' nor by the governments that are directed at technocrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u472	Finish, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u473	The issues relating to our political alliances are the process of reconstruction in this country, which has every chance of rebuilding itself with the parallel programme and the initiatives taken by this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, too. Mrs Papakostas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, before I enter the essence of the ratification of the two acts of legislation, let me, as a member of the Greek Parliament, and as a member of the Armed Forces' family, express my collapse and grief for the day, on the occasion of the fall of the helicopter and the loss of crew of the Hellenic Navy. It is a damper day for the country and it is a day that really causes crushing and grief, I think, on all the wings of this House. Mr President, I would ask you not to press Members on the matter of time. Do not force parliamentarians to shorten their positions, when serious issues - and even in violation of the Rules of Procedure - are being discussed in the Chamber and in need of answers, they need to work out legislative procedures and they need a policy analysis in order to provide the correct way of legislating. I must stress here and stress, in my experience and participation in the government, that the act of legislative content is laid down in a constitutional way, according to the law of necessity, but its abuse is nothing but the impossibility of the government, which has the legislative initiative to legislate properly and to legislate in such a way as to demonstrate that it does not abuse this constitutional right to the law of need. I shall end with this in relation to legislative acts. You see us, gentlemen of the co-government and the government majority, we are responsible and do not plunder on these issues. I remember myself, as Secretary of State for Health in this position, with a strong opposition at that time to the government majority today, and to the loss - let me say - how to legislate our government at that time, in just as difficult, perhaps even more difficult and suffocating conditions, towards us, which were then the members of the government, the Ministerial Council and, of course, the colleagues of the government majority at that time. My grandmother Katerina said - and the people's crisis is wise and correct - 'big bite, big talk don't say!' You are now collecting the hands of your deeds and words and works. I would also like to congratulate the President-in-Office here, Mr President - and he should have recalled the Bureau in order - the shameful delusional type, even a disgraceful omission, of the Minister of Education, who has the custom when he comes to Parliament, to trigger explosions, to turn in a biased and polaristic manner against the Civilian Opposition and other parties of counter-population, considering that it is his duty to do so. I believe that the shame of the delusional and shameful behaviour of the Minister of Education, who must give the tone of dignity, does not honor the government. However, it characterizes it as not found by any of the ministerial headquarters to take the floor and say "I apologise to the MPs of Officerial Response in particular, for the manner in which the Minister of Education has acted." This to be recorded in the Minutes. With regard to the environment in which we are legislating, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, you will apply the Rules of Procedure with regard to Members and with regard to speaking time. I say, therefore, that by suffocating and being pressed by Turkish NOTAMs, respondents, following the fall of the helicopter and the tragic loss of his crew, in the midst of pertinence to insurance, in the middle of the crucifixional atmosphere for the agricultural sector, in the midst - supposedly - of the government's will to go to assessment and close it, in the midst of this whole climate, I am sorry to see that the Government has, as a strategy, chosen panic, splitting, polarisation and cherries on the cake and television licences. Why, gentlemen of the government? Do you think you are addressing a parliament of parliamentarians who are convinced that you want to rule for four years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you, as we, the Members, to tolerate the systematic violation of the correct way of legislating and the right parliamentary procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we have voted in favour. So please, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you want to escape by moving the difficult ones either by giving another government to come out of this House, or by giving a referendum to the people your promises, which you are moving backwards, so that you do not drink the bitter glass of application, or if you want to escape with elections, I think that you should say that clearly. Because we are now in the 21st century, even though you have returned us with your practices in the 19th century. I would like to tell you that many of the provisions of the two acts of legislation are positive. However, I think that some others are incomprehensible. I consider it to be a set-up of party loose ends and to pay off party letters in view of the back thoughts, the second in the back of the government mind and the Prime Minister for all possible and scripts that I have told you before. I also think that there are such provisions which are inconsistent with the law of need and therefore with legislative acts. I also think that, if you wish to close the evaluation and put the big issues ahead, ask, not only with your rhetoric but also your daily government practice, consent and consent. Because I think there are only Greek and Greek patriotic MPs and MPs here who care for the good of this country and there are not those who are undermining, as you are constantly haunting - and you are addressing Civicism in particular - the course of the country and you who are defending it. Because I'm telling you, if you don't take steps by weekend, you'll break up the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the positions and speeches are being held today in a very serious climate. Greece mourns, our Navy mourns once again, in a time of peace, three officers. Slightly be their soil! As far as the Minister, Mr Stathakis, who referred earlier to a racist delirium, is concerned, let us prove in their own conduct - and Minister Xanthos, who is here, and the Deputy Minister of Polakis - that they have higher education and higher education from us. Let them tolerate - even once - our differences and our different thinking. The SYRIZA co-government, therefore, through an oral MEP, ministers, MPs and officials, accused the farmers of their mobilisations and even brought them to the point of calling them tax-growers, rural-fascists, and what other scabs can be brought down, even saying - Mr Katrugalos - that 90% of farmers say only EUR 5000. It's a lie! Let him go out and ask the farmers and see what their real incomes are. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, recently said that he has fought and will continue to fight. What battles, Prime Minister? The phony and theoretal lectures of Varoufakis, which you sent to negotiate? What battle? That debt write-off, which you dreamt of and remained a dream? What battle? Third memorial? What battle? The falsification? What battle? The closed banks and the capital controls? What battle? The huge wave of illegal immigrants influx? The only battle you are going to fight - and which you have lost, before you even give it - is tomorrow with farmers for agricultural, insurance and taxation. You were electorally shaking memoirs, sharing gifts of Easter and Christmas, raising pensions, promising cheap farmland and duty-free oil to farmers, exercising social policy, but only for illegal immigrants. For everything you promised, but you did not implement. You will be invited in the immediate future to assume your responsibilities, with the judge of the Greek people. Co-government, as well as the newly elected President of the New Democracy, has absolutely no development plan for farmers, in the usual way, in the left, in which you see the future of farmers with colloquiums and collectives. And the central, neoliberal President of the New Democracy should, rather, have given his assurances to the new order of things that, if they promote him as a new nationalist, he will in return eliminate the primary sector of agricultural production in Greece. After all, this was seen by the fact that he, too, voted for two memoranda, said 'yes' in the referendum, made redundancies and recently showed us his true intentions towards farmers, saying 'here, we will no longer be mocking their ears, ending their hypocrisy'. That is, an absolute coexistence with today's co-government. You were very disturbed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the non-partyization of the farmers' struggle and "spiriting" at the view of the Greek flag on all rural blocks throughout Greece. The government's attempt to control these mobilizations, through your trade unions, has failed, has fallen void. Keep going the same way. Put more butter on the Golden Dawn bread! Your efforts did not bring fruit. But at last, tell us what you want. What do you want to tell us? That a farmer who votes Golden Dawn isn't a Greek citizen? Doesn't he pay taxes? Doesn't he have a family? Doesn't he have the same rights? Is there another constitution and other laws for farmers chrysayites? Does he not have the right to claim, protest and fight for his rights and for his survival? Finally, tell us where you reach the limits of your democracy and your tolerance to diversity. You want a cohabitation pact? We want a survival pact! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I'll be done. Do you want to be atheist? We declare faithful to Orthodoxy. You want the illegal immigrants? Take them to your homes, for judging by the statements where you're going...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u478	Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u479	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u480	Hot spots won't be useful. That's enough. Do you want to be submissive to loan sharks? It's not for sale, but it's guarded. You want to sell our country? Fowl, come on! With all this provocative behaviour towards the most productive order, that of the farmers and of all the Greeks, you manage only one thing: the escalation of their struggles. And other professional sectors will follow. Farmers have been betrayed and told that if you do not withdraw what you want to vote on, you are unwanted at your place of origin. And that was collected by several MPs from all constitutional arch. I was one of the lucky people who was able to go on the roadblocks of Pella Prefecture, the farmers gave me their resolution and put it in the Minutes of this House, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u481	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u482	Golden Dawn would then have an absolute majority, and in the next elections we would be a government, if indeed all the farmers, who are protesting today in Greece, were golden. It would be our honor and our pleasure! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u484	Mr President, may I have the floor to clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u485	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, you have given me the floor, but I would ask you very much to complete the list of six Members and then to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Constantinople will be speaking, then Mr. Baltas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u488	No, no. After Mr. Constantinople is finished, the list will be completed. I would ask that the Rules of Procedure be respected. There are two other colleagues left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the fourth Member. Do you agree to talk to six MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u490	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u491	You agree. Good. Mr. Constantinople has the floor, then Mr. Baltas and then Mr. Loverdes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u492	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u493	Then, Mr. Polakis. It's Mr. Baltas. He's a minister. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u494	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr President, the last quarter of the House was heard by various MPs, various parties, such as 'the previous government drowned the immigrants', 'farmers from the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn' - I will come to it - 'Soyble','military Filipinos of refugees'. And I wonder: Did you understand from this phrase who's a neonazi or a leftist? Did you not feel the need to tell a representative of the Greek Government anything about the fact that the government drowned migrants and refugees in the Aegean Sea? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all to be patriots - and farmers must know who they must speak with - they cannot speak with those who salute neo-nazis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u495	And with you who say hello like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u496	...with the people who say hello to Hitler. They need to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u497	Please, Mr. Constantinople!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u498	Why don't you go find them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u499	They must know and choose whether they want the teens and representatives of the neonazi culture in the country or democratic parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u500	Thieves!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Constantinople, on your bill, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u502	It's their choice, and they're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u503	Thieves you're talking about already!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u504	Please, Mr Constantinople, on the bill, because you are creating conditions for discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, farmers must choose if they want to be with those who have taken political responsibility for the murder of the Paul Bridge or the parties of the democratic arch. It's their choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u506	Please, Mr. Constantinople!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u507	They will choose with whom they want to be expressed and who want to represent them. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry but I would not be able to speak about the statement made by the Minister of National Defence of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, who dedicated NATO's current decision to develop forces in the Aegean in order to impose the guarding of operating borders on the three wronged lads. Ladies and gentlemen of the 'first time on the left', on the right, I think that no one could imagine that it would be called the Minister of National Defence and, let alone a Minister of National Defence of your own government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the legislative act, but you will allow me to speak on a point of view. The question is about the amendment to the Music Hall. We have spent five years through fire and iron all of us who have endured much in this difficult situation, having to face a SYRIZA with the well-known phrase. At that time, when we talked about the Concert Hall, he said it was 'complexion' - and Mr Tsipras said so - and today he baptised it differently. You will allow me to say some opinions about the sense of ordinary law, the sense of justice, understanding the people who work at the Congregation of Music, and that the Congregation of Music is about art and culture. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning the government brings the statement of the Grand Music - which I believe the JRC will vote for, because it is in the direction it believes - and in the evening it asks that the channel permits be four. A state-running place is that, too. Look at you see, the Concert Hall at the moment has, through a time process, loans with the guarantee of the Greek State, employees who work, offering a great deal of work in our country and Athens. However, we cannot - in my view - stack the damages associated with the Concert Hall, because the next question will be: Will we also make the loans granted with the guarantee of the Greek public of entrepreneurs? This amounts to EUR 4 billion. For businessmen who are guaranteed by the Greek State, it is around EUR 4 billion. Respecting this process and hoping that the government will not bring a provision at night, which says about the channels that will not enter the process, except four - on four - we ask ourselves - what are we going to do about it? We're going to go state-run? Are we going to appoint them to the ERT? What are we gonna do? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So there is no justice in this provision. In my view, this is what the Greek citizens expect, the thousands of unemployed from all of us, justice. In the way that we move on in its resolution, know that the world, the workers, these entrepreneurs who are trying to survive, will understand that we will not behave fairly against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, please speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u510	You're welcome, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u511	I can have the floor why a report was made by Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u512	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u513	I ask for the floor - apologies to the House - because we have previously heard Mr Constantinople put an issue in relation to the amendment, which will be discussed at the next meeting on the ratification of a convention concerning the Music Concert. From the Step, not much or much, he photographed the party's intention to vote on this amendment before the party and its parliamentary group were even placed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u514	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u515	Mr President, I ask the Bureau and the President himself to delete or withdraw this statement and to delete it from the Minutes. Because, I repeat, we have not raised this issue. We will be placed when his time comes and with our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, excuse me to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u517	Please, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u518	I didn't say what he was going to vote for. I said that the policy of stateism could be about the JRC's political view. I did not say what they would do to the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u519	That, of course, was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u520	There's no misunderstanding. There's been a clarification. It's been clarified, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u521	There's been a clarification, okay? The plenary decided to speak six Members and then you, Mr Balta. Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u522	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin and stick to the contents of the act of legislation, which we are considering today, and in particular I shall confine myself to Article 6 of this act of legislation, which came with the carols of New Year's Day. These are some provisions which are not well known but are very indicative of the dominant attitude. So we see that some of the government's rushphetological practices are still being legislated, and indeed, at the last minute and on the road. And I explain, starting with paragraph 3 of that Article, Article 6. Here, the Ministry of Education gives students undergraduate dual examination for all the academic year 2015-2016, starting in February. In other words, in the February exam they will be able to give the successful students and the spring and winter lessons. This was institutionalised in both previous years to make it easier for students to finish, when there was the maximum school limit, so that they would not catch that limit. With the abolition, however, of the curriculum limit, what is the usefulness of such a provision of a double examination, a degree of examination? In order for the government to be fond of senior students, then, it turns universities into examination centres at the expense of the educational process. It closes the eye, i.e. in an election clientele, overlooking whether this burdens the operation of universities. Here, let me refer to the position of the river, on this matter. Potami considers that such issues should not be in the Ministry's jurisdiction nor a question of opposition claims. All over the world these issues are the full competence of universities, within the framework of the self-employed. In fact, we have seen this happen in the past, that is, in the past years, the so-called graceful period in which those who abstained only a few lessons from the degree could give an atypical period of atypical examination. Such solutions, therefore, should be issues taken by universities, departments and schools themselves, and not by the Ministry, in some HEIs, which, however, will be self-interested rather than inconvenience or labor of dynamic minorities. That was the first issue. The second issue concerns paragraph 5 of Article 6 concerning students of athletes. Here, if the concept of rosphetti gets flesh and bone. Suddenly, the number of recruited athletes entering higher education schools from 3% of the admissions, which existed under the law, especially and exceptionally for this year's year, becomes 4.5%. 3% is made by 4.5% and this is where reasonable questions are born. What happened, exceptionally, in 2015-2016 justifying such an urgent derogation from the law? Of course, why does this arrangement come after the corresponding lists of admissions of athletes were drawn up on 9-12-2015 and were announced by the Ministry of Education? On 9-12-2015, the tables were announced and on 30-12-2015 this arrangement came with the act of legislative content. It is reasonable to ask questions about every citizen of ours. We also put them to the Minister of Education and Culture and Sport, and even the day before yesterday we got from Mr. Friend, who is not here to hear them, the following answer: 'This provision was made to restore - says - the injustice and inconvenience caused by the abolition of an active athlete's certificate, which had to be produced in order to benefit from it'. What inconvenience does it mean, though? This abolition concerns school athletes since the law was passed. It had no retrospective effect, as it was voted on, for the previous years. And if it's about the past few years, how did some people already know, since September, that without the attestation of the active athlete, they can make the application and enter the tables of the athletes? And let's take that as well. Didn't they know the law there? They didn't know they couldn't examine these applications? And those who didn't have the certificate and who didn't apply for them now why should they be wronged if they could have done it? We therefore have many suspicions in this regard about fragmentary, Rusphetological regulations. In conclusion, I admit that these two questions for the two provisions are some of the many things we have seen. And your answers must be clear so the government doesn't blame for rhysphetological and photographic practices, if that's what she's interested in. Legislative acts are a bad legislative practice. When, however, there is an additional field of rhetorical, photographic and clientele rules, it is becoming even worse in the light of the legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen, you have quickly learned the 'bricks' of power, much faster than the first teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u523	Thank you very much. Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the officers and the officer who have fallen in favor of the patronage. Now as far as the bill is concerned. Therefore, please introduce the act of legislation by interpreting the Constitution as appropriate, which allows it only on the request of the urgency or unforeseen. You have, of course, both the knife and the melon, so insert it quickly, quickly, with curiosity. Increase the wages of days, keep in service beyond the expected employees with a Minister's decision only, TIPIDs outside HICPs, extensions, suspensions, exceptions and arbitrariness. However, there is no provision for the relevant costs, since there are all these exceptions, suspensions, etc. In Article 36, for example, the Minister may at least be dissatisfied by circumventing transparent procedures, as he may be allowed to remain in the service at the discretion of the staff member, delaying their exit for retirement. Strangely enough, of course, the judges for whom the Board of Appeal is ruling are excluded are excluded. Here, you're being exposed. It is obvious to try to maintain the logic of past governments. No sinner. It's full of rushphetological provisions. For example, in the evaluation of a staff member, the criterion following an interview may draw on you the full picture of the staff member assessed, but in common sense it is completely diagnosed. There are opaque assessments, everywhere, of the Stalinist type. There have been many nice expressions. It has been decorated with beautiful expressions. For example, a structured interview is held at the choice of the supervisor. So the abolition of the written examination is a clear cause for concern for us. As for these 'justices', what committee is being put before the committee? Of course, your committee. There are also considerable private sector officials excluded, because you arbitrarily claim that the public interest is best served by officials from the public sector, that is, by our own appointed children. Now, Article 32 provides by means of a decision 'extended urgency', with the mere signature of the Minister, without the opinion of the Staff Board, for the placement, posting of a civil servant in a public sector. What, though, is your democratic sensitivity, gentlemen, to bringing us this act of legislation? Here, of course, there are questions. But questions are easy to solve when one sees the effort you make to close the channels. And I'll tell you something. I've spent many years in Italy. Of course, I will refer back to you, and then I will testify. Gentlemen, there are a hundred four national channels in Italy. I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u525	In other countries?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u526	I tell you about Italy, which is a European country. Worst of all?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u527	France, Germany?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u528	Why doesn't Italy make you? Who can we get?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u529	And the other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u530	Italy does to me, because that's where I've lived, and I've had a great time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u531	Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u532	Thank you very much. I'm done, it's not like my time's up. I'm not saying we have more than a hundred. To have what the businessman can stand. Because you can't make the businessman. Then you tell us that so many radios can withstand the system, so many magazines, so many newspapers, and so much you can strike. It's the wrong direction you've taken. The Left has always wanted to fade the democratic voices. That's the way it was, that's the way it is. It turns out now. Who would dare from the other governments, who were prepared to make the wheelchair on the channels?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u533	The ones who relied on these channels...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u534	And I'll tell you something. I see you all the time. I don't mean you personally, but I see you as a party all the time. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'll be right over. You'll send them all to the satellite, which is very cheap already, you won't be able to get them down from there, and they'll be a thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u535	The Minister of Culture, Mr Baltas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr President. Many issues have arisen and would require an answer from the government, but I will only stand on one issue. And I'm going to stand by it because it's some things that haven't been understood. I am referring to the amendment concerning the Music House. We have known history at public level for many years now. It is time to finish this phase of history and move on to a new page with this amendment. Two words about history dry, and on the level of events. At one time, around 1980-1981, if I remember correctly, the Association of Friends of Music coincided with the Greek State for the construction of the Megaron. The public offered the known plot, while the Association of Property of its members, in order to raise the building. That's how it started. The building was erected up to some level - you will remember that for years it was a yapia - and in that construction the music friends had contributed. From there on, he continued, again at the initiative of the Music Friends, in order to find the money for the continuation of the construction. Various loans were made under this procedure. The features mentioned in this convention are two great: one with the European Investment Bank and one with the National Bank, totalling about EUR 250 million. On the basis of these loans, therefore, the whole building, the old and the new Palace was completed and it began to work. Throughout this course, the Megaron had one administration half of which came from the public and the other half from the friends of music. With a kind of veto from the Friends of Music. So the mansion was and it wasn't public. Obviously, it was private law, but it was and was not public because of that composition of its board of directors. From that point on, in 2011 on the Minister of Minister Papaconstantinou, if I am not mistaken, the State took over as a guarantor who was before the loans, their repayment, writing this repayment to the budget. Since then the Greek State has systematically paid the instalments and debts of the loan. The question put to our government was to complete this process with the change in the statute of the Mansion and the passage of the Mansion to the ownership of the public, while still under private law. The aim was that of the whole House and its premises should be made public, its employees should be included in the general rule concerning the public and from there, the objectives of the Megaron should be widened, as far as possible, to include not only classical music, in which the Megaron had specialized with very high quality events of confession, but possibly other activities, which would also obey the high quality that the Megaron has accustomed us to. The reason why it was late since the time of Papaconstantinou to formulate this contract was related to power connections within the Board, with trends in concessions from the then governments to the Friends of Music, and other similar. Now these obstacles have been lifted and at the moment we have signed a contract with the Friends of Music - who held some rights because of the ownership status of what they originally offered in Megaron -, structure a board of directors and compose a new conception of the statutes and objectives of the Congregation, conditions which make the Grand servant of the public interest. I thought this debate had been exhausted twice that we had to bring an amendment so that the House could continue to operate and pay the workers. We have brought twice as a government amendments that have extended the previous situation until the agreement that we are bringing today has been finalised. I am saying this because I thought until this morning that this debate on the substance was exhausted. There were no questions left in connection with the status of Megaron. But I have heard various questions and objections, as to what exactly we are doing with the amendment that we are bringing today. And where the questions and objections were focused is in a phrase, which is in the amendment, which refers to the next thirty years of the Megaron regime. I do not mean in any way that for thirty years we have left the Congregation to the Friends of Music. Not at all. This is the thirty years that, due to previous ownership regimes in pieces of the Megaron, we leave to the Friends of Music the following two very simple rights: one is to have and keep there, at no cost, the Music Library, which is of great quality because it has been set up properly and works there normally. On the other hand, it is possible for some musical events to be organized each year in agreement with the administration of the Megaron. The administration of the Megaron, where he was eighteen with five members of the public and five members designated by the Musicians and created a veto treaty, which I was saying earlier, becomes eminent, where the Friends of Music because of the previous history - and because we want to respect this story - have the opportunity to define three of the eleven members without any other kind of privileges. From that point on, the Mansion passes to the full public's responsibility. This is also supervised by the Ministry of Culture, as are other bodies under private law. The Board of Directors is appointed by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture by 8/11. Three, we're offered by the Music Friends. It is awarded by the Ministry of Culture, like other supervised organisations, through contracts concluded by the State with the new administration of the Megaron. Its employees are normally included in the single wage, but also in generosity, in relation to personal differences, so that their wages are not reduced too sharply. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, the goals are widened because in our understanding it is the use of this excellent building, to accommodate other entities that can fit in there and collide with classical music. We're already in conversation with the Theatrical Museum to house there. CMO has already housed. We see other possibilities. Thus, this truly important structure will be integrated into all the infrastructures of the Ministry of Culture, so that the whole of our country's culture policy can in a uniform way face, use and exploit a set of buildings that have come to us with alpha or beta in our jurisdiction. That's the whole story. It's something that should have happened a long time ago. There have been difficulties until various people are convinced that this can and must be the case, that we cannot make concessions to private operators, despite the history of these bodies and their importance. Therefore, objections of the type'state the Mansion' - one of the causes - or 'private the Mansion' - the other cause - is absolutely out of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u537	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, Mr Koutsoukos requested specific time for the amendments this morning. You have not kept it for the Members and for us. Please give me a minute more to talk about what Mr Baltas said and allow the rapporteurs of the parties and the speakers to speak about the amendments for two minutes. Otherwise, it's not coming out. After all, we decided at the Conference of Presidents on Tuesday to go even to a second meeting in order to complete the ratification of the two acts of legislation. I will agree with Mr Baltas, because we have fought - it reminded him of the history, not to repeat it - to form a positive association of forces to save the history of the Congregation. To those who object, I would like to say that they need to think about what will happen if the Megaron is dominating as an organization, the guarantees of the Greek State and the hands of the Greek State have been suppressed. Those who have a critical reason or something but above all, should think that without understanding it, they are turning to the detriment of the Greek public at the end of the day. Here, we must add the argument of the usefulness of this hive culture in the center of Athens. And anyone who is the shareholder of his activities, that is, he is watching his children, can understand the offer, even now, in these difficult times that form populist consciences of denial of values and everything and the importance he has of Greeks, Greek women, young people of age, older people, to take the breathless civilizations he gives. If I had time, I would be standing in the special provisions, especially those relating to its operation, but also to staff. But I don't. I therefore limit myself to expressing the agreement of the Democratic Integration to Mr Balta's initiative. I would like to remind you of Mr Tasoula's initiative, which had come to an end, but the government fell. I would also like to remind colleagues here that we had voted, as the Minister mentioned, on several amendments. In one, two of these amendments I remember having also taken the floor to support and give a breath of life until the final solution came today. I think we should support her, each one in his own way. We will, however, support it with our vote. As a Democratic Assent, we agree. I now come to two instruments of legislation currently in force. I will do so later, when we have the debate on the other issues, but I will do so right now, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: I will remind you of what the Prime Minister said on 8 February 2015 on this matter. "We will strive to overthrow both internally and abroad the deadlocks that have been created, by immediately restoring the functioning of the Republic.". Then there was no Prime Minister. "First of all..." - Listen! '... the functioning of Parliament, which has effectively been abolished through the permanent legislative acts. We will strive to restore respect for and respect for the Greek Constitution..." You have become the best students, ladies and gentlemen of the majority that you will be voting for today, a practice which is often dictated by exceptional circumstances, but which cannot replace the classic, constitutional and regulated legislative function of the National Representation. You do it and you laugh and you iron out the opposite arguments and you're too fighting! I think you should rethink it, and at least the self-criticism will happen within you. Let's just say on the outside what party arguments you have to get out of trouble. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living the collapse of the SYRIZA, a result which is desirable since they have proved to be fatal for the country and for the citizens of this country, after they have proved to be fatal for the people and for the country. Unfortunately, however, the collapse of SYRIZA accompanies the collapse of our country. As a whole, let's break down. But home and citizens must be supported. We are ashamed of your voters, because it is a disgrace to Greek citizens for a choice. However, something needs to be done here. And whoever comes near you, ladies and gentlemen, is being discredited. Here, in this Chamber, we have put as a Democratic Incorporation - not only us and other opposition parties, but also Members of the Couple - on many occasions the issue of immigration and refugee. We have invoked Mr Muzala's very good example at the end of November to come here, to interrupt the debate on the budget to discuss the refugee issue and explain it, to tell us that the hot spots on 15 December will be ready and to restore it, in his opinion, in relation to the threats to get us out of Schengen. We heard him and we liked him because he had a look really unique for the operation of a minister within the House. I'd say that's exemplary. I myself, too, on the issues of refugees, migrants - whatever you want - which I have in my region, have done within the holidays. I supported him personally with my interviews, not from within me or in the hallways of the House. But Mr. Muzalas has changed. He's not coming. We're asking him to come and he's not coming anymore. Is Parliament afraid? It's his thing. We as a party have taken a political initiative to talk to the government about a matter that the government has led with the logic of the first half of the year, but which has gained such tragic proportions, which has all been a national issue. Since yesterday, two of your ministers, the Vice-President of the Government and Mr Mousal, have referred to the possibility of closing our northern borders not from us others - bringing FYROM up to a player in the region - from a country that no one wanted to approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u539	Well, he's been here since the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u540	Today he was here, answering current questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u541	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u542	Mr. Muzalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u543	So what? In a timely question. Thank you so much! And today we have Mr Dritsa telling us that the hundreds of thousands - the refugee, immigration - in the next few weeks, especially when the weather improves, will be diffused throughout the country. We have therefore asked for a contribution and each party must do so. The Prime Minister met our President, immediately afterwards he put a meeting with Mr Kuveli and for ten days the leaks were on the basis of the enlargement of the parliamentary majority. And we had participated in the public debate in the media and asked us this if we would support the government's initiatives. We are approaching a national issue and we are being replaced by whispers. We've got a reduction in our dignity. Whoever comes near you gets hurt. And it is an experience of what has happened in the last ten days, because we have been approaching a subject which we all say is national. You're not worth it, nor should anyone talk to you. We reject whispers, but we stress the need for national understanding. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Why are you protesting, colleagues? It didn't happen that way? Protest, though reality favors you. They're closing the country's borders. There will be hundreds of thousands of people trapped here and you will have party parliamentary complacentness. Your message does not go through Parliament's rooms. The world has a grudge for you because you fooled him. And you fooled him in the most intense way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u544	You'll see how much you've got!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u545	You guys have us on this one. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u546	In this respect, Articles 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 of the first law act to be ratified refer to the refugee. I said here last week that about EUR 150 million is available - from what we are learning, we are not government - from the European Union to Greece for the refugee problem and 40,000 euros have been absorbed. The President of Parliament says: do not listen to this. It is said by the conservative circles of Brussels. Two arguments that claim the characteristic of the truth. Our report, our own research these days shows as true what is being heard about non-absorption. The causes of non-absorbing are turned back into divisions of Ministers, weaknesses of direct assignments, fears of unworthy government officials. Whoever's scared is not here. Fear is not a political choice. But if you tell me that 'we want to guarantee the absorption', may I ask you: in the five provisions we are discussing here today, ladies and gentlemen, which you want to call yourselves ministers, is there one that will facilitate absorption? If there is, let's vote with praise! Radio silence! It is clear that the Ministerial Council is unconscious. And it is also obvious that these supposedly negotiated negotiations have disoriented public opinion, society's interest in what we have in the Prime Minister. Do we have a Prime Minister who makes decisions or who postpones them, like others in the past? What's difficult to refer to and assign? Does it raise the responsibilities or only the responsibilities of the elections and nothing else when the correlations favour him? We haven't noticed that. It occurs week after week that the country has no Prime Minister worthy of the circumstances, because otherwise it would be its hands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because I have no time, Mr President, please give me a minute to close. I would like to refer to a political issue which I put to the Standing Committee last week. It is about dignity, honesty, the morality and authority of each and every one of them in here. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Twenty SYRIZA MPs asked the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, about the Borgians list, claiming that in 2012, under Minister Vangelis Venizelos, Deputy Minister Dimitris Kourkoulas refused to receive it. Twenty Members signed this. Usually in questions, political responsibility is held by the first. I do not want to speak to my colleague or to speak against him. But 20 MPs are twenty MPs. It's a size. I would like to make two clarifications on this: Firstly, Mr Venizelos was not Minister at the time. Secondly, Mr Kourkoulas issued a communication - it is not between us, it is not a Member - where he spoke of indestructible irresponsibility. I would like to add, inappropriate irresponsibility, because it has never been the result of press releases on the agenda of the issues handled by the ministers and the meetings they have, it has met with Mr Borgians or it has been in contact with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u547	Mr. Loverdo, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u548	And Mr. Boryans, in an interview with SCAI, said he received the relevant list in spring 2015 and informed the Greek Government in November 2015. Oh, no, no, no, Keep an eye on our words! Words walk and create souls. It is inaccurate to say that this reproach, which other majority colleagues in the majority, have moved with their media interventions, is inaccurate. The list is here. I see Mr Alexiadis here, Deputy Minister of Finance. I hope, Minister, that you show good results, because so far you have been very generous in overreacting, too enthusiastic in the bad words, in the offense of opponents, but you have no results. And because you have no results, as far as criticism is concerned, your time is coming, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u549	Mr Kammenos, a special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has been asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u550	Madam President, I have asked for the floor in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u551	According to my list, you are well below me, Mr Polakis, at least after six, seven speakers. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u552	I shall try to be quite brief, Madam President. Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will start and close with the House, and we will also say about the legislative act, because we have also said so in the committees. The Independent Greeks - and I personally since last year, since the history of the Megaron began - have dealt with it closely, I thought it appropriate, both as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament later, I tabled a question last May, which I will give later on for the Minutes - because the financial uses of the Megaron had been under control. It has never been checked because it is forbidden. They don't get tax information or insurance information. They act like a state in a state. To help the honourable Member, Mr Loverdos, who said about the guarantees and their deductions, and to inform him, because I am sure he did not know it, that the Greek State to date has paid from guarantees for the Congregation of Music in 2010, 5.247, in 2011, 20.561, in 2012, 16.901, in 2013, 16.886. I have numbers by 2016. Total EUR 59,596.908,20.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u553	Will another two hundred fifty be swallowed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u554	No, no, I'll explain it now. Fifty-nine million has already paid the public. The guarantees have been deposited. A guarantee would mean that the borrower, who has borrowed with the guarantee of the Greek State, is unable for any reason to pay and the guarantor comes and pays the Greek State, the Greek taxpayer. According to the information we have at the moment, the outstanding outstanding balance of debt - if you want capital alone, but I will say the whole - is 326,33 million. I repeat, EUR 326,33 million. This is what the Greek people are called upon to pay. I'll note something charming, but it's too, too serious. In 2011, when Mr Papaconstantinou, in mid-memorandums, found the lenders and while he took forward measures of 18% in GDP - more than 24 billion - and horizontally - badly against many, and the IMF said that at the time he did not need so much effort to put forward measures and to destroy Greeks' income in the private sector and in wages and pensions - at the same time it came to an agreement with the lenders to pay the public at that time 245 million euros. The Congregation of Music, as the dear Minister said, has the "Friends of Music". Who are these Music Friends? Why is the Greek State coming today to forgive friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, the "Friends" who have been mismanaged for twenty, thirty years in the Music Concert? Should we pay EUR 326 million, while we are looking for 50, 100, 200, three hundred, five hundred, of VAT, from wines, from drugs, from anything else, to cover the summer deal that we made - and we welcome it - so that we do not go bankrupt in July? Why would you give us EUR 326,3 million? Mr. Papaconstantinou was extremely lucky because he found artistic lenders. And I address the question directly to lenders: why did creditors agree in 2011 to forgive EUR 250 million to an Agency that was directly involved in the media? Am I right? What for? Why, ladies and gentlemen? The lenders were chasing me, the other one, putting in prison people, mocking pensions horizontally with wrong multipliers, and at the same time saying "Greek taxes, go fetch 250 million of clarine friends"? I don't understand you. What are we coming to do here today? We're not giving any forgiveness. I also ask the government with which we are confronted. Has it been managed? What do we receive? A sworn accountant came to tell me: “Will you take these? Is that how the loans came out? Is that how it was managed? That's where the money went?' What two speeds of artists - workers? Why are there two speeds of artists - workers? Why are you loading the public at the cost of payroll, payroll at special speed? What for? It's ever happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u555	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Bourra, please very much. When I'm done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u557	Am I disturbing you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u558	Yeah, you're bothering me. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u559	Are you going to make an observation about where we're looking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Kammenos, I run the conversation. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u561	And I keep going: We get a hundred hundred and seventy thousand square meters of real estate. Is there an assessment of an independent valuer of what the value of the real estate is today? What does the government get exactly? We're voyaging the taxpayer with 326,000 euros. We forgive the PASOK, the New Democracy, the Finance Ministers, the Culture Ministers, who have all gone through and have not been interested in granting guarantees. Because it is free to swallow the bail and pay it for the Greek State. And he says to you today, "I took the property." Do what do you want me to do with it? And now we come to what Mr Baltas said. Thirty years why don't I get a euro in my contract? So I'm taking the property for thirty years, I'm giving it back for management at the OMMA, at the Music Hall, even by my own majority, and why don't I get a euro? I mean, I'm losing 326,000 euros, I'm putting up the pay roll for thirty years with zero revenue. And I ask: what is the control mechanism? Will his statute be changed? Is there going to be a check? Is there a business plan? Is the new management gonna put us back in the bucket? Will he put us back or won't he put us back? And who's going to check it out? Will the Greek Government give a guarantee again to regain violin loans? The people are hungry. He needs an explanation. I'm not an artist. I am an artist of justice, equality and control. It is not possible for the Greek state to turn management by law to those who destroyed it and put us in the bucket and say, "Take it and I don't want a euro". Why isn't he going to the TIAD? Why don't we give it to the Austrian Philharmonics to give us EUR 5,000,000 a year, for thirty years, 150,000? Do an act. Make a plan. I really don't get it. The responsibilities have been initiated by Mr Papaconstantinou. They continued in New Democracy. It's clear. Today, however, we are all looking together responsibly to find solutions to everything. We have legislative acts for the Minister for Maritime Affairs. Boats are on their way. Sad people. Ministry of Development. Ministry of Health. We were looking, with my friend, for the PSE. We've got it. Thirty-four million more by accident, the media! It's just the media again. Unpaid fines of PSE 34,000,000 euros! And will we get them to participate now in the permits, while they owe fines and, obviously, will they also be charged with the payroll tax, VAT and income tax? We'll see about it next week. And I would ask the Minister to bring us the evidence. I am going to make a small parentheses here, but it is about the media, because they were all the same shareholders. What do the DUIs have responsibility for not collecting the EPP fines? Because we heard it was regional channels. Was he in Kalamata? Florina? Chania? What DUE did not go to collect the certified fines of advertising tax and of the PSE? We want full transparency. Tomorrow we have a competition. We vote on leave tonight. Why would he come to the contest, with what right, someone who owes the public? Will it be provided for in the law? And we made all this with our dear Mr Alexiadis. So I'll get him to join me? If, for example, it has chapter 3,000 euros and owes 2,500,000 euros or owes more and has negative funds, will I get him to take part in and get permission from me to resurrect my new channel in two years? We're gonna have to bring regularity here. Red loans will come. And they will come because this government is working to get the red loan management done. However, the red loans of the Grand are made available to the Greek taxpayer. Thirty years we say, "Take it up that you were an excellent manager, with a minority, but don't give me a euro because I'm alarge, because I'm gonna bring chimneys as well as clarines." This is not how the public is managed. To go to the HIAD his stock. To make use of the property. To come by the vow to hand over, sign SOL, Grant Thornton and say, "This is what you will get as a public body, that's the value of 170,000". And from now on, since the accounting office says that I am losing revenue in this - it says the report - I must no longer lose as a public body, I must not cost either direct or indirect. In conclusion, I shall refer to the CEDEFOP, because it is very important and has to do with infectious diseases. And this government is helping the CDC to work. The CEDEFOP has a very specific activity in the country, of strategic importance, a very responsible role. For anyone who does not understand, the disease transmitted is extremely dangerous. The main ministers and the doctors who are among us know his role and we do well to help. For education, the interior, the energy we don't have. What about Defense? What can we talk about? Businesses had to work to get tax information. Of course, if "Meto-Meto-Meto-Meto-Athens" or the "Greek Defence Systems" were Megaron, they would not want tax information, we would not bring them into the legislative context. Anyway. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks are very concerned. I will table a question for the Minutes, which shows the guarantees they have swallowed into the Greek State. That's for anyone who wants to read and see what's happened so far. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We will be voting against this amendment for the reasons I have just developed. I am not currently convinced of the reasons why the Greek people should now take 326 million on their back, close the story about the wardrobe and give me the forgiveness of PASOK and New Democracy, which synergys with friends of music and not with the friends of democracy and truth from then on have saved the people, put the same managers and continue for thirty years not to give me a single euro, that is to say, to create costs from now on. We must tell the Greek people the truth and we, the Independent Greeks, will vote against it. In other legislative acts, we are voting in accordance with the provisions as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos for keeping time. Mr Alexiadis has the floor now. Mr. Alexiadis, help yourself with time because we're completely out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u563	I will help, Madam President, but because Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis are absent abroad, I am obliged to speak about the bill as well. I will try to limit as much time as I can, but issues need to be raised in relation to the provisions and political issues that have been raised since the morning in this Chamber. I am embarrassed to have the lewdness of speaking more about the provisions. But I will try to talk about political issues too, because it must not be seen in any way that the government has nothing to answer or that it is afraid of anything. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the title of the draft law must be added after the words 'ERT S.A.'. (A'184)', three words: 'and other provisions'. As regards both legislative acts, the Ministry of Finance recommends that the provisions of the two acts be ratified. In Article 1, the matters of the CEDEFOP shall be regulated. Article 2 extends for eighteen months the validity of the Greek State's guarantees to the Bank of Greece. Article 4 provides that travel expenses of officials of the Ministry of Finance may be incorporated and paid. On the occasion of this article, I would like to dwell on the whole story that has been heard today and the criticism of the previous days. Some are trying to discover dragons, ghosts, put names on the table and don't make the elementary effort to read the documents submitted to the House. So if someone reads the explanatory statement of the bill, it clearly describes in Article 4 that this provision came to cover employees of the Ministry of Finance, who travelled on a temporary basis abroad in 2015 or extended their stay on the basis of their service, in order to participate in extraordinary discussions and negotiations. They come here and make criticisms and try to create impressions because they do not give them the 20 a.m. cards and the various "pads" other arguments to hit the government and try to find arguments here. What is all this criticism about? It says this in the special report that they are fed up with. For 15,000 euros. To cover the costs of officials from the Ministry of Finance, who were forced for extraordinary reasons to go abroad to represent the country in a very difficult year create a whole issue. But we're moving forward. In Article 6, it is the extension of the term of office of directors to independent authorities. The proposed regulation complements Article 7 of the Treaty. 4111/2013, with the reference ‘... except for the Directors General of the Ministries and Local Government Bodies and the Directors General of the Independent Administrative Authorities’. Article 21 adds a new paragraph to Article 58 of the Treaty. The Commission's proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 4174/89 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal is based on Article 100a of the Treaty and on Article 100a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 22 extends the time limit for the entry into force of Article 55(1) on the Code of Tax Procedure to avoid loopholes. With Article 23, we have an extension of the list of successful candidates for the competition to fill vacant organic positions of the judiciary's Legal Board of State. In practice, 30-12-2015, with Article 1, we have a special purpose company exemption from HICPIA. Because, at this point too, we hear criticism, that is, those who criticise this article of the government, what do they propose? When there's a need for investment, when the previous years did what they did, what do they suggest? To stop this whole process for formal and bureaucratic reasons and to force the TIAD not to proceed to the rest of the procedures? Under Article 19, tax and insurance information is provided to the company under the name "Greek Defence Systems ABEE" and everyone knows very well about the company's relationship with the country's defence issues. Under Article 20, insurance and tax information is provided to the company "Metal Industry Epirus SA" without retention in order to ensure the possibility of a contract with the company "Greek Defence Systems" for the production of materials that are an essential part of the ammunition intended for the Greek Armed Forces. Finally, Article 21 gives tax and insurance information to the ‘Greek Air Industry’. I think the reasons are obvious. I don't need to talk about that anymore. As far as the general issues of the bill are concerned, however, ladies and gentlemen - for the other articles have spoken sufficiently well in the Committee on Economic Affairs - I would like to refer specifically to the Minister for Health's speech in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Today I would particularly like to address the Minister of Education's speech, which covered both political and other issues, as well as the other ministers who have spoken and answered all political issues. I would like to stress, however, what this is, which is above us today and is hovering as a cloud. It is the main political conflict that we know very well why it is happening these days. We know very well why these days we have this whole attack, this whole misinformation. We know very well why people are trying to make the hair. I have, however, been following the proceedings of the House since the morning and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Do you know what the feature is that unifies criticism in the government? The absence of an alternative political proposal. We're hearing a lot of criticism of insurance. A proposal? None. We are hearing a great deal of criticism about the refugee issue. A proposal? None. Unless a proposal for refugee is what some are trying to say between their teeth or some outside the House, that we should do what others have done or what happened in the past. No, ladies and gentlemen. We in the refugee population are also proving our position in relation to the interests of the country and our position in relation to these people, who have led to this adventure. And those of us who come from the families that came from Cappadocia, Asia Minor and know what refuge is, know what it means to come with your clothes and have lost half your family, cannot accept lessons of patriotism and religiousity from those who don't understand what is home, don't understand what Christianity means. We are critical of taxation, for example, and we have heard no proposal on what else the government should do. And I will come to the criticism of a previous Member, where he ran a cold sweat on my back when he said the time of criticism for me is near. I provoke at any time, whether in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in plenary or anywhere, to discuss tax policy issues and what happened yesterday and what is happening today. Because the question is still unanswered, which I put in every speech of mine, and I will put it from this step, what has happened with Lista Lagard? Because people dare come here and question what Mr Boyarns said - fortunately, he has said it at a public interview, fortunately they are recorded in videos, on the responsibilities of previous governments - and they do not answer the fundamental question. We're gonna apologize because for the Boyars list, we've been delayed three weeks to identify the first names. Yeah, we'll apologize for that. We had to do it in three days or three hours. The ones that took three years to identify the first name on the Lagard list what they have to apologize for? Those who are still covering, with their silence or with their obvious political support, tax-government, for which the public prosecutor (why are they, gentlemen, the Lagard List) have confirmed taxes and have found some very comfortable 3.3m euros and are going and paying and still some people consider themselves innocent of blood and have no problem with them? On these issues, then, answer in here. And whenever you want to compare your tax policy with the government's tax policy, we are ready to do so, especially on certain points. You are criticising us on legislative acts, but the Prime Minister and the Ministers have said that they, like many other things from what the government does, are not our political choice, but our political necessity. But I would like to remind you of something, because you have probably forgotten. Do you remember any act of legislation on 31 December on the advertising tax which was in the first Memorandum of 2010 that the then independent General Secretariat of Public Revenue - in in introductory form the independent - with certain protagonists and leaders, brought provisions here and referred to their implementation, which would start the next day a year later? What do you have to say about these acts of legislation? Unless these things have been forgotten, you do not know what was happening and you cannot justify why you were depriving millions of euros of the Greek public - I will say below about this, because you are usually struggling for information - of the television advertising tax. We, therefore, do not do so. Legislative acts, like our other actions, are politically proof of our direction. We bring her with great pride and show what's going to happen next time. Madam President, in order to be consistent in time and to facilitate the debate, I am closing by submitting to Parliament's minutes complete information, for the House to be informed, because a matter was raised in the past few days with the information I tabled to the House by Mr Kammens. I'm not talking about Alexiad's evidence. Alexiades, like every political official of the Ministry of Finance, is not justified in having his own information on tax secrets. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have therefore submitted to the House details of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue in relation to the EPP fines and the Television Advertising Tax on the channels. Of course, those who give the ideological direction for many of the speeches in here and for the criticism of the government came out immediately in the news reports to attack Alexiadis and the government. No problem! Let them say what they want! We are, however, tabling figures today. We are tabling a document from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue in response to our own document calling for this information to be submitted. So because there was a question about who the debts for the advertising tax are and about the issues of the PSE fines, and there was a communication from the respective Owners' Union that it was not about the big channels in Athens, but about the region, I was affected and because they questioned the services of the Ministry of Finance, but also because I was from the region, I asked for the information. A careful reading of the elements of the advertising tax shows that the whole of Attica is EUR 18,086,000. For the rest of the country it's 181.072 euros. With regard to the elements of the PSE fines, of about EUR 7 million, EUR 4,800,000 is in Attica. So they'll stop some people trying to hide. Data is data. Channel debts are data. If some people don't suit numbers, the solution is not to learn another arithmetic. The reality is this and they have to understand that at the moment there is a major political conflict, the content of which the government understands very well and will go through it because it understands where the right is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u564	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Mr Pafilis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u565	It is obvious that today's meeting is shattered by the death of three Warship officers following the fall of the helicopter, for which we have both expressed our grief and condolences to their families, calling for a thorough investigation into the causes of the downfall of the helicopter. We do not have any specific information, but we put it in the same way as 'the meaning'. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to raise some serious issues relating to NATO's involvement in refugee immigration, which we consider to be a very dangerous development. We also consider the government's responsibilities to be enormous with the proposal put forward by the Minister of National Defence - which seems to be accepted yesterday in Brussels, as I think. What do the proposals say? They say that Greek warships will operate in the Greek marine space, Turkish will attempt in Turkish waters and in international waters, the permanent NATO naval force, one of the forces present in the region. They also say that the administration will be German for the next six months and that there will be respect and responsibility for rescue as well as for international law. You will allow us to say, expressing our great concern, that not only do we disagree radically, but we believe that dangerous roads are opened for our country. With NATO's involvement, the conflict in the Aegean is actually promoted under NATO's umbrella. Why? We will say our arguments and judge the Greek people and those who see us and listen to us. First, NATO staff consider the Aegean area to be a single operational area. They don't separate borders. And this was seen in the most dramatic way on the night of the Imian people, when NATO's view of what Imias and NATO are said: "This is a single defence area". He didn't give any answers to the reality. Secondly, Turkey, with NATO's backs, is questioning Greek sovereignty in a number of islands. So she thinks they're belts of her own responsibility. And you understand what consequences this has and what consequences it will have in defining, where Greek ships are patrolling and where the Turkish patrol and where NATO are patrolling. The first result of this agreement is Turkey's current NOTAM, which is unacceptable, is rejected, and it actually says that anyone who wants to rescue the region will get permission from us. Here is the first results that devastate Turkey's aggression in the general game. The second point is that the permanent NATO force involved a Greek french french, the "SALAMIS" french french, but also a Turkish one, 'AROS'. So Turkish ships - the Turkish ship in particular - will attempt in international waters under the blessings and agreement of the Greek Government, supporting all the previous objective. And the military are aware of it, and the international ones understand it even more. Thirdly, Turkey's maritime cooperation aircraft, which are already flying with NATO umbrella, are in fact invading - but it is considered legal because they are NATO because NATO wants to have a picture of the Aegean - constantly the Greek airspace. Fourth theme, the permanent naval force, SNMG2, as it is said in English, namely NATO's permanent naval force, currently consists of four ships, three warships and one supporter. There are three others - let us say this - who act in the Eastern Mediterranean and which are NATO again. The trend, direction and commitment of NATO is to increase these naval forces in the region. Why is that? To deal with the refugee, migration? If anyone wants to see what's going on, let him remember the incident with the Turkish fishing vessel and the Russian warship. The reality is that, beyond the co-management of the Aegean, large NATO forces are coming down - and they will come down with the blessing of the government and the agreement of the other parties - because in the region it smells of barbecue, because at the moment NATO really wants to give an answer to Russia, which has blocked to some extent with its own weapons systems Turkey itself. And because we realise what is happening in the region and that the war is evident to escalate, we believe that the Greek Government has enormous responsibilities, as do those parties who support Greece's involvement in such imperialist actions in the future. That is why we also call on the Greek people to stand alert and stand by. It is not of minor importance, these international developments and for one reason above. Because all you say - and you and you - about the economy and all that - do not rush, Mr Vorides, you will hear them! - they have a big question. It is the development of the crisis in the global economy and in Europe, which, as we have said, is the crisis - and that is why we considered graphics, etc. -, coming back, deepening, being generalised and likely to be a synchronised crisis. See Deutsche Bank. It's a trillion! See also other developments, such as delays in development and problems in all capitalist economies. And history has proved and proves that such major crises are no more than wartime. We bell the bell and those who want to hear it. We believe and say again that the Greek people have no interest in being involved and involved, nor will they shed blood for the interests of big capital and monopolies. As far as the general political debate bill is concerned, it was said here by the rapporteur - I think - of the SYRIZA that they continue their policy in favour of, if I am not mistaken, social policy. I mean, "to burn you, Yannis, to lure you oil," as they say! Let's see what's going on right now. Is there an acceleration of the anti-popular government's policy? There is! No one can question her. More and more burdens are borne by the Greek people, by workers, by small and medium-sized, and by insurance and tax. And that's all he's taken off the street. What does the government do, but what does other parties do? When you voted, Mr Voridis - you protest - on 14 August, you knew what you were voting for! Don't do now that you don't even know because SYRIZA makes you such a policy and continues yours, that you now look for forgiveness of sins. You can't do that! It's all your fault that we got this far and you go this far. So the government makes some disorientation moves, they have no basis. One is the parallel program. What is it? No anti-duty. You crumbs! Slightly! Secondly, he brings the television topic and tries to disorientate. In fact, things have been heard, which I don't know how you count them, but they are very dangerous. Do you connect the matches to the intercourse or the bazaar for sharing television licenses and others? So, all this world on the road - beyond some - has something to do with or affected by these things or the hot problems, the dead ends and the disaster that is before him is what makes him on the street? You're not saying anything different. That's what previous people said. And the PASOK and the New Democracy that rip their clothes today! What did they say before? Motivators, usually, were the usual suspects, the Communists, the JRC! And if it were to be a minority many times in various mass movements. We take the responsibility that we call on the world to come out and fight and give it perspective. We never hid that. But not so! Full copy? And I come to the slander of the farmers' struggles. I heard Mr. Friend before, and I didn't understand what he was doing. As far as farmers are concerned, is it going to take on the role of someone who was in PASOK before? So all the farmers, all those on the road, are on the way to sabotage the Greek economy and drop the Greek Government? Of course not! We know they play games and other powers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me two more minutes, please. The second issue. Dialogue. Really, where do we live? I heard before Mr Alexiadis. Where is he? Is he gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u566	I'm here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u567	Don't you have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u568	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u569	Are you kidding us? And trade unions have proposals, and farmers have proposals. The farmers have tabled proposals and not what we would like. They made a compromise and they say some direct things. Don't you know these? What do you call them in dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u570	The Prime Minister was waiting for them, but you're not sending them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u571	If you don't answer anything! What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u572	You don't send them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u573	What do you think? This is where sixty-eight blocks were tabled, not the JRC's proposals, but what everyone agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u574	You don't send them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u575	Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u576	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u577	You don't know the dialogue? Don't you know what dialogue requires? Say, accept or accept, discuss or not discuss. What are the proposals? So, should they come up here and talk to you about slaughtering them? Why do you play this game when there are suggestions? Everyone has proposals!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u578	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u579	Say you don't do it! Haven't they been filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u580	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u581	They're the same! You don't know them? Don't you read the papers? Don't you get an announcement? So what are you telling them? 'No, that's foreseeable'. So let this whole story stop with dialogue. Now, Golden Dawn has also come out to speak and even put Bouta on the mark - of course, when you have learned with hood from your political ancestors, with hood you will also work in the House - and it speaks about the problems of farmers and is trying to get in. But they have been isolated, in very few respects they are. The farmers know what role they play, the little one trying to legitimize, they are kicking out. Even the cops kicked them out, they thought it was a privileged field they went to sell figures. And what are they doing now? What they always do: Who do they put on the mark? Not the common agricultural policy, not the multinationals, not the large capital, but the JRC. That's their fault. It's their Buttas. Uh, of course, they see him in their sleep. What can we do now? It's like they're to blame for other things. And we believe that the farmers will isolate them even more. They're slanders, they work with a reasonable underworld, because they're there, they're hidden, and we know them very well and they'll do well to collect them and not catch us in their mouths again. Finally, you say you are putting a class mark on your policy. That's ironic. Serve the capitalist system, serve it under barbaric and aggressive crisis conditions, apply what dictates you monopolies and say I have a class mark, mercy! You want to say we're going to relax, you want to relax them? Question. Why does no Minister answer why do you not accept the three amendments of the JRC? Is this a overthrow of the system? Is it socialism? What are these amendments? It's only a few basic measures for people to live. Because with these measures you're taking, they don't even live with the current. How much do you give, 500 pounds? How much time is it that a small household eats? That's what we're suggesting. That's what they need to live for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u582	Mr. Paphie, it's over, it's been both minutes, let's go for the third one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u583	Why don't you answer? Not even a sample amendment? You've never done it. And I've told you this before, and we've caused you before. So we say he has a class mark. Your policy is a continuation of the previous one, it crushes the popular layers. That is why the answer is twofold: the organization of the fights of farmers, workers, poor medium-sized farmers. The great interests of others support them. And these "private farmer" and all the others you take, they have said them before and in fact, they intend to drive away from their small and medium-sized enterprises, as in the field of scientists. But this is the line so that the space can be opened and the great monopolistic interests can be entered. That is why we say it is a one-way road: fight, popular alliance and strong JRC, so that these barbaric measures can be stopped and the road to a general overthrow can be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u584	Mr Arvanitides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u585	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are no words to describe how the government legislates. Once again, they come to the House for ratification of acts of legislative content, the ones you were opposition to, and most of the arrangements could come for discussion and vote in accordance with the normal legislative procedure. Rather, we have to conclude that the government is beginning to fear dialogue now. Since I do not have much time at my disposal, I will only focus on Articles 10 and 11 of the first legislative act, which regulate matters within the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. In Article 10, the Minister legislates a new procedure for the conclusion of lease contracts - chartering of waterways for the transport of refugees. Why is he doing this? As he said to the Commission himself, there is no legal framework covering the needs created by the refugee flows, and that is why he uses the legal framework, which governs the contracts for barren lines. In other words, it considers that the transfer of refugees should be treated in the same way or almost the same way as those treated in public interest contracts to cover the needs of maritime connection of the islands of Greece. The two topics are completely irrelevant to each other and any attempt to interact or relate them, even through joint legislative reports, is completely inconsistent and I explain: Subject: Maritime chartering of ships for the carriage of goods or persons for the public interest used to be carried out by the former maritime transport directorate, according to the applicable public procurement framework at any time, without any particular problems, even in the case of the chartering of ships for the transport of persons on the occasion of exceptional circumstances. So, Minister, you did not implement a formally tested procedure, which fully incorporates the provisions of the WC. 118/2007 on government procurement? Perhaps, because as a government you choose responsibilities to be exercised by the ministers rather than by the public administration? Subject: You are not referring to Articles 10 and 11 if, despite the compensation provided for in the charter contract, the contractor will also have the right to claim fare from the passengers transported. It is noted that in the case of contracts for ferry services, on the presumption that the ferry companies, in addition to the price provided for by the contract with the Ministry, are charged with paying a fare for their own ticket or for the carriage of vehicles or goods. If we combine this with Article 11, which states that the cost of the contract of chartering is borne by the State budget, I think it is extremely difficult to draw the necessary resources from the European Union, so that all the burdens are borne exclusively by Greek taxpayers. Before I close, I should like to refer to another provision of the bill, which concerns 'Filkeram JOHNSON'. In the way the government legislates, not only does it not solve the problem, but it makes things even worse. The aim should be to support both the two hundred and twenty-five former "FILKERAM employees" in order to obtain compensation that they are entitled to, and the undertaking of the cooperatives of the "BIO". First of all, the extension of the suppression of auctions creates two major problems. Firstly, it delays the payment of compensation to the two hundred and twenty-five former employees of ‘FILKERAM’ and, secondly, increases the problems in the installation, since as long as there are no auctions, there are no necessary revenue for the protection of the area, so that the plundering effect continues. A proposal that could be supported by both sides is the transfer of space from the Ministry of Labour to the cooperative of the employees of BIO.ME, whose needs do not exceed two hundred meters, since their activity is not dependent on the facilities "FILKERAM". Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to close with a comment. You ask for a consensus and you legislate by means of legislative acts. You are proposing a debate on important issues, at the same time that you are addressing all issues with amendments. You trust the public administration and the institutions, but the ministers are constantly relocated. As long as you do not understand your mission and your obligations, things will get worse and the responsibility is unfortunately exclusively yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Mr Anastasiades has the floor. Mr Anastasiades, you too, respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, Madam President. They are still ringing in our ears, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity and of the Government, the words and protests you have voiced about acts of legislative content coming from previous governments. You then took advantage of the practice and talked about an institutional manoeuvre. Today, of course, you call for exceptional situations, invoke the country's acute problems and the very difficult management of the situation. And it does not acquit you, Mr Alexiadis, the argument that acts of legislation have brought other governments before you. What we are living today, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of co-government, are the results of your governance, the results of a year of governance. You have received a country with political stability, a country with zero deficits, surpluses, with credibility, with problems, but a country with normality. You have achieved within a very short period of time with your wrong operations and with a climax in the divisional referendum, which has led to the closure of the banks, to bring back the recession, deficits, unreliability, instability and uncertainty to the country's isolation and anxiety, of course, for tomorrow. There is no Greek citizen today in this country who believes or accepts that things are better today or claim to be better than they were a year ago. Your Government today is stricken between all the contributors to the negotiation with our lenders for insurance and other measures and increased social wrath. It is locked in on the one hand between the unadulterated promises to restore pensions, at the previous memorial levels, and the re-evaluation of the tenth pension, on the other hand, in the very specific commitments that you have made by accepting and signing the memorandum, which you accepted by playing in the dice of the country's bankruptcy. Now, following the same tactic as last year, the tactics of the eternal negotiations with the lenders, you expect to get time, but you don't know or you don't know what to do with him, and it seems that last year's nightmare is hitting our door again. The country, because of the unfortunate and irresponsible policies, of the open borders policy implemented by the government, which you have implemented for refugee and immigration, is in danger of turning into an outward refugee camp, into a huge detention and being isolated, while just yesterday the Vice-President of the Government, Drasakis, and he then admitted that there is a risk that the Greek to our north will be closed down. The Athens Exchange breaks down, while farmers are on the streets almost a month and threatening to get down to Syntagma Square tomorrow, the situation within the country is becoming explosive, without any prospect of convergence being seen on the horizon, and every other thing than favourable one can characterise the partners' attitudes toward us. Somehow this can describe the situation a year after SYRIZA - ANEL rule. In this context, the explosive, economic, political, social, the government without a plan and strategy has decided to legislate and operate - at least until now, to see what it will do in the future - by means of legislative acts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] By focusing on the provisions we are debating today, which were signed and issued on Christmas Eve - I shall end, Madam President - of 2015 and on New Year's Eve, we find that they are a number of provisions that are different and incomplete to each other, i.e. the necessity and urgency of which I have not understood and will not understand, because I see that many of them have not been such a necessity. There was only a party of purpose. Why did I not understand what the need, Mr Alexiadis, was for the costs of moving abroad from the Ministry of Finance to come by legislative act? What necessity imposed this I have never understood. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a constitutional diversion, which you all understand, but you find it difficult to admit for good reasons, because most of these provisions relating almost all of the Ministries in spite of the urgency criterion, in accordance with Article 44 of the Constitution, can cover. As our rapporteur has quite rightly said, you have introduced the procedure for the legislative versions of the 'worms' legislation into the Greek legislative procedure. The House has, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss, to formulate, to pass bills in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Constitution and not to ratify legislative acts. This means that all senses of parliamentary procedure and democracy are being dismantled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u588	Mr. Anastasiades, we're close to seven minutes. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u589	I shall conclude, Madam President. And while there are weeks when the House is vacant, because there is no bill, you bring legislation in the form of urgency or acts of legislation. While we agree or would agree with many of these provisions, ladies and gentlemen, we are unable to support them and vote on them, protesting how you legislate and how they come for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u590	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for five minutes. You're the last speaker. Immediately after that, we will be adjourning the other agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u591	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u592	Mr. Carras, you'll put it in tomorrow's sitting. It'll be at 10:00 by 12:00. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We are talking about the ratification of the 15th and 16th legislative acts of this government over a year. Of course, something needs to be cleared up from the government's point of view. Or we have a parallel programme, which was designed, presented to the world and therefore, since October, it should have been implemented, or we are dealing with exceptional arrangements, which also require the drafting of an act of legislation. Either one is or the other. It can't be both. So if you're telling us, you're telling us and we're making the same criticism. In fact, what is it? It is a stitching of provisions, some of which are necessary - because of the flaws you have shown politically, the knot reached the comb and some provisions had to be legislated - but also other provisions, rhetoric and managers, who had no urgency. Of course, as we have said in committee, we agree with some provisions, such as the time-limit for extending some programmes, which, by your own bad legislation, were not able to be implemented in 2016. For you have not added any additions, no extensions of the programmes. You are simply saying that ‘the nine-month programme, which we did not manage to implement as planned in 2015, should also be extended to 2016’. Of course, once this thing happened, it was done. This, however, is until the regulation on exceptional expenses abroad of the ministers and advisers, I think it is far too far away. I have been placed in the past, when SYRIZA on the top was shouting about legislative acts, that when it comes to an act concerning society and problems, we should consent. However, let the rulers do not push through these acts and other issues, which unfortunately raise objections and thus there is no climate of consensus. Gentlemen, you need to apologize more generally and you do not. You've got a lot of suffocation. Can you tell us what was intervened, what happened in the country since December 2014, Mr Alexiadis, until today, when in December 2014 the insurance company could give 13th pension, today where we have arrived, you have eaten half the 12th and you intend to eat the next?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u594	Tomorrow morning at 10:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u595	Mr. Tsipras's governance has been intervened. What has happened in the economy since December 2014, which could have 12,000 tax-free, to date, that you have increased all rates of taxation to everyone and you are not talking about tax-free? But the SYRIZA command. What has been intervened between December 2014, which criticized us for 13% of revenue and expenditure tax with farmers, until now that you want 13% to do it 26%? But the SYRIZA command. What has been inserted since autumn 2014, when you criticised us for the possible increase in VAT from 6% to 9% only for the tourist beds, since today you have increased VAT to 23% for all tourism, for all focus, have you abolished the discounts on the islands and imposed VAT on 23% for all supplies to farmers? What's interfered? But SYRIZA's one year rule. What has been intervened since last autumn, when the banks had passed all the stress tests - the hardest I would say - successfully by the summer that they had to be recapitalisationed? But the SYRIZA command. What was intervened last year, which we agreed with the partners - now as neo-monstrates, you have made them as a bogeyman - the CSCE maintains with revised updated criteria, until today that you have agreed to abolish? What's going on? But your negotiation and governance. Ladies and gentlemen, a little modest on the issues you have raised in the country. What took place in the autumn last year, when we had a positive growth rate after six years in the country, to date that you have brought it back into recession and in 2015 and 2016? But the SYRIZA command. What took place in connection with the surpluses and again there were deficits? The SYRIZA government. You laugh and it characterizes you, Minister, as I address you so long, because you are indeed the brethren's representation of the government, which, while there are so many social problems, are farmers on the streets, you say where the proposals are. The proposals were therefore tabled in the debate on insurance. Mr Katrugalos went out to this step and said: 'I thank the Democratic Partnership, which tabled comprehensive proposals on insurance'. This is where your Minister said it. So come tomorrow to the question that will be discussed on agriculture, to give us answers about the proposals that we have already submitted to you both for farmers and for other social groups and for tax. And don't avoid trade unions, I've told you before. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos informed us, the identified dead are now two, Lieutenant Constantine Pananas and Liberty Officer Eleftherios Evangelos. Missing is Lieutenant Anastasios Tulitsis. At this point I would like to make the proposal in plenary to keep a minute's silence on the two dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u597	Immortal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u598	Immortal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u599	At this point I propose to interrupt the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: a) the 24-12-2015 Legislation on urgent matters of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance (A'182) and (b) the 30-12-2015 Act on Legislation on Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Nicosia Policy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Health and Economics, Development and Tourism. (A 184) and other provisions’, for tomorrow, finally Friday, February 12, at 9.30 p.m. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u600	We are adjourning the sitting here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u601	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘State the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport’. This bill was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to the ratification of this agreement. First of all, in committee, SYRIZA and the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, voted in favour of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR, in favour of the JRC, in favour of the Potami, in favour of the Independent Greeks, in favour of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u602	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u603	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u604	Wait. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, two written requests from Mr Venizelos. But before I give you the floor, Mr Venizelos, to say the procedure I have to propose. Since Amendment No 186 has been tabled together, and I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speakers should be placed for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u605	Madam President, I would like the floor on a point of order if you would be kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u606	I will give the floor first to Mr Venizelos, who has written the request for a regulation, and then you will also speak. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u607	Madam President, this bill is introduced under the special legislative procedures referred to in Article 108(6). It has been voted on in the relevant Standing Committee with a majority of more than 4/5, so it is debated and voted on briefly and therefore its ability to accept amendments is obviously limited because it changes its principle and nature. It is no longer a bill of ratification of an international treaty, it is no longer a consensual bill adopted by a large majority, and there is a crusade bill of another kind that needs to be discussed under another procedure. The Rules are clear. So the procedure you are proposing directly infringes Rule 108(1) and (6) of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, the amendment which is being introduced is clearly inconsistent with a seal. It is therefore in breach of Rule 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 74(5) of the Constitution and, in addition, it is obviously entirely irrelevant to the object of the draft law, which ratifys a convention with Belarus on road transport. So you realise that this amendment cannot be introduced for discussion and that the nature of the procedure changes. You too, as President of Parliament, must refuse to raise the matter for discussion. You have an obligation under the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution to refuse to open the debate on this matter. In any case, I think that this kind of procedure is deeply insulted by the parliamentary system, directly by the Constitution, by the Rules of Procedure of the House, but also by the concept of democratic dialogue. Here's the government, we can talk about it, but it's normal. To be introduced into the committee responsible, to have an initial debate, to have consultation, to listen to the bodies - if necessary - and then to put it on the agenda properly. What urgency is there when you say this matter is pending for so long and does the opposition not allow you to choose the members of the National Broadcasting Council? I say all this before we open the debate on the crystal clearing and raw unconstitutionalities of this amendment. I do not go into the substance of the matter, nor of the legal nor of the institutional nor of the policy. There is a question for a preliminary ruling, and I do not want to place the Government or the parties on the question, I would like to place the President of Parliament, the President of the Parliament, who is in office, who must honour his role or his role as guardian of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not talking about your face that you know what friendly feelings I have, but about the occupant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u608	Mr Venizelos, it would indeed be a good thing to respect the Rules of Procedure, to have no legislative acts, to have the ratification of international conventions on their own. I'm generally talking about today, because we're all busy. However, we can see that the reality, both the one we have been experiencing in this time and the one we have lived in previous years, but is forcing us to do it. I will not go away because I was not a member of Parliament, and I do not want as a non-parliamentary member to invoke what was going on in the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. I'll tell you what happened last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u609	Invoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u610	The last time, then, we again sanctioned - it was the Ministry of Justice - an agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Canada and there again there was an amendment to increase the members of the PSE. There the issue was raised again in relation to the Rules of Procedure, as you will remember, a rich dialogue has developed. It is not an alibi that this was done both in your governments and in the New Democracy. Because I invoked a number of sanctions for contracts that were implemented and at the same time had amendments. In any case, however, I think repeating that debate 15 days ago, on 19-1-2016, will not add anything, given that the government is considering it to have spent too much time, months since the law was passed, months after the election of the President of the Republic and answers to the Conference of Presidents, considers it to be an urgent matter. I put these in the mind of the House. If you think that there should now be a dialogue with the same arguments, I should like to call on the secretariat here to bring me all the conventions you have ratified together with amendments, I will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u611	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u612	Here you go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u613	I'm sorry, but I wasn't in that conversation. If I were, I'd react...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u614	You were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u615	No, I wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u616	You were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u617	I was not in this debate when you said that the House agreed to directly violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. And I don't know who you're talking about, either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u618	I said it, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u619	So we can all be free racist and xenophobic. The resumption of infringements and infringements does not create a law. And, in any case, there was obviously a reaction to the previous amendment, because it was certain that today's amendment and many others would follow. Because this law and, as I have predicted, it will not be implemented. The government just creates a diversion scene. She can't control the refugee. It cannot handle major issues of national sovereignty and security, and we will see what happened to NATO. He can't close the evaluation. A comprehensive proposal on insurance cannot be presented in society. He has lost the country's political management capacity and the diversion is the fight against corruption, the bad guys, the conspirators, the government's political enemies, the media that made SYRIZA a majority and Mr. Tsipras. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And we had us in six metres all the years of the national and patriotic struggle to keep the country up, all the years that SYRIZA and his partners were saying raw lies, fairy tales to the Greek people, who promised him paradises that were nonexistent, so that the dangers now arise direct and tangible in the courtyard of our home.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u620	All right, Mr. Venizelo, your proposal has been heard. Let the others talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u621	You have a great responsibility personally. And the President of Parliament should be at his seat now, and he should give the answers, not take responsibility for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u622	No problem, Mr. Venizelo. I'm taking responsibility. I don't have a problem. I don't want protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u623	He must carry out his parliamentary duties, which are heavy and conflict with his party and his party's government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u624	Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u625	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is the obvious here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u626	You are very interested in Belarus, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u627	We're talking about the award.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u628	Mr. Pappa, hold on, if you have any kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u629	I'm holding up. I'm taking interference from Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u630	The ratification of this Convention is therefore introduced between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus, as you quite rightly said, by Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and, in particular, paragraph 6, because it was voted on by a majority of 4/5 in the relevant Commission. First of all, Madam President, this is the case here: at the mistake of the Government - the government is not renowned for its legal adequacy in the legislation which bombs the national Parliament on its hands - it has fled to the title of the amendment to add 'and other provisions'. As a result, the amendment was introduced so that it cannot be incorporated under the current legislation and therefore can be debated. If it is tabled and before we enter the debate, the Minister responsible should rise from his post and table a legislative improvement and add words here. Apparently, he missed him. In addition, Article 108(6) sets out how to vote without a debate on analogous application of paragraph 1. As you can see, and even if we want to overcome it - I want to be honest, we do not want to see it at all - this provision is provocative, unconstitutional and harmful. But let's assume we'd show some understanding. However, it cannot be discussed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108. It is absolutely impossible that the opposition, whether major or minor, may not be able to speak. So, Madam President, two pounds can happen: the first and the most appropriate is the government, which, in any case, has not tabled the amendment, since it is first and second, it has not asked for legislative change, for it to be withdrawn and for it to be reintroduced normally in legislation or for its own sake as a legislature. In any case, however, there is no possibility - and I make it clear - that this amendment should be passed by the Greek Parliament under the provisions of Article 108. This is a major challenge to democratic civilisation. In any case, the government majority of the two legislative acts fell into two unconstitutionalities this morning. Citizenship cannot withstand this institutional behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u631	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u632	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u633	Because I did not hear whether what you said was about the previous bill or this, I would like to tell you that in the previous bill on legislative acts in my speech I mentioned 'and other provisions', if you refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u634	No, that's what we're talking about. We went to another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u635	I'm withdrawing it, Mr. Treasury. I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u636	I am pleased that Mr Alexiadis is aware of the formal procedures, which the government obviously does not have, Mr Alexiadis. Because what you have rightly done - and that is why I did not respond when you spoke before - did not do so by the Minister of State. Therefore, I say again: because the Constitution of the country and the Rules of Parliament are not empty content, which we invoke when we want and as we want, this amendment cannot be debated in the current Rules of Procedure! It can't be! You have not corrected the title of the bill in good time, Minister. And if you despise the formals like that, I imagine how much you will despise the essentials.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u637	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u638	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u639	Mr. Loverdo, you expect other parties to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u640	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u641	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u642	I asked for the floor first, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u643	I'm sorry, I didn't see you, Mr. Pappa. I was looking the other way. Wait, Mr. Theochari. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u644	It happened this morning, not this afternoon, Mr Theochari. Madam President, I have listened very carefully to Mr Venizelos's position and I too, saying that his position, if I understood it correctly, was based on the scientific knowledge and the subject of Mr Venizelos's knowledge. In a large part, I will agree with the questions he has asked, and I will ask myself, as will the world: what is this premiere for the National Broadcasting Council? So what's it gonna change? Will Mrs Alexiou or Mr Major be changed and the names proposed by the President of the Parliament at the Conference of Presidents? Why is the government so rushing and really wrongly bringing this amendment into a simple sanction that has to do with our country's international relations? We're abducting. And because the devil is hiding in the details, will we say: does the government want the number of licences, with the number of channels, to make the House 'Siloam' for the existing pan-Hellenic channels? Are we 'pleasing' the debts of the barons and making a new start again with the same people? I wonder. We still don't understand where the government is going. Looks like the presence of government officials and SYRIZA officials in all systemic media, there is no open conflict. Mr. Poppas accepts a night-old representatives of the canals, speaks, arranges, builds things that eventually appear to be a freedom of the legislative power, in the absence of us and in the absence of the will of the Greek people. With regard to the sensitivity shown by the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy, I would like this man to have had the same sensitivity two years ago, when relying on a specific feeling in terms of the religious feeling and the faith of Mrs Gujamani of the Ice Arena in Orthodoxy, he made the worst blow to try to convince her that I am Velzebul, that I am taking fires out of the mouth and that I am a satanist and my hands are burning chickens. It was based on such phenomena that this gentleman, who was also released with the Baltaku video, and no one, both from the New Democracy and SYRIZA, stood at the essence of the Baltaku video, in what was said in the Baltaku video. Let me remind you - it is not a plenary debate, of course, but we are all political people and we are all watching the news - that Elias Cassidyris was acquitted of the Baltaku video case. And the Baltaku video, Mr. Samaritans of the New Democracy, and colleagues of SYRIZA, are now part of the file. Go now and untie what Samaras and the people of the xenophobic, pluralist, treacherous right are involved in Greece. Don't smile, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You're worthy of their followers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u645	Mr. Theocharis has the floor, then he is Mr. Famelos and Mr. Karras. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u646	Thank you, Madam President. The government trespasses the Constitution in every way it can do so. It is obvious that this leads to a generalised sense of lawlessness and leads citizens not to respect the law, the warning difference between the first and third worlds, the developed countries and the underdeveloped countries, which are respect for the law. Unfortunately, that's where we are. I will not, however, go any further into the substance of the constitutionality or otherwise of this amendment brought by the Minister of State. But in the matter that has been raised, namely the fact that the government chooses to bring this very serious, unconstitutional amendment in our view to a bill which is being discussed in summary procedures shows that the government is afraid of dialogue and of the opposition. There was a bill today which was discussed under normal procedures. But the government was afraid. It did not bring the amendment to this bill to discuss and bring it into a bill which is being discussed in a process in which not all other parties have a say, unless they disagree with ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u647	I have proposed, Mr Theochra - you have not heard me - to change the procedure. But keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u648	You have proposed to change - and it is to your credit - because you are a representative of legislative power. That's not good for the government. He didn't do it with that purpose. The government has tried and cannot avoid the debate. We shall therefore be discussing this amendment as it should. But why is this whole precursor? Why the rush? Did the government fail on all fronts, could it not control systemic banks, could it not build the parallel banking system and now escape as all Greece understands? He's escaping, so what does he have to do to escape? To blackmail the channels - and runs to do so - to possibly change the electoral law so that there can be no stability in the government and then resign and leave? Is that the purpose of the government? It should be clear to us why it brings these anti-constitutional provisions so quickly and so quickly. They must be withdrawn, otherwise they must be discussed in full and regular terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u649	Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u650	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, three and a half months ago in this Chamber the government made a great democratic cut. With the law that we voted on, we introduced the application of the Constitution to the functioning of the Greek society. And that was the key feature of our choice, the implementation of democracy, the functioning of transparency and equality in the area of television frequencies. At the same time as the licensing process for television content providers, we also guaranteed the provision of a digital signal throughout Greece - which you had not done for so many years - and at the same time suspended the private monopoly in the provision of a digital signal and created a framework of independent and fair operation in the area of television frequencies, which you did not dare or could not - why you did not have any powers - to do so. However, with the choice of the Greek people in January and September and with the support of society, we have made this important change, which is a fundamental democratic right for our country to implement the Constitution, what the Prime Minister said from the Step of programming declarations: 'Because we are every word of the Constitution', we proceed with the application of Article 15(2). Television frequencies are under state control, which you have chosen not to do all the time. But you have been trying to delay this democratic cut for three and a half months, not to allow it to be implemented. And the government's not in a hurry. The government is obliged to apply the Constitution to the people, which is probably for a party in the House that asked us is not an important document of the Hellenic Republic. But we are in a hurry and expect the opposition to make a president, we have waited for three Continuing Conferences of the Presidents of the Parliament to agree on what is your constitutional obligation, namely, that it be established by unanimity, if possible, the Independent Authority of the National Broadcasting Council. However, all these efforts, even two of them, which extended the number of the PSE and one which transferred the competence of the Minister of State to the House for the number of television channels, were not acceptable to any of these movements of consensus and cooperation made by the Government. Because we insist on the implementation of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has made it clear that we will not do behind this basic democratic obligation. And because we understand that this is a question of the whole House and it must be discussed in front of the Greek citizens - for our benefit, it is, do not worry, you will not harm us - the President has also recommended that there should be rapporteurs and speakers from all parties. However, you have had so much precursor - and Mr Venizelos and Mr Dendias - to raise a point which you have not even heard of the suggestion, which says places and not a concise procurement procedure. Mr. Theocharis did not even understand that we are not talking about unconstitutionalism now. Mr. Theochari, let me inform you. There will be a constitutional issue, we are sure, you will try in every way to stop what we are going to do, to be a competition and to be granted licences. Your partnerships are over. There will be permits and competitions in front of the Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u651	Tomorrow in practical terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u652	We know you'll do everything possible. We don't have your guns, it's a fact. We have neither the deep state nor the wealthy offices nor, if you like, the finest words of the lawyers in the House. We have an ally, Greek society, democracy, the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u653	Tomorrow, this. Societies tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u654	Because of this ally, and with this ally, the channels will enter a competition and be licensed. Do not worry, it will be done and it will be done in accordance with the procedure to be followed, with the debate proposed by the President, and the Bureau has done well, which is not an independent authority. We recognise the autonomy and ethics of the Bureau, but they are executives, our comrades, and they proposed that the debate be held in this House, which none of you would dare do when it was in the government. Let me say this, Mr Venizelo. And you would not dare, as you did not dare so many years to solve the problem of lawlessness on television channels. We ask for cooperation, for competition and for all to be treated honestly in front of the Greek citizens. This will also restore this part of democracy in our country. That's how we move on, because the people want it. Don't the canals want it? People want it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u655	Tomorrow the people will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u656	Let us move on, Madam President, with your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u657	Tomorrow the people will speak with the tractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u658	Don't yell, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u659	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u660	We'll talk the same again, but the repetition is the mother of learning, because we've seen it all. First of all, Madam President, we think the procedure is unacceptable. There is an amendment which has nothing to do with the contract. So you continue on the road that the previous people have drawn, because they have done so too. Just then you denounced them for a coup - SYRIZA - and now New Democracy denounces SYRIZA for a coup. You're probably both coups after all if we get into that logic, and that's what it is. So we do not agree with this procedure, which exists. Don't be in a hurry to tell them, 'cause you were saying other things. When were you right? When you said it was a coup, or now that it's legal? Say the New Democracy and the others when you were right. When you guys did it, it's a coup, and now that others do it, it's a coup. This game is playing. This argument is about the redistribution of the market as a whole. The government also wants to open up, it seems, to other players - let me say so - the media issue, and the opposition, the New Democracy, defends the current regime. What do we want to say? What's the point? Leave the koruna on transparency and the rest. The point is that information to the vast majority, which is socially good, will be in the hands of business groups again. The fact that he's going to go into class with the contest, etc., that's at least for naive. Because even the subject of your transparency has been raised in the bill. Why do you exclude foreign listed companies so that the shares are not nominal to a natural person? Aren't underground things coming up again? In the end, what it reigns, when the briefing is in the hands of business groups, is the interest of business groups and so it is completely "accidental" to make all the same news from time to time. So we're not going to enter this fake controversy, which is happening as far as who's going to give the permissions, i.e. whether it's Giannis or Giannakis, whether it's Nikos or Nikolakis. So, what PSE is independent? Is the National Broadcasting Council independent? Since when was it independent? All the decisions he made were independent! Therefore, we do not enter that logic. We want to raise the question of workers who are not protected or may seem to be temporarily protected. Be careful, don't note, because there's more. At first, yes, they were supposed to have so many. However, labour relations and much more can be changed along the way. We consider this to be a very serious matter, the issue of media workers. That's why we're saying we're not in this conversation anymore. It's a mock, like I said in the morning. It wasn't you, Madam President. As far as the amendment is concerned, we will vote 'at present' and we will explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u661	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u662	I'll give Mr. Carras the floor, and then I'll fill in my proposal. I will not give you the floor, Mr. Loverdo. We're done. I will submit my proposal and then the procedure will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u663	It's wrong! No, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u664	You have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u665	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] This morning we dealt with the same issue in plenary. It was put in relation to the ratification of acts of legislation, whether real discussion can take place or texts should come through legislative acts and be voted on as they stand. So the same problem is being raised again this afternoon. The House, on the one hand, which is the quintuosity of democracy and, on the other, the only opportunity to discuss the crucial issues of the country, to be able, in detail, not only to address issues of constitutionality or of non-violent nature, but, on the other hand, to reflect consequences not only on economic or other interests but, on the same hand, on the lives of large groups of citizens or on the whole. Madam President, the Chamber and the House in general have been afflicted by the law of the canals, by Mr von Wogau. Regulation (EC) No 4339/2015. We started in October to discuss, supposedly, the entry of a class intolerance. So we, too, have tried to contribute as much as possible to the crucial provisions of this bill. However, when we saw that critical responsibilities are being removed from the PSE, we have now seen that these provisions cannot be applied because they are being dealt with as an agreement or not with the Constitution. So I raise an issue, Madam President, at this stage. When n. 4339/2015 was introduced into the House, accompanied by a resolution in plenary and a report by the Scientific Committee and gave us the guide to see what point Article 15 of the Constitution can be applied, to what extent we can have constitutionality or not. But amendments, a series of amendments, one 15 days ago in the form of an amendment and one today, which I must say is more critical than the previous ones, because it now places a huge range of powers on the Minister and through the Minister to the General Secretariat of Communication. So, if you wish, in order to be able to put us in this Chamber, to accompany it with a report from the Scientific Office of Parliament, because there is such a possibility, Madam President. There is an opportunity under the Rules of Procedure to be accompanied by a report. It is a prestigious instrument for the Scientific Service, which we trust and trust in both its objectivity and its scientific competence. We cannot, therefore, make it easier for Parliament at the moment to express a majority view of unconstitutionalism, a minority view of constitutionality and the Greek people to see us out and not to understand what is happening or what is being dealt with in this Chamber, because at the end of the day none of us are convincing. Because the very means we are discussing at the moment are in line with our views. Madam President, I would also like to insist on this and ask the Minister in particular, and I would also ask the President of this House and you. We want a report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, because we have to give our own opinion. I do not want to continue this 'violin' anymore, if you allow me to speak, every day I will be here or in the committees if something is constitutional or something is not. I'm human and I may have made mistakes. I would once again ask that this matter be raised, even with the amendment - the Rules of Procedure allow it - and we have reports. We have services in the House. To conclude, I would like to say this: an enlarged debate on these issues, an open debate even on amendments and a prior consultation. In minor provisions we declare, we state that there is consultation, we bring forward a report, we mourn it, we hear opinions, we conclude. No, not with amendments to this crucial issue, which - not least - has nothing to do with information! It has consequences for workers too. He said yesterday, Mr Papapas on television on a channel - not to say what channel that might have been - that if we have to bring a regulation to have five hundred workers, if we cannot cover the posts. Mr Voutsi's argument on sustainability is now being made, which we have been discussing in the Conference of Presidents. So let us stay on this, let us begin to have an objective view and move on to a normal debate with the help of the scientists in this House. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u666	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u667	Madam President, the cycle has not been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u668	Leave it, Mr. Loverdo. It is not a debate in which everyone can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u669	The circle isn't over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u670	It's an incidental matter. That I gave the floor is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u671	Give me the floor to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u672	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u673	Let's take the floor for all the powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u674	According to Article 67, not everyone talks. Just the signer. Open article 67 to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u675	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u676	I have given the floor to everyone so that we can hear the opinion of all the parties and complete my proposal. Only the signer speaks. Minister, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u677	You'll give me the floor! There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u678	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u679	You'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u680	I'm not giving you that. They are so many parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u681	I am a parliamentary representative and ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u682	He has not spoken as a parliamentary representative, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u683	Mr Venizelos spoke and said very well, clearly. Leave it, Mr. Loverdo, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u684	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u685	Please! This conversation won't last five hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u686	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u687	If you'll excuse me, the Qualified Opposition I think it's produced...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u688	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure! Minister, don't do this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u689	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u690	Read article 67, Mr. Loverdos. You've been in this House for so long! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u691	Madam President, I would be done! You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u692	The Qualified Opposition, then, says we're in a hurry. I must say that this is a shocking argument. And you know why it's shocking? Because we can't return it to them. We do not have the opportunity to return it to them, because for twenty-five years this process has been paralysed! And while the competition was scheduled, it never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u693	Minister, and you're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u694	So the parties that are currently in opposition, for the only thing they cannot be accused of, are rape.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u695	Madam President, the circle of parliamentary representatives must be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u696	Sit down. You'll hear them. Ask the floor later. I asked for the floor for a minute. Would you excuse me, Mr. Loverdo? What kind of behavior is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u697	Mr. Loverdos, I gave the floor to the Minister, as I am entitled to. Sit down. The Minister will speak and we will discuss what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u698	Madam President, I have the floor and I will take it! Share! I've been asking the floor since the beginning, and I'm in turn. The procedure will not go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u699	You don't have any order. He asked for the floor, and I gave it to him. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u700	The procedure is not going to go any further!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u701	Madam President, I would ask, even by way of derogation, that Mr Lovers be given the floor so that we can continue. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u702	Help, Mr. Pappa!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u703	Mr. Loverdo, you really are problematic! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Read Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. For Christ's sake! What's that? You're not entitled to take the floor. By way of derogation, for two minutes, because your insistence has no limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u704	No derogations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u705	You're an outlaw right now! You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u706	You'll give me the time you've given everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u707	No, Mr. Loverdo. Because all the parliamentary representatives will be asking me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u708	But everyone's got the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u709	It was a symptom. Anyone who wanted to represent the party could speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u710	Madam President, now you are slipping mentally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u711	Mr. Venizelos made a written request. Let's get to know each other. Now it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u712	Mr Venizelos spoke of the Rules of Procedure, as the Rules of Procedure stipulate. Then, on the basis of his proposals, he opened up a debate. All parliamentary groups are entitled to participate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u713	Let's get this over with, you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u714	I'll have five minutes, like everyone else, and I'll use what I want from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u715	No, you won't have five minutes. I give you the floor by way of derogation
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u716	No bias against us! You're out of line!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u717	Then we have the objection of unconstitutionalism, which is a whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u718	If you want the procedure not to go any further...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u719	I mean, is the tsubukas gonna pass here? I don't understand! You need five minutes, or else you'll dismantle the meeting? What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u720	No sluts at all. You're offended in order not to go ahead with the process. You're being excavated to block the process. You do it on purpose! I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u721	You, Mr. Loverdo, do this all the time and intentionally. Are the news reports now or not yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u722	Madam President, in your proposal tomorrow you should take advantage of the proposal made to you by Mr Venizelos, which really is in line with the function of the Bureau of Parliament and each of its members. He gave you the procedure laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Constitution on the amendments. If you do not follow it, there are other solutions to mitigate the problem that has arisen. One problem, which, in its conclusion, is involved in our competition, the problems which one or other of us put in our conflicts - if you wish - and in our dialogue - to be more mild in my expression - the President of the Republic. Everything that's gonna get out of here tonight involves the regulator of the regime. That is why, at least, as far as Parliament's internal affairs are concerned, we must be perfect. I repeat that if you do not follow the proposal that has already been made by Mr Venizelos, you should explain to us which legislative procedure you are following. You in one way or another - not to say another word - told us that it was ratification and, I imagine, the ratification procedure, that the rapporteurs and the special speakers should speak about the amendment for five minutes. You are obviously unaware, Madam President, that over the last few months the Bureau of Parliament has given the floor to all parties, even to what they have agreed. In fact, with the Bureau's permission, issues are also raised outside the framework of the ratification convention but within the pulses of society and politics. You do this as the Bureau for two minutes or three minutes. You come today and say "we will end with ratification and then each party will take five minutes to discuss such a serious issue". You're making a mistake! First of all, you should see Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, which is the uterus, and then tell us which specific provisions you will put to the table, so that the debate on this amendment can be conducted. If you do not do it and insist on these five minutes, you are out of context and you will see in the course of the discussions that we will lead to a dead end and conflicts. So you should mention the time that the rapporteurs and the special speakers have, the time that the parliamentary representatives have - we learn here from the parties that party leaders will come - the time that the parties leaders have and the relevant ones, because if we do not know the procedure, some time, as you have done this afternoon and others, you will tell us that we do not have time. Madam President, we will have time! And if you don't want to give him to us, we'll take him ourselves! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] That is why, Madam President, you must return a page. These wicked things that you recommended to us at the beginning, five minutes each party, forget about your proposal, firstly, to be based on the Rules of Procedure of the House and, secondly, not to violate the principles of reason. Otherwise, it will not be a good thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u723	Mr. Loverdo, the threats they're going through! Leave the threats to Parliament, because I do not know how you have received this courage! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, since I will accept your half request, I will read Mr Venizelos' request to conclude: 'Mr President, I would ask that the floor be given to me under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u724	That's next, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u725	I'm sorry. 'At the beginning of the debate on the draft law 'Simplification of the Agreement, etc.', in order to raise objections...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u726	No, Madam President, that's not my request. It's my other request!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u727	I'll say it all! And you continue "in terms of constitutionality in relation to the ratification of the amendment with a general number of such and special ties of the Minister of State". I read your other request: 'Mr President, I would ask that the Rules of Procedure of the House be given the floor as first signatories'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u728	That is what we are now in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u729	So we're on it. This is therefore an incidental matter. According to Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, only the one who puts forward this incidental issue is taking the floor. Nevertheless, I gave the floor to those who asked him. He wanted Mr. Loverdos too, because he cannot be placed. Only us if he doesn't talk! I gave him the floor. Only the Minister should not have spoken before Mr Loverdos had to speak, because his position would have been historical.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u730	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u731	Mr. Loverdo, let it go. You made the threats. Quiet now. Didn't you get rid of it? In any case, we now find ourselves on the point where I made a proposal to speak as speaker, parliamentary representatives, party leaders, and so on, which is considered a little bit. I'm improving my proposal. We said that I would take the floor to fill out my proposal in order to get the floor and those Members who wish, given that we have specific hours in which we have to finish, two, three hours. Look at it and judge. You all want to? All right! [[Noise in the Chamber]] The point is that we all, under this debate we are having, are judged because, of course, by delaying and voting tomorrow, it does not change anything, gentlemen. So, all this potential, competitive, abusive and threatening, I don't understand why it develops within the House. Maybe we'll figure it out in a little bit. However, I will give the floor to the Minister who is entitled to it, because it is his amendment and we will decide immediately afterwards. As you know, according to Rule 67, the President-in-Office decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u732	I should like to inform the House that the Minister responsible has tabled the relevant legislative improvement, which adds the words 'and other provisions' at the end of the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u733	I think that the opposition has really put an argument at the debate table, which we cannot oppose, the argument about haste. It's obvious - and the pan-Hellenic thing knows - that you were not in a hurry to be a competition at all. Panhellenic understands, too. As the time passes, one is to blame for the Minister's responsibilities, the other is to blame for the incompatibility with the Rules of Procedure of the House, soon - we are being watched by all Greece - will be to blame for the incompatibility with the Constitution. We wait for them and we know them all. It is clear that you were not in a hurry, because for twenty-five years you have lived together with the rule of lawlessness. I just want to ask you: I do not accept the argument that we have surprised us. The bill has been passed for three and a half months. On the day of the vote, we have explicitly said that this is the first step and we have called on the Civic Opposition to contribute to the establishment of a National Broadcasting Council. Nothing happened. After that, we expected the inner-party processes of the New Democracy. We made two parallel moves of goodwill to build a consensus. Prophecies in sins at every stage! And we're coming now to see the last act of the drama. One thing I'm going to tell you: Cut the catalyst and get on the field to play ball!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u734	On the basis of what I have said in relation to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the sitting shall decide on the matter. On the basis of the position I have made following Mr Venizelos's position, although I think it may not be a test of all that is being done in this House this critical time, as it was not in the previous one - without that being an alibi - we cannot go on with all this controversy. I believe that this incidental issue cannot be raised at the meeting, because only on 19 January we voted to increase the number of members of the Broadcasting Council only to ratify an international agreement with Canada. So I am not talking about your case law and your own practice, when you were government, so that I do not make any setbacks. I am referring to our recent vote on 19 January and I reject Mr Venizelos' request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u735	I object to your decision in accordance with Rule 67. Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u736	All right, Mr. Venizelo. I shall then put it to the vote by means of a motion for a resolution. I suggest everyone who agrees with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u737	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u738	Here you go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u739	My objection is that the incidental issue concerns the fact that the amendment is delayed and irrelevant. You reject my objection to the Rules of Procedure by saying 'I shall apply a procedure by economic means' to discuss a late and unrelated amendment. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot decide in cold blood to violate the Rules of Procedure. You can make adjustments to the time of the debate and time of the speakers when the matter is discussed under the Rules of Procedure, not to the contrary to the Rules of Procedure. So, whatever you say, no matter what you vote on, we have here a matter of internal unconstitutionalism of how to vote on the amendment. And you know very well that the Court of Auditors traditionally controls internal unconstitutionality in its own matters. The other branches of justice do not do so, but, if you follow that path, and this case-law - because it is a case-law - will change. What we are saying, we do not talk about it so that the majority of SYRIZA rejects it. See you in the Minutes and will be judged by Justice and History.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u740	I should like to mention at this point that pursuant to Rule 67, an incidental matter is considered, among other things, - which I assume Mr Venizelos is not written, but I imagine - to be the cause of a breach of a specific provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u741	I developed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u742	Before I spoke about the closure of the debate on this matter, I mentioned my supplementary proposal, which you certainly did not comment on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u743	Your proposal to which Rule of the Rules of Procedure is based?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u744	Why do I have to say, Mr. Venizelo? I propose that the House speak - not only by way of derogation from the provisions that it would speak, because it is ratification of an agreement, only the opposite - initially and the speakers and Parliamentary representatives, and I complement this proposal by speaking to Members in such a number, but also by being able to hold the debate. Well, based on all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u745	How many MPs and how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u746	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u747	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Teddy. I said I rejected your request, Mr. Venizelo. If, however, you want us to put it in a vote on a motion of censure, we will do so. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u748	I will not trouble the National Representation, but I would also like to ask you to document the effect of your proposal on how to debate it. And I do, why? I don't do it to trouble you. I wouldn't have that rudeness. I do, because I want to explain exactly to the national Parliament what it is all about. We're not hallucinating. We know very well that the parliamentary majority will vote on what the Minister is asking for, namely, the four permits, with the exception that, although it will be a formal law, it will not be a substantive law, it will be an administrative act. I can assure you - and I will soon check on this - that this administrative act will be offended to the Council of State with a request for suspension and cancellation. I also predict that both of you will achieve their result. But I would ask that your own decision, Madam President, on the procedure and where it is based, should be recorded in the Minutes of this House so that the Council of State can completely cancel this whole illegal procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u749	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u750	I really want to submit my opinion. We have seen here, instead of Parliament, a state of aunt Lena, the joy of the child. In other words, we saw the first side saying 'you guys, we made it first', the other side saying 'no, you made it first' and the President said 'no, we did it on 19 January'. And because both children - because the debate you are having today is for young children - have you made the same mistakes, we have to repeat them? Should we start a procedure in which lawlessness is now legalised? I will not go into the essence of unconstitutionalism, where there is indeed a matter. But I will say that the PSE is constitutionally responsible for the telephony operations. Neither the Minister is responsible, nor the plenary. In any case, gentlemen of the government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government will have the majority. Either with the four-fifths of the Conference of Presidents, you would have your own people at the PSE, the so-called independent authority, or if you were responsible for it, Mr Papa - you would make the decisions as Minister. You have now moved these decisions and your responsibility. I say to you that in a proper regime, in a state of nationalism rather than a regime that continues, I would say, a tradition of xenophobia, as you are now - from the slogan 'outside NATO', we went to NATO to separate us into the Aegean - the executive authority, the Minister, should define the right television, as defined in the article of the Constitution for Education, that is to say, the national education of the Greeks, which does not exist. In any case, I would like to say - and to close - something that will play a great deal today in the channels. What's he gonna play on the channels today? The substance of what is right or wrong will not be played - each party considers it - said every representative of the party. The battle will be played, Mr. Loverdou and Madam President. This is gonna play, Mr. Loverdo. And I want you to give me your opinion if the President gives you time. Shouldn't you call, Madam President, the guardian of this House? Imagine that Mr. Loverdos was Mr. Papapas and I would call on the President "No, don't talk to me like that!" Isn't that how Mr. Loverdos talked to you? You would now have called the guardian and all the "chococanals" would have come out and said: "The challenge of the Golden Dawn in the Greek Parliament". Otherwise, we're the hybrids and we're ruining the atmosphere here! Mr. Loverdo, is that right? You're co-responsible. The people see and judge us. The people tomorrow come down with a tractor or without a tractor. The people don't have to eat, and you arrange for the canalarchs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u751	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd Gymnasium of Tornavos. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In relation to the question raised by Mr Tindemans in accordance with Rule 101, the amendments and the articles of the amendments are being discussed as are the common articles. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 103, which defines time for speakers, I have put the four minutes that I have proposed since the beginning for speakers, on the basis of these articles. Now if they are offended and so on, this will be judged in court and we will see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u752	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u753	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u754	We're taking you off with the ginger now one - one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u755	What's one-one? The gentleman asked me. I'm fine. I won't talk much. When I fall in love, I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u756	Article 101 rightly invoked it and Article 103 gives solutions. But you must tell us time - because that is how all the President-in-Offices are doing - for the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, and if party leaders come, and for them too. You will now do so before you put your proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u757	I have proposed for all those who have said, plus for Members of Parliament - two to three at most - to cover the time that is reasonable for the meeting to be concluded. I have proposed these as the chairperson of our meeting today. Therefore, in this respect, I propose to our meeting, if it accepts it at the same time, the question raised by Mr Venizelos as President-in-Office, although it can be considered to be exactly offset by my reply. So we move on to an unconstitutional request. Are you going to testify for it yourself, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u758	I'll say my own objection. Everyone has his arguments. Madam President, the amendment signed by the Minister of State and incorporated into the Ministry of Transport's bill raises a question of the unconstitutionality of the bill, which I am putting under Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I do not raise the issue of unconstitutionalism in order to be judged by the House definitively and irrevocably. This is a political control of constitutionality. I put this in order to record the debate in the Minutes, because these issues will be subject to judicial review by national courts and international judicial control at the Council of Europe and the European Union, as was the case with other countries which made strong media interventions. This has happened recently with Hungary and Poland, because not only constitutional principles are being violated, but also the principles and values of the European Union and the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Committee of Ministers, but also Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The amendment therefore suffers from two crystal clear and unconstitutional unconstitutional. The provision providing for the transfer of the competence for licensing competitions by the National Broadcasting Council to the relevant Minister is contrary to the letter and the spirit of Article 15(2) of the Constitution, which states that direct control by the State is exercised in electronic media through the National Broadcasting Council, and that control includes the prior authorisation. The argument that we do not have a National Broadcasting Council - opposition does not agree - we cannot choose new members of the National Broadcasting Council, is an unfounded and provocative argument. Because, as we have said, when the mandate of the members of the National Broadcasting Council ended by a law introduced by this government, the independent authority is a directly State institution, that is to say, provided for directly by the Constitution and lastingly. It shall not mean any gap in the existence of such instruments. Immediately and permanently means that there can be no void replacement, i.e. the term cannot be ended without the next ones being chosen. So, in this sense, the solution is not to transfer responsibility to the Minister, but either there will be a direct choice of new members with consensus and therefore, at the disposal of the government, or it will revive the members who have already ceased beforehand by the law passed by the House on the recommendation of Mr Pappa. The argument 'we killed the National Broadcasting Council, we are orphans, come and get its responsibilities' is an argument that is unfounded, unconstitutional and, of course, it will be examined in an easy and rapid manner, because all matters will be immediately brought to the Council of State. But there is also the other regulation, which says that the law determines the number of permits. Of course, the law determines the number of permits. However, it must comply with the procedure laid down for years and the original regulation of Mr Pappas for the public consultation and the reasoned opinion of the National Broadcasting Council had also been provided for. And the case-law of the Council of State has said that the legislator is also bound by these procedural requirements, and this is subject to judicial review. So you cannot transfer responsibility for the number of licences to the law without public consultation and without a reasoned opinion from the National Broadcasting Council. But again, you need reason for the law that is controlled. It cannot be said ‘I determine the number of licences based on the capacity of the advertising market and the price auction’. These are not constitutional criteria. Legislation has been saying that the technical diversity of the system must be exhausted for twenty years. You can't have nine national licenses on a proxy and four on a digital show. The law up to the time of today's government said that capacity-based channels are technically defined, 60% for national channels, 40% for regional and local. You cannot say now, when we have rapid developments and the frequencies are multiplying rapidly, that we are reducing this because if a station has four hundred staff, it must have a market share that does not exist today. One may want to organize his business differently or may not be profitable. You cannot say that the criterion is the advertising market and the possibility to draw a percentage, because this is contrary to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which in recent years has dealt with these issues in detail in the light of Italian, Turkish and Belgian cases. The case law is rich. This is an obvious, childish conflict with Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and, of course, with Article 14(9) of our Constitution, which says that the legislator may impose restrictions on concentration - you cannot have more than one licence - and not on the total number of licences. The legislator may intervene only on the guarantees of transparency and on the way in which the financial instruments are acquired. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Listen. This provision recommends a setback. It recommends a violation of the Constitution, the values of the European Union, the European Convention on Human Rights. It's a vain violation. There's nothing going to be done because when the new license seekers come and ask the questions "who you are", "whoever you are", "whoever you found the money", "what is the interest that induces you", they'll go up to the tree. And when they get up to the tree, the proverb says the rear. Together with other topics - for example, a favourite theme will be the 'ATTIC' - you will see how the combination of the issues of the financial system and the media will work and what will remind us of us. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You're not going anywhere. Just lead to a double political blackmail. You think you're blackmailing the old people and you promise the new ones in depth by blackmailing them. You can't handle these. You've promised a lot. You've spread too hard. Lead to an absolute dead end. You have no escape.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u759	Let's move on, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you something about the procedure. Normally, the opponent, Mr. Lappas, should speak. Mr. Fortsakis asked for the floor on behalf of the New Democracy and can take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u760	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u761	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u762	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but I would like to speak, so that there is no confusion, because we have been contacting the Chair with the official of this House. We have tabled a different proposal for unconstitutionalism in our own right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u763	But we don't have it, you know. If you tell us you'll testify, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u764	We testify to it and Mr Fortsakis will develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u765	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u766	On this point, because I asked whether the parliamentary representatives would speak, Rule 100(2) provides that the Heads of the Parties, that is to say the Parliamentary Representatives, will speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u767	Okay. We just didn't have the document. If you say you'll bring it to us, there's no problem. Mr. Fortsakis, you can develop the position of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u768	Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an amendment which is clearly unconstitutional. Where is this amendment? To understand it, it's enough for someone to read what the Constitution says. And a small child perceives the Greek of the Constitution and sees the Constitution as meaning that there is no different interpretation from that resulting from the mere reading. What does the Constitution say? It says that radio and television are being placed under the direct control of the state. It continues and says that this audit, as well as the sanctions which are understood to arise from the audit, will be entrusted with the exclusive competence of the broadcasting board, which is an independent authority. We're talking about exclusive competence. State control is therefore exercised only by the exclusive broadcasting board. Why does the Constitution do that? It does because the broadcasting board has a key position in our constitutional system. It is an institution which guarantees important constitutional freedoms, such as information, private confidentiality, personality and so on. It is an institution which exercises important supervision on the market for broadcasting and advertising. It is an institution that has a significant regulatory role - competitiveness and so on - and an institution to which the Constitution gives this role, because it wants to get rid of partyism, to which the state would fall if it did the same thing without going through an independent authority. And the Constitution even comes and adds that, "Control...". Because a question that we can ask ourselves is what the word 'control' means. Therefore, control says the Constitution expressly, expressly, expressis verbis, also includes granting prior authorisation. So there is no doubt about that. This amendment says exactly the opposite. It comes and sets out the number of licences, which, of course, can be laid down by law, but with respect to the criteria of the Constitution - and I will talk about this immediately afterwards - but at the same time it transfers to the Minister and to the competitive process and to the notice and to the details, but it also gives him the opportunity to transfer to third parties, to the secretariat, the regulation of various issues which normally belong to the broadcasting board. So we have a regulation here which is completely unconstitutional. And this unconstitutionality is very simple to see. This amendment comes in and gives four permits. I will not now go into the technical question if he has to give more or less. It speaks of the so-called 'high-definition'. We know, by reading the report, that more should be done anyway, because the report shows that capacity is greater. However, let us not now enter into mere divisions, mathematics, which everyone understands, reading the report. I'll focus on the criteria used by the Ministry to recommend the regulation legislator. What are the criteria of the Constitution? The Constitution has criteria which are clear. It says that an authorisation is granted on the basis of objective and equal terms for the transmission of information and news, as well as for speech and art products. It says that the licence is granted for the purpose and criterion of ensuring the quality of the programmes imposed by the social mission of radio and television. It also says that account is taken of the cultural development of the country, of respect for human value, of the protection of childhood and of youth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We therefore have criteria which are fully defined. And instead, what do we read in the explanatory statement? We read that licences have been calculated on the basis of four of the following objective criteria: Data to determine the economic viability of licensed enterprises and, in particular, the reported revenues from advertising, the annual operating costs, as well as the limitation of the available digital spectrum - and I do not go into the technical discussion how much the spectrum fits, because we all know that the spectrum fits multiplely from those licensed - and the proportion of the number of licences in the same category in European countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nor will I go into the debate to tell you that the permits recorded for foreign countries are only high-definition, and there are other licences that are not high-definition. I will only say that not only are these criteria contrary to which the Constitution explicitly defines, but they are also quite contrary to the basic principles of the Constitution, as well as to the basic principles of Union law. Where has the Minister heard the definition of what television will survive on the market, what will it be that he can have advertisements, or who will have the financial soundness to meet the demands of the viewers? These will be chosen by the viewers. That's pluralism. That's why it's the freedom of information. Otherwise, we have a whole concept which imposes on the listener the channel that we want to hear and do not let him choose the channel he wants to hear. If a channel does not offer him what he wants, the channel will suffer the consequences and close. I'm afraid the government reads the Constitution as well as we read it. This means, in short, that consciously moves in the direction it has chosen. And this proves if you think that the bill on collective management of copyright has already been passed. And there you will see that, unfortunately, the spirit of regulation - which is also adopted there - is to have a unique management body. Yes, sir - listen to this! - there is the possibility of a commissioner being able to manage these rights collectively, which means that no television or any station will be able to take the programme he wants, only what the Commissioner likes. That is to say, only four channels - to have what we want - but also the programme of channels can be checked by the Commissioner tomorrow. This situation is extremely worrying and I think that all active citizens must realise that the system of pluralism and freedom of information is in real danger. That is why I think it is urgent and important that this bill should be withdrawn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I want to tell you something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u769	Mr. Fortsakis, you will have to complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u770	Mr President, I'll be out in half a second. I would like to tell you something else - Mr Venizelos also said - about what happens in the case in which the Council cannot be formed. The government knows - the President of the New Democracy has said so many times too from the step of the central speaker in this Chamber - that if he agrees to repatriate to the broadcasting board his powers under the Constitution, we will consent to the establishment required by the Constitution. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] That was clear, very clear! He said it and repeats it. Don't pretend you don't hear it. Everyone understands that you take away from the council the powers provided for in the Constitution, while you know that the matter can be regulated differently! So that I don't get into another sentence now, as I get this possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u771	Do not go to another issue, Mr. Fortsaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u772	...the matter is regulated, and differently. It is urgent, Mr President, that the proposal by the Minister should be postponed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u773	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor on the SYRIZA side. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u774	Thank you, Mr President. Before looking at the two main pillars of Mr Venizelos' objection, I will say as a preamble that we have a history and a given one. For twenty-five years, do the stations not work to the limits of peculiarity, do you want legality? I prefer what the Council of State suggests, i.e. peculiarity. You gave fifteen or sixteen extensions with your own laws to channels, television stations. You never opened them up. You have already written the decisions of the Council of State, and you have last amended - if I remember correctly - Article 13. I don't remember well. Possibly Article 13 or Article 14. That's the one given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u775	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u776	I'm not saying that I'm starting with this bad thing that happened to justify some other evils. I'm just going to argue on this historical given. That's the one given. Secondly, with regard to the objection of unconstitutionalism, I shall begin with the second part you have said, Mr Venizelos, on the end of the term of office. You must know that the Council of State has a lot of decisions - I have one in my hands - and it does not tolerate an extension of the term of office of the independent authorities, in particular the PSE, where ad hoc legislated, only for a reasonable period of time. And that's very little. In no case shall it be equal to its term of office or a fraction of its term of office. I have the decision and I'll give it to you. That's the one given. So you're not right about that. We now go to the main, the first, which is the transfer of powers, which has so far been at the PSE, by the competent body, which is the House, to the relevant Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you something about what the nature of the item to be licensed is. Here there is a case-law agreement between the Council and a number of decisions of the theory, but also of the European Court of Human Rights. It's a public service. That's what this is about. So when we talk today about what we are going to do to the relevant Minister by decision of the House, we will give him the provision, so that he can act as a public service. Therefore, the authorisation to operate in accordance with Article 15(2) of the Constitution is the public service. That's the one. Secondly, what is the constitutional framework on which we must all rely to see whether the objection of anti-constitutionality or not is based? It's Article 15(2) of the Constitution. And, of course, we can't get away from what the CP has said so far. I will read only one decision, the one Mr. Dendias once said that I gave him the rope to hang us. The Council of State in multiple decisions says: "Legislations are granted by decision of the Minister of Press and Media". And you know very well that if this were beyond the law or it was within the limits of the Constitution, the Council of State would have had it checked on its own initiative as an anti-constitutional. I'll give that to you for the Minutes. He never said so. Therefore, the transfer of responsibility for the number of channels to the Minister does not suffer from any unconstitutionality. It's soaked with the bogeyman from the Council of State. Now let's go see something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u777	This strengthens the argument of unconstitutionalism. Concession as a public service to an independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u778	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u779	I'll tell you right away, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u780	Go on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u781	This regulation of Law No.4339, of the Law of ours, on the Minister's ability to determine the number of channels is essentially two previous legislation: Law No.3592/2007, which says that the Minister for Transport and Communications is required to determine the number, the starting price and the other, on the procedure. That's the first. And we have the oldest provision of Law 2328/1995. It's the first law on authorisations for SMEs. What's he saying? ‘With a decision of the Press and Media Minister...’. So, it's not the first one. And it's hypocritical today to say that we do things that are supposed to be outside the Constitution. Let's go down. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem here. Does anyone not disagree that the competitive process should be made by the National Broadcasting Council, or is it impossible to form it? The question arises: What would you say? Would you say that the constitutional check under Article 15(2) will never be carried out until two things have been put together? Or will the National Broadcasting Council - which, in the view of Mr Tragakis, you will never come to form - or we will wait for a revision of the Constitution to change the way the National Broadcasting Council is composed in accordance with Article 101 of the Constitution. Is that what you want? So, will constitutional control be dead? There is another solution, according to the - supposedly - North Korean inspiration. You can tell us tomorrow morning 'black' on all channels until the National Broadcasting Council is established. Is that what you're telling us? We say something else: we want the constitutional control of Article 15(2) to continue in a legal and constitutional way. So what should be done? What is the competent body that can do this today with the view of the complete weakness and without the prospect of setting up the National Broadcasting Council? We believe that the only body that can give such authority and ability is the House, because it provides all the institutional, political and parliamentary guarantees so that, by choosing the competent body, it can also be constitutionally mature and in line with the Constitution. I conclude by saying this: you know that Greece could be one of those countries that do not even have a National Broadcasting Council. For me, it's fine. Last time, we tabled a document from the European Audiovisual Observatory in the Minutes, which showed that seven countries, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark and Finland, which are much larger than Greece, do not have a constitutional provision for an independent authority that conducts the competitive process. The executive has it directly, the Minister responsible. And we are talking about these seven states.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u782	The Minister responsible or the executive authority?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u783	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Lappa. He'll talk after Mr. Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u784	This has been said not to violate any European acquis. Let us now come to the European acquis. Today, I have received a reply from Mr Schroedna from the Commission's Press and Communication Office on the question of whether our attempt to legislate is being violated by Union law. I would like to mention a part of Mr Schinna's reply: 'In the Memorandum the Greek Government undertakes to open an international competition...' - so it is also a Memorandum of Understanding, which you voted for and it is hypocritical today to deny - '... to acquire television licences and also to use revenue for budgetary purposes. However, it is for the Member States to harmonise and institutionalise the procedures for the granting of television licences, because there is no obligation for European harmonisation.’ That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u785	In the front, what does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u786	Secondly, ten days ago in a question by your MEP, Mr Spirakis, you forced the European official, Mr Etinger, to give an answer if in fact this attempt we made to entrust the Minister is in breach of Union law. Etinger's decision is complicated. It was given to EurActiv. There's no obligation. It is right to do what the Greek state does and does not violate multiplely or unilaterally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u787	Finish, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u788	I shall conclude, Mr President. I shall give a table, Mr President, on the number of permits that all Member States have. It's general content. I just quote: Austria four, Bulgaria two,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u789	Well, that's what you can talk about later in the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u790	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, if we all wanted to obey the Constitution, all the political forces, we should honour a basic obligation: to understand where it comes from and what our obligations are. When the Civic Opposition comes to the PSE for three times, even though it had previously promised that it would propose specific names - the names broke, no one was in SYRIZA except one - and it does not come to the establishment of the constitutional body, who is responsible, Mr President, for this situation? And you know what society says? Do something with the channels at last. It also has an obligation on the government to satisfy both the legitimate popular feeling and, above all, to identify the responsibilities of counter-population and PASOK which do not come to obligations arising from the Constitution. And that's a huge responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u791	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-two students and students as well as seven educational sessions from the 8th Artas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u792	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not pleasant for me that I have risen to the third time in the same day to support objections of non-constitutionality of proposed legislation to the National Representation by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, because it is indicative - I said this before - of the beginning of an arbitrary prestige, which seems to be an enchanting majority in the first year, but I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that it introduces you into dangerous shame. And if I may make a personal point, I do not think that is - at least on delivery - the institutional response of the Left to democratic dialogue. I now come to this particular issue, which we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is clearly unconstitutional. It will be very interesting to see it in the future, because it will be taught in the Constitutional Law of Legal Schools as an exercise for students to write in what provisions of the current constitution it is against. So to facilitate the future of these students, you will allow me to list you the provisions that this amendment is against the current Constitution of the Hellenic Republic. First of all, it violates Article 74(5), paragraphs 3 and 4, because it is introduced in due course and is manifestly irrelevant to the agreement between Greece and Belarus. Secondly - much more importantly - it violates Article 15(2) of the Constitution, because it entrusts the government, through the parliamentary majority - with using you as the institutions - to regulate matters that really belong to the National Broadcasting Council. Mr President, by the way, I am interrupting here, that is not what you said, Mr President, but I will reply to that - in the case-law of the Council of State. I reintroduce the 2010 plenary ruling, which you inadvertently filed last time as a prejudicial, reinforcementist, that is, your evenings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u793	She's the one I read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u794	It goes on to say that the interpretation, ladies and gentlemen, of the current constitution: 'Broadcasting and television fall under the direct control of the state. Control and enforcement of administrative sanctions fall within the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council, which is an Independent Authority, as laid down by law. The direct control also takes the form of the prior authorisation scheme.' The plenary does not leave the slightest point of interpretation as to what is true. Let's go down. The amendment infringes Article 26(1) and (2) of the Constitution, namely the principle of discrimination of powers, because it confers on you, in the parliamentary majority, a competence of the State exercised by an independent authority. It violates Article 4(1) of the Constitution and Article 20 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which guarantees the principle of equality, because despite the lack of technical restrictions you impose restrictions. It infringes Article 5(1) of the Constitution and Article 16 of the same Charter of Business Freedom, because it limits, for no reason, the exercise of a possible business activity. It affects freedom of expression and information, i.e. Article 5a of the current constitution. It affects the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union - Article 11 - on freedom of expression and affects and violates Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I must tell you that in my 12-year parliamentary presence we have never faced an amendment, which in itself affects more articles of the Constitution and is a presumption and proof of complete unconstitutionality. However, for yours, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the obvious unconstitutionalism, I would also like to comment on something that my colleague mentioned about the European acquis. Not that this would create doubt, because the Greek Constitution stands by itself. And on this article - Article 15(2) - there is no difference in general Acquis, which exists in the European Union, but it has been here, in your eyes, a medium-term reality as supposedly European practice, the perception that in the advanced European states through the Ministers and during the arbitrary crisis of the ministers, television licences are granted. This is, of course, contrary to your common sense, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you - without inconvenience - to report to you a large number of countries such as Austria, France, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and even Italy with the Berlusconi acquis, with the possible exception of Luxembourg - I would add to these countries both Germany and Spain and Sweden - which have principles which, of course, belong to the wider state - do not make a mistake in this, of course in the wider state - but not in the relevant Minister. Because it is the state and the independent authority. Furthermore, I would like to tell you this: with what you will vote on, if you vote on it this evening, you will make Greece a neighbouring country with only one in the European Union, Poland, which has already been referred to for violations of human rights, the Black Sheep has already become the committee's 'black sheep'. And I think the very least the Greek Republic, ladies and gentlemen, needs in the crisis, is to make it also typing for the violation of human rights and freedom of expression! And in any case, I would like to say this: there is a book, you can find it, which refers to the Left of France. He refers to the entire history of the Left in France from Robespierre and Dadon to Olad today. I have to say to you that although many times the French Left - which is the strongest left traditionally in Europe - has fallen into dismissals, nothing can be equated to what you have been doing in this Chamber for the last three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u795	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. You have five minutes, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u796	Mr President, I do not want to dynamise the debate, but to say that I am very happy, but also very concerned, to see Mr Kotzias in the positions of the ministers, who firstly refuses - that is the elsson - to come and answer the key questions of the Golden Dawn. The major thing, however, is that today, when we have these cases with Greek-Turkish, NOTAM, instead of being at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs that at the moment should have an organisation of work to defend our national rights and our Greek Aegean, Mr Kotzias is coming to participate in the debate on the canals. I listened very carefully to the previous ones. It started the whole story of the debate on constitutionality, but without actually putting it into practice - Mr Venizelos did not raise the issue of constitutionality - saying, "I raise the issue for the Minutes, for history, because today's debate will also be conducted in Greek courts and in international courts", as he said - and I would say - scientific and constitutionalist. Mr. Venizelos is an excellent user of the Greek language, an excellent academic I would say, but politically he has very short memory or I would say better, he has a selective memory. May I remind you that Mr Venizelos is - if I am not mistaken - the instigator of the so-called law - which is not law, is a constitutional provision - on the responsibility of Ministers? How are you gonna...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u797	That's the '44 law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u798	The law. The order of constitution, Mr. Venizelo...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u799	The layout...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u800	Mr. Venizelo, leave me alone and we'll talk about it. The order of the Constitution. I don't want to blame you or anything, but you could, with your science, have finished this scandal of the iniquity of the ministers once and for all. So, in the Greek political scene, we will have Mr. Papantoniou's major scandal with the fine of the imperfect or - the Antigone of the post-multiple - Mr. Chohatzopoulos and the wrongly persecuted - and I express my sympathy to the woman who is also ill - his wife? So that's where the clearance is? Is that the cleansing you want to go on with? And do you take leftage lessons from some supposed right-wing? Now, didn't Mr. Dendias tell you? And what leftover after all? Looks like the boat's on the way to the right now. In any case, I heard Mr Venizelos and then Mr Fortsakis, whom I appreciate and have the social 'good morning' and 'good evening', said by the former President of Parliament and the Head of the New Democracy. Isn't that right? Receive students' garbage and voices with your involvement - I don't know if you want it or not - with the political things. In the end, will you go home and say 'Where did I get involved?' Why are you in trouble, Mr. Fortsaki? Samaras got you in trouble. Really, where's Mr. Samaras? Is Mr. Samaras paid for his participation in the Greek Parliament? He's not in committees, he's not coming. Does the Greek people pay Mr. Samaras? Why? I never see him here. In any case, Mr Samaras deals with what he knows to do. He's got you next door...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u801	Do you miss her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u802	I miss him, to tell him. When he came by once, I say to him: "Don't listen to it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u803	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u804	...and that's why you and Samaras don't come by."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u805	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u806	You're a known provocator, Stamatis, you did it in the morning. Don't cut my word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u807	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u808	We know who you are, we know what you are, we know what you are. Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u809	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u810	Please, too! Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u811	Missing characterizations and personal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u812	And sue me and sue me. The wet in the rain isn't afraid of her...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u813	Mr. Pappa! Do not write anything in the Minutes, please, of all that is being said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u814	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u815	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u816	Go on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u817	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u818	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u819	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u820	Mr Fortsakis, you said something right at the edge of your speech. You said to the government 'we are studying the Constitution as well as we believe you are studying it'. Isn't that what you said? Am I wrong? "We are studying the Constitution as well as you are studying it."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u821	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u822	Well, you said something wrong. They know what they're doing, because they do exactly what you do. I remember SYRIZA, Mr Lafazanis here as Parliamentary Representative, who was shouting at the late and saying, 'Date in time!' to you as a government. You weren't in the House then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now what's going on? Is the amendment not too late? Only for that, Mr Fortsakis, Mr Venizelos and the others, should we speak. A late amendment cannot be accepted. The debate must be held at a high level, speaking as many Members as possible. It is a major issue. To close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - although others have spoken much more - I would like to say that we will not be invited either four channels or fourteen. Mr. Teddy, we will be the disconstitutions of this synagogue of yours. We're not playing with your own packages and your own interests. We are on the side of the tested Greek people. We are ultimately on the side of all those who are the guarantors of the Constitution, on the basis of Article 120. Yes, sir, I will correct you, Mr. Fortsaki. What does active citizens mean? So, there are inactive civilians? Aren't all citizens equal? Aren't they all civilians? Do we separate citizens into accusations? The active and the inactive? Wrong expression of the train, somewhere you read it and carry it. I say, therefore, that we are on the side of the people, who are the guarantor of the Constitution, on the basis of Article 120. A good start is tomorrow. We call on other social classes to rise. The only solution is race, race, race. Liberty's not happy. He's conquered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u823	We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u824	Gentlemen of the government, twice a week you bring us to the House or its institutions on this matter. Someone who's following our work will think that we're the ones from morning to night here talking about the channels. Twice a week, you bring us here to the House, having created marginal blockages on the broadcasting board and ultimately what you want to do, which is the resolution, supposedly, of the television landscape. That's not what's going on. The opposite is what you are seeking and that is what you have achieved so far. Just don't do anything. Don't do anything at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you're out of order. You have escaped politically, opening up so many issues for the country, dramatic issues, such as immigration - refugee, but you have escaped from opening up issues that create blockages, while at the same time violating the Constitution. On February 8, 2015, the Prime Minister told us that you were every word of the Constitution. You are every word of the Constitution. And it turns out after a year that you are the every word of a Stalinist deputy. That's what you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u825	Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u826	And I now have a set of provisions here. A set of provisions that you are violating in a clear way. Article 15(2) of the Constitution for the Radiotelevision Council and Article 101a for the independent constitutionally-established principles, the relevant provisions of the Charter of Human Rights and the Convention on Human Rights. And we have issues relating to competition and the economy and Article 4 of the Constitution and Article 5 of the Constitution and the competition-related Directive 21 of 2002 and the latest EU Law Directive, 13/2010 on the possibility of technologies being given and which you are obliged as Government to use for the sake of information. This is the netting of the provisions that in a way that you have in some way violated. What are we telling you? What separates us? Why, Mr President, so much noise and so much tension? We are telling you that in the constitutional order, this Parliament determines the legality, the conditions and the definition of it once again in October. We may disagree with some of them, but in any case the majority of them accepted them and anyone who objects to them, may appeal to the European or Greek courts or to any other body. This legality is respected by the Greek state, by controlling it, not by its central state - you are confusing them here - but as Article 15(2) and Article 101A of the Constitution defines with the Independent Authority of the National Broadcasting Council. And we are telling you - you will propose - to transfer the power to define the number of licences, now that technology allows everything, at the National Broadcasting Council, and from there, as we did in the vote to increase the number of members of the National Broadcasting Council, so that there is a final synthetic proposal which reflects the availability of many, this institution, this independent authority, will check compliance with the law, licences will be granted and, Mr President, if legality ceases to be respected in the future. This is our position, and that separates us. Why do you want to? You want to give the number of licences - now by the majority of the House - you to make the invitation, you to issue the licences and, in the end, to the Minister, you to say the news. But that's how the violation of the Constitution is so obvious, it's asking us questions about exactly what you have in mind. Are there any promises you have made and you must fulfill? Because the composition of the broadcasting board is proposed by the President of the House. You don't trust that he can do it? So what you have promised, and what you have promised, is, on the other hand, that you would like to give arguments to your parliamentary group and to your members who are disappointed by what is happening - with taxation, agricultural, insurance - and who do not have a person in their own regions or in the public debate? Would you like to have elections at the end of these developments? Whatever you want, one is given, ladies and gentlemen. As has been said in many respects, this arrangement will have involved, Mr Minister, the President of the Republic, who certainly understands what you have done here in relation to the Constitution and will be invited to sign it in order to do so. You also create problems with the regulator of the community. And you need to think about this very well, and you need to think about it very well. But at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that this regulation will be insulted outside Greece and in Greek justice. And judicial involvement will take years to end. That's impossible for a legal counsel not to have told you. Evidently, then, you want this involvement. You want this uncertainty, one year now, and who knows for how many more years. Because imagining that you'll be a power - that you won't - you want a place in a hostage and yourself to play games. Minister, what you have brought here today in the House is unconstitutional. We, Mr Venizelos and other colleagues have raised the objection. The parties are placed, the parliamentary groups are placed. We have a positive 'in favour' of the proposal that Parliament accepts the unconstitutionality of this arrangement, which, Mr Minister, if it were to be seen by a specialist on the issues, which would not have been in the Chamber to take into account our conflicts, our controversy, would have told you that they are so thick the hands of the one who took the pencil to write it, who ultimately did not manage to make any unconstitutional regulation, but who did not have an anti-constitutional motto. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u827	We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasio Pafili for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u828	Before being placed, because Mr Loverdos has recently opened the tape of the Stalinist, as he said, 'parallel' and all the rest, as the urban constitution defends, this says in Article 22: 'Work is a right and is protected by the state, which ensures that the employment conditions of all citizens and the moral and material elevation of the working rural and urban population are created'. Mr. Loverdo, you and the governments you served, what did you do? One and a half million unemployed. What did you ensure? What are you talking about? The Stalinist, as you say, a constitution in the first article said that man is forbidden. Do you agree or disagree? What's more progressive? Because you're talking and you've taken the candy now. The constitution that you blame said that all citizens - they were one of the first decrees of the October Revolution - are entitled free of charge to health, education, culture and so on, and were implemented in those circumstances and in that situation. So you and everyone else, for this Article 22, what do you have to say to the Greek people and youth when you defend this system? Do you secure the job? Do you guarantee a decent life? So, what are you doing to ensure and talk about the Constitution and the Constitution? Secondly, Article 15 - I address everyone: what does Article 15 say? Mr. Fortsakis said it too. ‘The direct control of the State, etc. etc. is aimed at the objective of objective and equal conditions for the transmission of information and news, as well as of products of speech and art, ensuring the quality of the programmes imposed by the social mission of radio and television and the cultural development of the country, as well as respect for human value and the protection of childhood and youth." So all the years you've been running, the previous ones, and you're the next ones, that was done by radio and television. Isn't that right? Isn't that what all the channels did? Objective information, quality programmes. And the state media. That's what they did, isn't it? And you're talking now and making segregation? Tell us, Mr Fortsakis, when you were in the government, that is how the channels were working - I say - on the basis of these principles? It's hypocrisy! The principle is one: firstly, defending the dominant ideology, namely the system itself, capitalism, the inhuman and barbaric, which today leads mankind to hell. In all countries. And you next guys say you'll improve him, make him transparent now. I mean, horror for the world. Secondly, business interests. Who are the intertwiners you're talking about here and you're not calling it? Who's got the media? Who do they dominate? Aren't they the ones with the banks? Aren't the shipowners? Aren't the industrials? Aren't they the big traders? It is not the oligarchy, which does many things and ideologically - it defends the barbarity of its sovereignty, because that is, it is barbaricity, and from this word there is no worse to say it - and what else does it? It directs to the extent that it can both news and everything and sells cultural waste. What protection? Don't we watch TV all these years? And what does the government come and say now? That he's gonna change it. What will you change, Mr. Pappa? So what? Suddenly, will all entrepreneurs switch line and defend popular interests? Or theirs? They will begin to defend another fair social system or try with hands and feet, whoever comes, to defend the dominant ideology, to direct the people, to suck their heads from morning to night, from all sectors - from news to cultural to advertising. To water him, if possible, from an embryo when he is, not since he starts to watch TV and the media. Will you change that? Oh, no. You're just going to give it to someone else. So, is this scenery going to change? So this debate, in our view, is hypocritical to the Greek people. If the people themselves do not have the power in their own hands, if the people themselves do not control the media, if they are not social property, if they do not move on the basis of people's needs, there will be no objective television. We are struggling through the state, at least, where there is an intervention, with a better landscape, but unfortunately the same situation continues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u829	Thank you, Mr Pafile, and the consistency in time. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u830	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, unfortunately, we are confirmed. We said at the beginning of the meeting that it is certain that the New Democracy colleagues and the PASOK - DIMAR - will have an issue of unconstitutionality. And they both put it, as they had, in the debate at the end of October. With the same objections, as they did in the morning, and as they are trying, in every way, to stop the process of democratisation in the area of television frequencies. We understand what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u831	Let's guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u832	You want in every way to create a coma. No, it's not hard. Indeed, it is very easy to guess what you want to do. Try in every way not to be a competition. Mr. Vorides said so, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Loverdos. You don't want to be a competition. You have said this in the national Parliament. But, Mr President, I would like to say that we have been amazed at Mr Teddy's statement, but also Mr Loverdos, who predicted that there would be an appeal to the Council of State and the supreme bodies of justice, for this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u833	What's that? Is that a guess?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u834	And I wonder, that's where you've been? Do you know who's going to make the appeal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u835	No, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u836	Do you know which one of those people you left without permission to perpetuate twenty-five years? Is it, Mr President, too? We're asking ourselves: Is that how far your catapult has arrived?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u837	You know who you're going to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u838	Do you know what economic interest will be insulting the law of the government? All of whom do you know in this country? So much intertwined is this deep state? It makes us a terrible impression, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u839	Our political analysis, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u840	We, of course, know what the main constitutional issue we are discussing today is that for twenty-five years the two-party governments have insisted and chose not to apply Article 15(2) of the Constitution, because all their actions, even this fuss today, are in favour of this purpose, to serve a vicious system of political, economic and communication dependency. That's what you've done and that's what you're doing today. Because that does not only affect information, we must be clear, it affects our education, it affects culture, it affects the culture of our people, the customs of our people, the image of our country abroad. And all this can be supported by television. Of course, they have not only stopped in licensing, to tell the truth, but they have threw the black into the ERT, they gave the monopoly to private individuals, to DIGEA, all that is far beyond unconstitutionalism. For us, however, the Constitution is above all, because it is the democracy of our country. We must, of course, announce something that you are trying to hide, as if we had a short memory, that since 1997 there has been a Council decision - in which you will, of course, resort - which you have not implemented, which has been a competition and licences granted. Why now are you going to appeal to the HR? And why do you not respect the 1997 Council decision? We're wondering: is that it? As it suits us? A democracies? You are serving this democracy, ladies and gentlemen. We all have the same rights in this Chamber, but we should be telling the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u841	Ice, not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u842	Of course, what you do mind is that the October Act practically fortified both Article 15 and the functioning of the independent authority. What is the main issue of the constitutionality we need to discuss today? Very practically, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, in particular, and the rest of the Opposition, operates unconstitutionally, because in three conferences of the Presidents of the Parliament, it proposes no one to set up the National Broadcasting Council. It is your constitutional obligation, not your duty, to contribute, if possible unanimously, to the creation of the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u843	No, that's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u844	But not just are you violating Article 101a of the Constitution by not forming the principle, but at the same time insist that Article 15(2) should not apply. So who works anti-constitutional?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u845	She assumes that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u846	The opposition, which so far has been trying to revert two articles of the Constitution, or are we saying that, in spite of all your efforts, we will not do you a favor? Article 15(2) of the Constitution will be applied and a competition will be held and open to society, and television licences and revenue will also be passed on, because it is an anti-democratic diversion of your own operation up to now and it is the government's responsibility to respect democracy in our country. We are opting for the amendment to implement the Constitution. So without entering into substance, Mr President, which, of course, has not been avoided by the fellow Members, we are against the objections and the Democratic Reformation and the New Democracy, because we are very simply serving the Constitution and not the party of interacting, corruption and the iniquity that you have set up and are still serving today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u847	We proceed with Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami for five minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u848	Thank you, Mr President. The government is bringing an amendment in time and therefore only unconstitutional because of that reason. But it is an amendment which is, in essence, unconstitutional. I come to Article 15(2). I will not read them again, I shall refer very quickly. In direct control of the state, radio and television. Control and enforcement of administrative sanctions fall within the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council. Here, the crucial question, the crucial concept, is the concept of the state. The only way one can argue that licensing is not an exclusive competence of the PSE is to assume that the PSE does not belong to the concept of a'state'. Article 15(2) also defines a first form of control and sanctions, which is the exclusive competence of the PSE, and a second form of control, the authorisation that may be exercised by the State. However, it is undeniable in the legal theory that all independent authorities are part of the state and exercise public authority. Or, with another wording and a different theory, the Independent Authorities belong to the legal person of the state. No independent authority shall have its own legal personality. They're state organs. And therefore, it cannot be accepted that there are two forms of control. One is the form of control, and it is the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council. But why? Why does the constitutional legislature define the PSE as an independent authority and give this exclusiveity? For two reasons. Because the political system either has the weakness or is intertwined and cannot properly apply control over the media, because the media is, in fact, the fourth power. It is therefore essential that this check be carried out through the National Broadcasting Council. This provision is incomplete, even though Mr Famelos would like to restrict to his statusal conception and the right to appeals and to the courts. Come and pass provisions, forbid appeals to some people. Anyone who has channels, who has banks, who is an entrepreneur does not have the opportunity to appeal to justice. That's what he told us here. Mr Famellos stood up to Parliament and told us that there should be no right for channel owners to appeal. And that is the concept of democracy that Mr Famelos and SYRIZA have. The provision is incomplete because it will be insulted. But he's not just paralyzed. The government knows that, and he wants this chainsickness too. We do not want the government to grant the permits, because then the people who took the permits will salute them and say 'We are now no longer under the government and under the hostage of the government'. And those who lose them will fight them in any way they can. So he wants hostages for the owners and the channels the government for as long as it can. That is why he brings this kind of provision, which he knows will not be implemented. It's more obvious. In the explanatory statement, we have an unprecedented...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u849	Psycharis is listening. Give me some tests, you're going through them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u850	Of course, you can hear them. It hurts. It's okay. It hurts. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Your voices are an honor to me. They're hurting you. The explanatory statement says the unprecedented: because of developments in technology - listen, Greek people! - the channels must be reduced. Because of developments, where we go best technology, we'll reduce the channels from eight to four. If this is not a hunger for the Greek Parliament and through Parliament and the Greek people, then what is it? Pluralism is served by the reduction of channels. I told you before, when the matter was discussed in a previous bill. You have no reason to define the number of channels. No reason! They will be determined by the rules you have put in. It's a question of interacting. You are in favour of interlocutory, defining the number of channels. You must put licensing rules, funding rules, rules for their balance sheets and they are welcome. But, as the media professor, who belongs to SYRIZA, proposed by SYRIZA for the National Broadcasting Council, Mr.Polis, has written and said in his interviews: "He does not put this bill any brakes on the complex, no brakes on the transaction and actually gives superpowers" - are his words - "the Minister". What is your excuse - and with this I will close - to bring these amendments, which are clearly unconstitutional? Your excuse is that there was no consensus on the National Broadcasting Council. All you had to do is take responsibility from the Minister and take it to the National Broadcasting Council. The next day, we would have a composition of the national council. You did not, however, want to know, although we had said so, but other representatives, within the Conference of Presidents. You didn't, because you want to make an anti-constitutional provision. I shall therefore conclude by saying that this provision is a sign of the status quo you are dealing with. It is clear that in your mind there is a Bolshevik concept that you must understand the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u851	Bresneev's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u852	But you're only bolsheviks in your mind. In fact, you're ensembles and that's why, not in three months' time, with the boot that you're snatching the constitution of this boot, the Greek people will give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u853	You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u854	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for five minutes. And please, be a little quiet in the mountains.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u855	Thank you, Mr President. I couldn't imagine when I was reading a great book of Ignasio Ramonet, the "Geopolitan chaos", many years ago, when I was reading a great book of "Geopolitan chaos", that for all and for many years fourth power, which controls real power, would be the first and far the first. He's writing about the multimedia. It was many years ago and we in Greece at least felt it on our side. Like also, I couldn't imagine an argument I heard from the JRC, but I don't know why only the JRC says it. OXFAM is an NGO that in its polls is always accurate. He says sixty-two people today, tycoons, have assets as much as three and a half billion poorer on the planet. What does all this have to do with it? I would like to make a small retreat to the past, when the only parliamentarian who opposed the proposal of Constantine Mitsotakis to be granted permissions in the way they were given was Kostis Stefanopoulos. Nobody mentions it. He then disappeared from politics for those who remember and became President of the Republic later. However, active policy has disappeared. We always thought that power was the fourth, we all loved it. We remember Corka's "ELDRERA", we remember Vlao, we remember all those publishers who did no other work, they did only this work and they truly controlled power, with differences between them, but they controlled power. I would like to remind you of a few facts and I will start on the stock market. Therefore, instead of enlightening the Greek citizen not to fall on the cliff that the growth of the stock market means economic soundness of the country, they literally lured people to sell land, stop their jobs, and they themselves are in listed companies and earn intact amounts. I want to remind you of a second event. I'm going a little later, when we watched, strangely, six companies get 80% of public works and give them some scorching.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u856	So let's turn it off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u857	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u858	You don't have intensified, but you have ERTs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u859	We're talking to another octave, Mrs. Vultisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u860	Close the channels after they've done all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u861	So someone would have waited for a check then. What happened, guys, why six companies? Nothing in the papers, in the channels. If someone looks into it, they'll see that inside these companies were some people who had channels at the same time as companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u862	He had to be in jail then. Put them in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u863	We should go to a third event. It is the Olympic Games that are being held and we see in about five that all works are done directly and from four billion scheduled, they have even reached forty billion more. Look closely at which people took advantage of this party then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u864	Sure. They're your friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u865	Let's take a fourth example. We saw an RURAL BANK operating in a strange way. I would expect the fourth power to criticize. See what's going on, how, what? Illegal amendments were tabled here at night, which gave immunity to the infidelity of bankers who made loans without any guarantee. I don't want to remind you in detail, I have them. Let's go to the big armament party. Already condomed Liakunakos with a specific editor pushed for F-16. It wasn't just Liaconakos with the publisher. There were a lot of others. Where were the media back then? Where was the press?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u866	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u867	What does this have to do with the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u868	I would also like to remind you of something else, because we are a small country and we know each other. What news did the Greek citizen play - please excuse me the popular expression - first track table and when did the Greek citizen learn, I say, that Samara's right hand, Mr Papastavros - I wish him were acquitted - went and paid 3,300,000? It was eighth news or not at all. When did the Greek citizen learn that the "Panusada" which played for a month showed nothing? Examples are not one, it is a thousand one. We've lived through a harsh mediator dictatorship. I'm sorry about the expression, but that's the truth. It wasn't tax evasion, it wasn't corruption and complication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u869	Let's have a day for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u870	It was the beastly almighty that no one ever elected them. Did we ever hear that five alleged bankers will be tried in a very short time? Is he playing on a channel? Did we hear that the SIEMENS trial will come after eight years? Did we hear that people who have mistreated Greeks in the "TACHTEROMIC TREATY" are being referred at the moment? Never! And we won't know. I would also like to remind you that Costas Karamanlis has been dismantled from this situation, who didn't come to vote the other day, may be semantic, may be accidental...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u871	It's probably random.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u872	So Costas Karamanlis was the man who was afflicted as anyone else. With George Papandreou, we may have disagreements. When he let the three canals wait an hour, he was stubborn. The ring was given elsewhere. I would also like to remind you that one of the rulers at that time and an editor had put a bet on Constantine Mitsotakis and succeeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u873	The unconstitutionalism to tell us where it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u874	I need two minutes if you're kind. I did not speak at all today as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u875	Yeah, but the overrun is for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u876	What two minutes? He was in five minutes and he went seven!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u877	It's disgraceful and embarrassing - and I'm talking about all of us, I'm putting myself in - elected by the Greek citizen to regulate our homes with our disagreements. It is not bad - the Republic has this majesty - to be able to coexist with arguments. But not with characterizations. I don't accept to describe it and you'll never listen to me. Bring in arguments. A few people do it in New Democracy and other parties. We heard about lies, glossers, tombstones. Objections? I don't want to say any more. It made me a terrible impression of a cry of agony by Vyron Polydora. You all know how honest that politician was. He may have been a conservative politician, but no one ever said anything about Byron. I want to remind you how Alekos Papadopoulos has been cleansed. I told you about Kostis Stefanopoulos. Whoever with alpha or beta opposed the beastly media's almighty, they extinguished him and wiped him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u878	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u879	I keep hearing this: Modern technology says it justifies two hundred or four hundred permits. Is it a matter of buying or a matter of democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u880	Oh, good, turn it off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u881	I ask: is it a matter of buying or a matter of democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u882	If they're out of the Republic, close them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u883	Allow me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u884	Continue and close, please, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u885	Finally, I want to say this: It's self-evident...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u886	If we don't like the news, we shut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u887	It is self-evident, it is the least that a government could do and this one does: to put an end to the atrocious canalism of a family or two and a few bankers who had made a ball and had installed sectoral.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u888	How's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u889	Stefanos Jumakas, your own man, in Parliament, told sectoral canalarchs! It's disgraceful and embarrassing not to escape once!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u890	What's this? In Turkey they do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u891	I would like to say a 'bravo' to this government, which, even in this way, - and I think it can be improved - is now doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u892	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u893	I believe and conclude with this that at least the 808 million they owe, the 600 or 700 million that we lost from DIGEA, 2% and 20% will definitely pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u894	The parliamentary representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Georgios and Mr Dimitrios Karras, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u895	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papachristopoulos will allow me, in all kinds of sympathy, to comment on him. He talked about six technical companies that were haunting the public works and enriched to the detriment of the Greek people. So there comes a proposal from the government and tells us to do four channels, because these four channels will be sustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u896	And they'll say good news.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u897	However, do these four channels create a oligopoly and come after some time to say that, like technical companies - in the decades of wealth, prosperity, waste - they took all the money of the Greek state, will they also take the channels in other ways? I give up this argument, because we have spoken very much in recent days and, in particular, today is the third time I have been talking about constitutionality or not in this Chamber. I must say this that I regret as a new Member. I am sorry, because there is a question of constitutionality. The question was raised earlier, whether it is a constitutional way of legislating on legislative acts, and I have put the arguments on our side. I supported unconstitutionalism, went ahead with this. A few hours ago, a couple of hours ago, Mr President, I referred to the procedure for an analysis of this bill and proposed that all of this be recorded, I will not be tiring with repetition - that there should be a report from the Scientific Committee of Parliament, and that, anyway, we see what these provisions are hiding and that it should be put into public consultation, since it is subject to an amendment to a law, of Law No.4339, which had been put into public consultation. The arguments for Article 15 are not to be mentioned, Mr President. They're known in the Chamber. We have come to the conclusion that the concept of the authority of the PSE also includes the number, because it is the precedent of the authorisation. I have said that at the Conference of Presidents, I think this issue has been exhausted and it has become the property of the whole Chamber what each side supports. I shall say something else, however, on which Mr Loverdes gave me the opportunity to speak about the possibility of legal proceedings. I have said this morning that I have a legal distortion in my mind, which unfortunately I cannot abandon and torment it in my mind. Is the number four or six or five to be legislated by the government and will it be a matter which is under judicial review or is it a technical crisis of the administration, which puts the number in order to escape any judicial review? This is a delicate point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. But I will give my opinion on this point. It is the Government's law of four or six. The number is questioned on the occasion of the adoption of a regulatory act - there are many who will have a legitimate interest in bringing legal action against such acts - or an individual on the occasion of a tender that was excluded from the tender and will say 'I have been blocked, to blow up the contest in the air'. We can hear that frequencies are public good. We hear that they serve the public interest. And here is the 'button' of history that will stifle the country in the future, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Why am I saying that? Because he'll be questioned. It's for granted. I speak with experience personally. In competition, there will also be legal proceedings not only in the internal legal system but also throughout Europe. What will arise there in my view and in the perversion that I have mentioned, Mr President? It's going to be a matter. The number of cases will be checked. The law will be checked. What for? The issue will be raised if the public interest is violated by the closed number, numerus clausus, in relation to pluralism, in relation to the information to be provided constitutionally to the Greek people and we will start after some years the same violin. Why am I saying that? The Court will therefore be called upon to state whether that number is justified, serves the public interest or should have been different. Well, that is an additional unconstitutionality which, in our view, leads us to vote and accept the position once again of unconstitutionalism. And I conclude, Mr President, because today I wanted it to be brief...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u898	It's technical, it's not political.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u899	It is also a substantial judgment, Mr Athanasios, because it is evading the statement. We'll go to the premise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u900	I agree. I agree, because pluralism is limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u901	I'm done saying that. So today we are discussing the constitutional or non-formal dimension. Will we find a solution? I tell you that we will not find a solution, Mr President. I shall therefore reintroduce the proposal that I had already put forward. I know that the Congress will vote against the proposals and will start the debate, which will be held here and which will trouble us many hours with the arguments on both sides. I repeat the proposal: give Mr Butsis and you and the government a way out. Get us a report. Not Florence's report. That's not a report. I have said my opinion, I have commented on it. It is a report of non-technical ideas. Bring us a scientific report to listen. I do not want to give an opinion in this Chamber. So listen to what limits the government can legislate in constitutional terms and to what extent. From there on, we can enter the real debate by consulting, judge the law, but not Mr.4339. He was judged. Judging who? These provisions are introduced, whether or not they are in line with the original basic legislation, because they will also be an additional issue there. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u902	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u903	Ladies and gentlemen, today the spectacle of the National Representation was not what we would like to see. The complaints we heard about the alleged unconstitutionality remind the efforts of the desperate lawyers who have to deal with a lost case, who object not because they hope that something will win, but simply to delay the unavoidable verdict for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u904	You're a majority. Why do you say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u905	I understand the political question. It is obvious that the verdict of the Greek people is given. There can be no forgiveness for so many decades of lawlessness that have raised the argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u906	Tomorrow you will see the verdict.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u907	But I would expect colleagues whose science I respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u908	But aren't you ashamed? Now you've got the insurance policy and you're coming for it? But you're not okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u909	I would expect more convincing legal arguments from colleagues whose science I respect. What does Article 15(2) of the Constitution say? His grammar interpretation is enough. It begins with the announcement that radio and television fall under the direct control of the state. It then distinguishes how this direct check is carried out. The next paragraph says: ‘The control and enforcement of administrative sanctions are the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council’. So the core of the exclusive competences of the National Broadcasting Council is the control and enforcement of administrative sanctions. It continues: ‘The direct control of the State, which takes the form of the prior authorisation regime, is aimed at objective and equal conditions for the transmission of information and news’. So the direct control of the State is not exhausted in the exclusive competences of the National Broadcasting Council, which are intended to impose administrative sanctions. That's not what I'm saying. When I referred to the inability to support the arguments, I heard the general reliance on the case-law of the Council of State. But I will speak to you about specific decisions. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u910	She's the one we've read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u911	She's the one we've read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u912	It says, therefore, that in the light of Article 15(2), the State becomes the regulator of the operation of broadcasting and the guarantor of pluralism. And it specializes: Who is it that exercises this guarantee and regulatory function? It distinguishes and is in introductory terms what I am saying now: 'The State (legislative and executive power and the National Broadcasting Council as an independent administrative authority)'. Distinguished responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen. The National Broadcasting Council has a core of competence, to control the quality of emissions and to impose sanctions to serve the purpose of the objective of the information policy and of the high cultural level. The State does not remove its responsibility and maintains it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u913	The Council's control... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u914	Then who canceled the opportunity of the National Broadcasting Council to exercise its full competence? Who? You, ladies and gentlemen. So what? And tiers and virgins? You who have canceled the opportunity of the National Broadcasting Council to fulfil its constitutional role, are you coming today and controlling us? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, enters the plenary session.]] And to tell you: I told you that the Council of State expressly says that it is not solely the competence of the National Broadcasting Council on all matters. It does not have the power to grant the prior authorisation. Shall I take a step further? Let's just say he didn't have one. They know my fellow professors of public law that when it becomes impossible to fulfil a constitutional purpose, it still considers the case law of the French Council of State with the theory of exceptional circumstances - there is a body of decisions, such as Dames Dol et Laurent, Heyriès - that the constitutional purpose should not be cancelled and that a way of fulfilling it is found. What is the constitutional purpose here of the provision? The objectivity of information. If you, with your actions, made it impossible for the National Broadcasting Council to exercise this competence, who has competence? That body, which is the presumption of competence, the general competence of a democratic state: the parliament. So, according to our proposal, it is the one that will end, not the Minister, but the House, the body that expresses democratic legitimacy in a better way than anyone else. The second objection of unconstitutionalism was that we set a certain number of licences and did not let the market or technology decide. Here I am referring to the decision of the Board of Directors 2594/2015. It is not just about public service concessions that we are going to do. It concerns, says the Council of State, and a public asset which is, 'fast resource' and the management of which is 'the sovereign right of the State'. Because it is not a matter of buying, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of democracy, it is an issue of the objectivity of information and the ability of the Greek people to shape their will freely and not as some 'pimps' would like to use the fair term that has rightly used a personality of your own party, as they did in the referendum, as they are trying to do now, perverting every political initiative we have taken. Finally, because you also referred to the European acquis, and you dared to mention Poland, which is essentially a copy of what you did with the ERT, because in Poland they persecuted journalists and closed in,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u915	They did not do that in Poland. Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u916	I'd like to say what we're doing is completely different. We are with democracy, with impartiality, with objectivity, against complexity. I would remind you, just for your information, that the last country to have proceeded with a competition comparable to the one that we are going through was Italy two years ago. And who did the contest in Italy, ladies and gentlemen? The Ministry responsible. So these are prophecies in sin! You are defending the conflict, not democracy. And the complication will be defeated!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u917	Thank you, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Katrugalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u918	Mr President, because I did not say it in my word and would like it to be recorded, the Golden Dawn states 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u919	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been completed. Those who object to anti-constitutionalism, i.e. that the amendment is not in line with the Constitution, would please rise. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] The number of Members required and required by the Rules of Procedure and a statement of non-constitutionality has not been raised. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has asked for the floor. Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u920	Ladies and gentlemen, before I get to the bottom of the matter, let me pay tribute to the wrongful pilots of the helicopter of our Navy who were lost yesterday at dawn, doing their duty and serving with self-determination at home. I would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the deceased, to their relatives, and to assure them that the state will do everything in its power to help them at these difficult times. I know, of course, that in the face of human loss a little comfort offers words and actions. But it is our duty to stand by their families and always remember those who give even their own life for duty. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting has proved in the clearest way what it is that they are seeking to bring a class to the commonly established immunity and lawlessness in the broadcasting landscape of the country and who are trying to prevent the government from fulfilling its commitments and to proceed to the tender for the licensing of television media. Of course, I also think that the outcome of this process will enable the Greek people to draw conclusions. For many years now, in the political life of the place, a concept has been heard in many respects, a term: 'Contracting'. Complication of economic interests and a political system. Many times people use this term when they want to avoid conflicting with real causes and real interests. But at some point the time comes to put the finger on the type of suns and explain what "complex" means, what are the causes that produce it and how it can be dealt with, if it wants to, of course to deal with it. Unless he wants to cover it. I think that the underground routes of this maze of economic interests in our country, particularly after the technology has given us for private television, are a little well known to all of us. Civil power feeds economic and media power, and this in turn gives simple support to political power, in order to reproduce the same bankrupt and poor political system, a political system which is one of the main causes that the country has arrived here. This is a media that, according to commonly, has only been damaged and not profitable, which is maintained and borrowed by banks with the sole aim of supporting politically bankrupt governments, politically bankrupt parties - not only politically bankrupt parties, but also bankrupt parties - in exchange for natural government facilities in parallel business activities by media owners, public contractors and commissions, in the possibility of favourable lending for the instruments themselves, but also for other businesses, when, in the past five years, banks have not borrowed healthy businesses and, of course, through the favourable behaviour of auditing mechanisms and often the lack of tax controls. If we want to speak truths, then, this is the structure of the country over years, with a sense of feeling, for those who have set up this system of interlocutory for years, that this reality in the country, since it lasts for decades, will last forever. Even if some governments wanted to collide - if you like superficially - they didn't make it. But it happened because of the crisis - there is no doubt - that no one could imagine that it will happen: the two parties of power which have been changing for a long time with each other into power, but also the support systems, suddenly found themselves struggling with fingernails and teeth to rescue this system and the system to save them and at some point they lost power. A year ago, the people gave us a clear mandate and support to a new government in order to conflict with interests and with this establishment, a support that has been confirmed not only once, but three times in less than one year and extremely difficult conditions. But the people have also given us a clear mandate, which we do not forget: "Contract with the establishment, change the pathogens, fight the systems of inter-terrorism, cleanse the country from the outbreaks of infraction, from the real outbreaks of lawlessness, from the outbreaks of lawlessness by the state-run and interconnected oligarchs and their partners who have enriched on the back of the Greek people, on the back of the workers, the retired, the living forces of the Greek society, which in recent years have given their blood to get out of the crisis". I am talking about all those who especially have the years of growth, but unfortunately also in the years of the crisis, have been making state money either from supplies of large state contractors with certain companies, such as the 'SIEMENS' - so that we do not forget in this place - which has given a significant percentage of its profits directly to the parties and to the members of the parties that were ruling, either by'maritime' from state or private banks which have, of course, been paying them blood to date by the Greek people. All of these over-profits obviously placed them, without taxing them, in some foreign banks. That's why and when lists and depositors came to foreign banks sometimes, the previous governments, your governments, took care of these lists and these figures to hide them, to shove them in some drawers and not to check them out. Now, then, it is time for all those who have for years now - not only in crisis - ravaged and stripped all the vital power of Greek society to explain, pass through the fund, pay their taxes, and they, like all other Greeks, pay those who have made their money abroad tax free and are on the various lists of tax evasion. I remember the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, in this Chamber, when we talked about the Lagard list saying about his close associate, Mr Papastavros, who was found with great tax-free amounts and paid EUR 3,500,000, "I wish we had ten Papastavres!". Well, not ten, a hundred ten will have and will pay! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So what are we asking? To pay their taxes, like all other Greeks, to pay those who have loans that do not serve, as happened with all other Greeks, healthy businessmen who through the crisis had loans that could not help them and were forced to pay or close their businesses. Thousands of enclosures in business in five years, but I didn't see any pain in these padlocks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u921	Let's get some more!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u922	To tell us why they forgot to make statements "from a point of view" for years, especially in the years when they appeared to bring to Greece and manage tens of millions of euros and place them in media companies. To pay their taxes too! Of course they will pay taxes and charges for frequencies and advertising and for media owners, like all other Greek businessmen, do, despite difficulties, and get one class in. We are the only country in Europe that has no legal function in the private media. One class needs to be emptied of the media, as is the case in every other country of the European Union. Today we are paradoxical: you are all coming, all of you, who have ruled for so many years and that you have created this grid of interlocutory, you are coming all of you who had the basic responsibility, and you have made back to all of these years and you are now trying to cover them. You're trying to get them back on. It's not enough you've taken back to the tax collectors and you've covered the Lagard list when you were government, it's not enough that you didn't control the loans of certain companies, in exchange for their support from the media while you were government, it's not enough that you covered the immunity of the unauthorized media for twenty-seven years while you were governments, you're coming here and you're trying and you're trying, and you don't understand or do that you don't understand that the Greek people have voted three times to change things in the place. And as if that's not enough...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u923	The second one was?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u924	I know you don't like what I'm saying, but you'll hear it. As if that's not enough, you're selling some gentlemen. You promise them that you will be able to prevent us from trying not to set the National Broadcasting Council. Well, you're deeply mistaken. You will not prevent us because it is a people's imperative to put an end to conflict and corruption, and we are determined to put an end to stranding and corruption, whether you want it or not. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] However, we are told by some, ladies and gentlemen, that we are allegedly bringing this regulation down. They are probably not remembered to be one of our main programming statements, both in the first phase of governance and in our re-election. We have stated at every opportunity and in every way our commitment to regulate the broadcasting landscape, to our commitment that, after twenty-seven years of looseliness, licences will finally be granted, in strict conditions of transparency and with absolute respect for the principles of equality and the rule of law, as is the case in every civilised European country. If for something you could blame us maybe, it's not that we bring it on, but maybe we're late. But we are not late at some point because we have not even tried to compromise. We were late because we had the hope and at the same time the illusion that in this place we could all turn a page together and that the conservative party would come with a consensus to put order in the broadcasting landscape. In the first period of governance, obviously the conditions of negotiation and economic suffocation have not allowed us to go ahead. Immediately after the election, it was the first law we voted on. Immediately after and during the debate on the law in Parliament, we sought the widest possible consensus with anti-population forces so that we all can move together, as we should, in this great democratic section on the country's political and economic system, which has been afflicted in recent years. Our aim immediately after the law was to define, as the Constitution stipulates and prescribes, the members of the National Broadcasting Council, in which we, by the same law, were responsible for carrying out the relevant competition. At first we respected the argument put forward by Officer Opposition that it must first complete its internal-party procedures and then jointly proceed. And I believe that, by some of the representatives of the Civilian Operational Tribunal, this argument was not paradoxical but sincere. As soon as Mr Mitsotakis was elected to the leadership of the New Democracy, however, he immediately rushed with reasonable territips and pretexts to block, prevent the election of the Independent Authority, the National Broadcasting Council. Initially, it has been said that it wants more members of the National Broadcasting Council. We have shown goodwill, we have come here to the House, we have increased the number of members of the Council. He later told us 'no, I can't agree now because the Minister has superpowers'. And we faced this pretext with good will, and we came here to the House, and as many powers as the Minister had, we brought them to the National Representation,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u925	A triumph!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u926	... that the National Representation, the most representative and democratic of the Constitution, should be the one to decide who should and how the process should be done. Of course, we realised very quickly that this was also a pretext. There have been three answers. In all three meetings, the New Democracy actually told us one thing: "We do not want to have a competition and we are not going to consent." I think that's proved to be a great deal more than that. There is no longer any argument to be able to counteract the reality that you refuse to offer a consensus on the election of the independent authority, for the uninterrupted completion of the procedure, precisely because you do not wish to conduct a tender. I said yesterday at the Ministerial Council meeting - and I repeat here - that this is a kind of institutional diversion. And I'm explaining. The consensus on the appointment of members of the National Broadcasting Council is not merely a political wish or a mere instigation of the Constitution. It is a constitutional requirement in the narrow sense of the term, as non-consensual leads to a shortening of state and administrative institutions. So, unfortunately, the New Democracy is in breach of a clear constitutional obligation and we cannot allow this to happen politically, but also legally, to be allowed to do so. Of course, let's not be fooled. We all know that for some time now some have been playing their change, seeking, hopefully, that there will be no licensing procedure, seeking to stop this great effort of consolidation, which is really under difficult circumstances. Of course, sometimes the people who try, by giving their change, to create conditions for social and political crisis, instead of bringing about this result, are more likely to spread laughter, because the Greek people know them. Those who have been struggling for the rural world in recent days, highlighting popular mobilizations, how barbaric and anti-grassy the policy of the memorials is, were the same to support, propaganda with nails and teeth much worse policies. The same people, the same instruments, for example, just a few years ago, swayed agricultural mobilizations and ejected cords against farmers and today appear as honorers and companions. But the point is that no one believes them. But they are used to it, because - and this is a truth - many of them, not all of them, of course - because I repeat that it was a system of rotation in governance, which also made its own system of misappropriation and support - but some of them and you were blackmailed when you were in the government. Of course, by extortion that they will create a wave of reaction to your policy, you have backed up and are used to it. They think that we too will step back and do not go ahead with the commitments we have made to the Greek people. They're making a huge mistake! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because we have not come to power in order to manage your own structures, but in order to change them, neither to watch or worse to participate in this party. We are committed to ending this and we will finish it. We are committed to combating the causes and not just the symptoms of the crisis. Everyone knows that among the reasons, with a significant contribution to all the evils that happened at the place, it was also this grid of corruption, tax evasion, interlocutory, that is, all the practices of oligarchy for easy and fast money. You know, we've started this race that's already making results. We're exhaustingly checking the tax fugitive lists. We're fighting the smuggler. We're increasing public revenue, despite the circumstances of crisis. We are reconstructing the control mechanisms. Today we are taking another decisive step: we are putting order in the broadcasting landscape. In accordance with the provision we are calling today on the national delegation to vote for, we are launching the tender for four television licences in Greece. You know, those who did not want to be a competition were telling us, among other things, one thing: 'Don't put any limit on the number of licences'. The reason is obvious. If we went out to competition with an unlimited number of permits, all the efforts would have been horrific. It's like you decide to run a competition to sell ice to the North Pole or sand to the desert. There was no reason. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you especially told us this summer that you want to stay in Europe and you are pro-European, because you are giving up on the closed number of licences, that he is supposedly small and that he is allegedly restricting competition, I would like to ask you a straight question: in the rest of Europe are idiots who have made contests and have a limited number of licences and we are the ones who are going to discover the wheel? If we exclude Italy from what is known as blusconism - and that is why it is an exception - what happens to all the other European countries, where competitions have been carried out? Let me tell you what's going on. Do you know how many permits are in all the countries that have - let us start from them - a similar population to that of Greece? In Portugal, Austria and the Czech Republic, which are similar populations to Greece, we do not have four permits but two. In the European countries with an equivalent population, only two licences are available. Do you know how much licenses are in Spain, which has a five-fold larger population than Greece? Five. In Greece it is now eight, of course in conditions of illegality. Do you know how many are in France, which has a six-fold larger population than Greece? It's only five. In Germany, which is eight times larger, it's only six. Therefore, on the basis of European data, the four authorisations we are proposing are many, not few. If you wish, then, and you tell us that you want to stay in Europe, as you were telling us in the summer, follow Europe's example. But you want Europe in terms of austerity for many, and you want bananas in terms of the privileges of the few. You are with this Europe! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is why for five years now that the country has been under supervision, in all the agreements we have signed as a country one thing you have not kept - all the other things you have done for five years that you have been government - to proceed to the tender for television licences. We will therefore answer you: yes, Greece will remain a European country, but Europe's bananas, as you wish, no, we will not allow it to happen. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As for those fanatical neoliberals, who claim that all this must be solved by the market itself, I just want to make one comment: really, why is this market, all of which solved by itself, twenty-seven years, has not managed to solve the problem and have resulted in overcompensated and unsustainable patterns, which are maintained in life from bank liquidity injections, while the rest of the economy has dried up? The market, ladies and gentlemen - and you in particular are defending it - is aware of the fact that it has rules which the state, the democratic state, must lay down and guarantee. So that is what we intend to do, to set rules at last and to guarantee compliance with them. After all, that is what the European Commission advises us. I imagine that you will see today the reply of her representative to a question from a journalist. If you want, you can ask her again. But you say to us - and you constantly call on the country's Constitution yourself - that under the Constitution, the state is not entitled to conduct the tender. So I'm going to answer that, too. According to the constitution of the country, the broadcasting scene is under the direct control of the State and not under the direct control of the Broadcasting Council. If the constitutional legislature wanted the competition for permits to carry out the PSE well, it would clearly define it and not do so, giving Parliament the power to decide. So the House today, after the government's exhaustive efforts to secure consensus on the definition of the PSE, has only decided that the lies in this matter are over and everyone is invited to assume their responsibilities. You have decided to violate the Constitution by blocking the election of the Broadcasting Council. We have only one choice in front of us, in keeping with the Constitution, and in implementing the people's check, on which we have been elected: to put order in the broadcasting landscape. So, today, the government will take over, following the mandate of the Parliament, the National Representation, to proceed with the competition in conditions of transparency and strict compliance with the law, as it has command and duty towards the Greek people. Because I see that you have done a great deal of trouble, but as far as I know you have so far not requested a roll-call vote on this matter, I tell you that, if you do not ask, we will ask. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because the National Representation must record the votes in favour of this democratic section and who are opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u927	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Officerial Representation now has the floor, Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u928	Do not worry, Prime Minister, about the roll-call vote. The request's coming. Don't worry about it at all. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] I'm gonna need ten minutes, Mr. President. I'll be brief. I don't mean to go around like the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u929	As long as you want, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u930	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech as follows: like all Greeks, I feel painful about the loss of three members of the Navy who lost their lives today in the morning of duty. Greece, the Greeks, the Armed Forces are mourning. I, too, express my sincere condolences to the families of the executives. They will always be an example for us. I hope, of course, that soon the relevant Ministry and the General Staff of National Defence will give adequate answers, Prime Minister, to the causes of this tragedy. Prime Minister, you have served today to be extremely interesting and - I dare say - a long exercise of disorientation. I don't know if you've realized how critical the situation in the country is. I do not know if you have realised that society is resurrected, that the economy is stagnating and, of course, that, as I will explain in a moment, the institutions are falling apart. I do not need to talk about the international image of the country, as it is already on the tartars. Of course, critical decisions relating to the national sovereignty of the country are made at one night, in the interpretation of the political forces and the Greek people. Of course, freedom of information and pluralism are under threat and political uncertainty, Prime Minister, rests with your own responsibility, with the officials of the Government and with statements by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. Also, the country's constitution is being completely violated and for all of this, your own government's responsibilities are enormous. You know very well that your government, Prime Minister, has systematically lied to all social groups. He is also involved today in tacticalisms. You divide the Greeks and face very serious issues. I would like to say just one word about the movement of society, to which you have also referred. All the social groups are against you. The production of Greece is in front of you. Creative Greece is against you. Do you know why? Because you lied to them. The problem, unfortunately, has been exacerbated by your ideas and inability. The truth, Mr. Tsipras, is that you can move from the Maximos Mansion to the House and back. But in society you can't go out. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What did you want with her, Prime Minister, this report on the tractors? What did you want with her? Can I remind you what you were saying on the tractors? May I remind you of the abhorrence of the farmer, who, when you told him that you would abolish all the Memorandum Laws, reminded you ‘to do them after you were elected’? What did you answer to him, Prime Minister? You said to him: 'I will, of course, do it, because this is the order I take from the Greek people'. And you did exactly the opposite. Just so we don't forget! So I would like to give you some heart advice. Stop seeing just enemies everywhere. Stop, above all, treating citizens as enemies. You are facing as enemies all the social forces that are protesting today. Stop, finally, splitting up society. I now come to the main theme of today's debate on the issue of the licensing of television stations. Look, our attitude to this matter is quite clear. The New Democracy will defend the free information of the Greek people and the free functioning of the market, but always, Prime Minister, under the control of the constitutionally guaranteed independent authority. Did anyone disagree, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, that there must be transparency and clear rules in the broadcasting landscape? No one disagrees with that. And what applies to all entrepreneurs should also apply to television media owners. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But you don't take it there, Prime Minister. You're not taking it there! With today's amendment you only have one purpose: you want to make Mr Pappa, the Minister of State, the absolute sovereign of the media. That is what you want to do, and after you have made sure that you fully inactivate the National Broadcasting Council, the only body responsible for monitoring broadcasting. Prime Minister, you will force me, because you have referred to the post-Collection officer's attitude, to remind you of what I said to you in the private debate which we had a few days after I was elected as President of the Liberation Officer. What did I tell you, Prime Minister? Did I tell you we don't want to solve the problem? I told you a simple word: return the ERR to where they belong, and we will vote immediately on the composition of the ERR. That's what I told you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have pretended to be quite ignorant of the responsibilities you had transferred to the Minister of State. You have read today, Prime Minister, and the country's constitution, but you have forgotten to read the second sentence of the relevant subparagraph. Because, obviously, you need a little reminder of what the Constitution says, I am reading you from paragraph 2 of Article 15: "Radiophony and television fall under the direct control of the State". You told us that too, Prime Minister. What you did not read to us is the second proposal, which says: 'Control and enforcement of administrative sanctions fall under the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council'. Check!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u931	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u932	It does not have to be a constitutionalist to understand, Prime Minister, that the Constitution is expressly and unequivocally referring to control! - the State, which is exercised exclusively, ladies and gentlemen, through the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u933	A little quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u934	So, Prime Minister, it is very simple. It does not have to be a constitutionalist to see both the spirit and the letter of the constitutional legislator. In fact, you also referred to the four licenses you legally define. I have a few simple questions and a few questions to ask, Prime Minister. Why only four licenses and not fourteen, twenty-four or thirty-four? If you were really interested in harnessing and promoting pluralism, I would assume that you would like to give more permissions rather than less. That's what I imagine is your purpose. And when you referred to the situation that prevails... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. President, can we have some quiet, please? I understand the nervousness of colleagues, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u935	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u936	Are you going to enforce the order or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u937	Where's the president? Unprecedented not to exist in the debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u938	I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Watch out for a bit. I practice exceptionally wisely...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u939	You don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u940	Be careful, please, because the speaker's heart is interrupted. I'm trying to do it wisely so I won't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u941	But he's been interrupted by everyone else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u942	Tell the lady!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u943	For the time being, Mr President, you have not done this at all, but it does not matter. It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u944	Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u945	Prime Minister, you referred to the European broadcasting landscape. Firstly, the information you have given is inaccurate. Secondly, you referred to how many channels operate and not how many licences have been issued. You are involved in the free operation of the market with the licensing regime. The market itself imposed this number of channels on European media markets. This was not enforced by law. I have a question with regard to this very interesting report from the European Centre for Technology in Florence, which you have tabled. I don't even know who asked for this report, and if it's paid, but tell her editor that when someone divides 24 by 8, she does 3 and not 2! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it is quite clear - and you know that - that there is no substantial technical restriction on the number of licences. You didn't even say it today. But that is precisely what the so-called report refers to, which you have presented to us here. Since we are on how the market works, Prime Minister, why do you not impose corresponding restrictions on the operation of other markets? Why don't you even set a maximum number of cinemas, soups, restaurants, hairdressers? Is that how you understand the functioning of the market?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u946	It's your good. That's our difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u947	Prime Minister, the truth is... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen! Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u948	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u949	One thing you're interested in, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u950	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u951	Mr. Balaura, please! Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u952	Calm down, gentlemen! Prime Minister, you're creating your own system of interacting. You're the complication, Mr. Tsipras! You're the complication, you're older than the old one! Because information is the right of the Greek people, this information can't be trampled. Unfortunately, however, Prime Minister, this is your overall attitude, because the problem here is wider. And what we are experiencing today is just a link in a country's institutional depreciation chain, because you are turning the country into a step by step, a step by step, in a specific authoritarian regime. May I freshen your memory, Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen, on what you have done over the past year? You sought to manipulate the independent authorities. The National Telecommunications and Post Committee, the Capital Market Commission, RAE. Object all concepts of integrity to the posts of officials in the public administration. You made choices in justice, which give rise to reasonable questions. You accelerated the crisis at the Greek police. You have made an absolute misuse of legislative acts. In fact, you only legislate by legislative acts. And now you are completely abolishing the National Broadcasting Council with one single aim, to form, as you wish, the new broadcasting landscape. So I warn you, Prime Minister, that the path you have taken is a slippery path. You know that very well - and your Minister says in private - that this provision will not endure the crisis of the Council of State. It is also certain that this provision will trigger Brussels's institutional reflexes. Several problems of credibility have been raised by the country from your policies. The last thing that needs is to be dealt with legally and politically, such as Poland and Hungary. And there, unfortunately, you are driving the country, Prime Minister, with your options. You said, Prime Minister, that you are every word of the Constitution. Obviously, you have forgotten the relevant Article 15(2). The same constitution, in which you and I and all other colleagues have sworn to serve, is being brutally violated today by the proposed regulation. And unfortunately, because your Government is unable to deal with the grim reality that you yourself have created, you choose the path of regiment practices. These are practices which, unfortunately, remove Greece, remove the country from the European values of the rule of law. And that, Mr Tsipras, will not allow you, neither will we nor all the pro-European forces. Because you have made many references to Civic Opposition - I understand why, I understand, you are concerned that the dynamics of Civic Opposition - but you have forgotten to say all parties are in the face of the arrangements that you have brought, not only the Civic Opposition. All the other parties have strongly criticised you. So the New Democracy and all the pro-European forces will fight to prevent this particular institutional Grexit, launched by the government majority. I shall end, Prime Minister, with a teaching history, a story that comes from the time of the French Revolution. So since the French Revolution, ladies and gentlemen, which, as you know, Prime Minister, guaranteed freedom of the press in 1792, the respective authority has always sought to find ways of controlling and suppressing freedom. Napoleon, who followed the French Revolution, dealt with the press restriction himself. So, in 1810, he founded the Directorate of Printing and Publications and the press passed under the absolute control of the Emperor as the only authority. In each geographical district, therefore, in France, Prime Minister, only one newspaper was allowed at that time. There's been an exception in Paris. Do you know how many were allowed? Four, Prime Minister. So, did you see any coincidences, where history hides? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u953	The Minister of State, Mr. Nikolaos Pappas, has the floor for 15 minutes. I imagine you arrive, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u954	Ladies and gentlemen, we have so far become accustomed to the New Democracy being overturned before the elections of January last year, to criticize us and to criticise us for what we have not been able to achieve. That it will revert to the French Revolution, distorting its meaning, we honestly did not expect it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That you need to go so far in the past, to find arguments, we didn't expect it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u955	Napoleon...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u956	We have waited sincerely for a word of self-criticism. Are you satisfied with the TV scenery?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u957	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u958	You're satisfied! Yes, sir! This is - I will repeat - for the Minutes. You're satisfied with the TV scenery. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The new leader of your resignation, Mrs. Vultesis, is more measured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u959	It's not your fault, you don't agree with each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u960	If you don't like "MEGA," then why did you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u961	I would therefore expect a word of self-criticism against which Greek television has now come. And from what I understand from the reactions, only Mrs Vultesis is satisfied, unless it is all the conservative party in Greece. That'll be new. I'd expect a word of nostalgia. It was not one of you - three hours you discuss procedural matters - to say and to say that you tried to do something with the history of the main shareholder. One wasn't found to come out and say that yes, this party tried to do something. We didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u962	We have said so, Mr Pappa, you have not heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u963	Nothing! The well-known catastrophe of the litigation. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u964	You're suffering from political grief, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u965	Today Greece is no longer a disgrace to Europe, ladies and gentlemen. It's no longer the only country that lets emit without permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u966	Anything you don't like, will you shut it down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u967	Don't tell me now if I like it or I don't like it. Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u968	Anything you don't like, will you shut it down? Answer me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u969	Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u970	Like you did to ERT, Sofia?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u971	We won't talk like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u972	The last offense of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u973	Mr. Pappa, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u974	Yes, but I would ask you, Mrs. Vulture, to bring her back to class.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u975	He's not coming back to class.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u976	"It does not come back" says Mr. Squash. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u977	There is no measure than we understand. I'm so sorry. I hoped that this type of criticism would not dare you to cut it off at the table. I remember seeing a news release just after your new leader was elected and feeling like I'm watching your election spot. Are we kidding around here? The mud, the disgrace and the vomit that has been detonated by various people against government officials, do you not see them? And you claim that we control the flow of information? A little shame at last! We have an opportunity today, ladies and gentlemen, for Greece to cease being the only country that has never implemented an official licensing procedure. Private channels have been operating for twenty-five years under the temporary legal regime, not even temporary licences, because New Democracy and PASOK have never wanted - and I am afraid, unfortunately, that they do not want to have a competition today to place a class in the broadcasting scenery. They have chosen consciously to maintain, cultivate and "water", develop the triangle of interlocutory. They don't want to be a competition. The first law that provided for the competition was passed in 1995. The first extension of legal operation was passed in 1998. It's clear they don't want to be a competition. In 2002, the competition procedure in the law is abolished. It's clear they don't want to be a competition. A new prolongation cycle starts in 2006, fifteen. Let me put them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On these extensions, we had a ministerial signature. I don't remember anybody then getting up, talking about junkers, about Georgians, about North Korea, and I don't know what else. No one was dancing on the mountains when these were held, usually on New Year's Eve, just before the royal pie, with the last sinful act just before January last year. Our government is, therefore, the first government, which is determined to open a competition - and we are still trying to undermine this process even now - with Mr.4339/2015, which we voted at the end of October by a majority on the basic provisions - I repeat - much wider the government. The provisions concerning competition were also passed by smaller opposition parties, by the Democratic Association and the Potami, as well as by the provisions on the development of the ERT's digital network. We have also repeatedly welcomed this. How did New Democracy react after the law was passed? Since it is no longer a government and they cannot cut and sew night extensions, they have found another way to kill the competition: by blocking the process of forming the National Broadcasting Council. The majority of the House, the Congress, depleted all the limits, did what is human and parliamentaryly possible to establish a National Broadcasting Council. The President of Parliament has tabled proposals in good time, which - if I may remind you - were welcomed as very serious, but the procedure was blocked. So with what credibility now, the Civic Opposition is coming here and calls for further amendments. None of the goodwill moves we have made has been exploited to move forward. Who are you expecting to believe that you're concerned with who's signed for the competition? It's none of your business at all. Because at all, you did not care at all about prolonging this illegality, with nighttime, identical amendments 15 times, where only the date was changed, where you were giving extensions. And instead of self-criticism, we have extremism here. So, we ask: What country in Europe are free-range channels, terrestrial broadcasts, that is, channels whose programme is being broadcast freely through the network of antennas? It's nowhere infinite. The Prime Minister mentioned the numbers. Don't try to create confusion. Don't confuse the world. There are other channels that you can see on a pay-TV bouquet, another number of cumulative national channels and national channels and regional channels, which will obviously be later on, we will also be able to license national terrestrial broadband channels. They are the pan-Hellenic channels that people can see without paying any subscriptions. These channels are counted. In Britain there are five. What are they? I don't understand. They want to be like Poland too? They want to be North Korea? How do we eclipse such extremes in front of the National Representation? What exactly do we think we're serving? Of course, now I feel like I've been swinging open doors, because the New Democracy since the beginning of this debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u978	You're breaking open doors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u979	I'm breaking open doors, good. New Democracy has been in the process since the beginning of the debate, with the following argument: there is no need for any authorisation procedure. And to support it, he has invented, invented any type of argument and any kind of procedural terminology and pretext. How many delays from your inner-party procedure until the refusal to agree to the Conference of Presidents of Parliament, until now, the procedural issues! The process started at 7 p.m. and the debate at 20.30 p.m. What for? So what do you do? It is clear, I think, to the Greek people that the New Democracy does not want to be a competition. We were told that we were violating the Constitution. If the constitutional legislator, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, wanted the authorisation to belong exclusively to the National Broadcasting Council, he had nothing but to include it in the same text that speaks of administrative sanctions. Allow me to submit to the minutes an opinion from the Professor of Constitutional Law of the Athens School of Law, Mr. Yiannis Drossos, who confirms that the rule of law of the Government, which entrusts the elected government of the country, is fully compatible with the Constitution. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents the above-mentioned opinion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For our part, as I said, we have made successive retreats. Our own legislative initiative has again been claimed here by the Anti-Populations, unfortunately too. I would urge you to also inform the Commission, because its representative today said what we had known for a long time when your MEP tried to drugize it, that the licensing procedure was a national competence. So do not hope in a second scenario of the main shareholder, where the ban will come from outside. You've just changed roles now, because then the ban came to your government. Now you're hoping in the forbidden, to serve different interests. I'm so sorry. So the next day, ladies and gentlemen, will be a day of legality. The next day he can find Greece with four free digital broadcasting channels and high-resolution, all over Greece. And I'd tell you there's a measure when you're so comfortable with the scientific studies that people have made, who are supposedly aware of it. I would urge you to send a detailed letter of your objections to this university and explain your position. We, from the very beginning of the debate, have chosen the question of the economic viability of the stations, because we do not want television channels which are injurious, television channels that live with over-lapping and thus develop the relationships that are inappropriate, let me be allowed to do so. This study really comes to unleash your arguments about infinite technological capacity and licensing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u980	Where did you find this study?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u981	Don't say where we found it. European Institute. Look and find how many times it has worked with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u982	Who are they? We don't know them. What investigations have they done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u983	Is Harvard and you invoke it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u984	You have an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to show that you have, in fact, taken conclusions from the twenty-five-year-old history of lawlessness and - I would say to you - submit politics to the interests involved. I would like to tell you that, in particular with regard to you. Because I think this is not just about the Left. It's about your party, too. It is about politics and democracy as a whole. Stand up and put back even now, to rinse the shame of the past twenty-five years. I don't hope very much, I hope a little. Show if you understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u985	Before I give the floor to Mr Stavros Theodorakis, I would like to inform the House that a request for a roll-call vote was tabled by Members of SYRIZA. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u986	So let's talk about television and talk about complication. In my first speech here in Parliament last year, I proposed that we try together to dismantle the triangular relationship between banks - media - politics, a relationship that distorts information, a relationship that tries to define political developments and burdens public funds. These words, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I used some such days last year in the government's schedule statements in February 2015. That was the first priority in the media. And here I agree with the Prime Minister, to cut the media feed with political money. When I say political money, I mean loans, not legal loans taken by every company, but loans granted after political orders, and I mean, of course, aid from those who do work for the public. I am strengthening a channel and that strengthens the politician who, in turn, will give me a new job. I remember in the years of journalism a August, a few years ago, that some newspapers and channels were filled with EOT entries. It was obvious that the then Minister of Culture had decided to help some of his friends in the media to help him, and in the next difficult winter. So this is the problem in the country under the 'complex' sign. It's political money in the media. It may be limited today because there is no money, but the first chance will be here again to distort the business game and the political game. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] So let's go see what the government proposes. He says I want to close two channels and license another four channels. But the question is simple and specific and we must repeat it: why only four channels? Now they broadcast eight national channels and laugh at television technicians with the claim that in Greece's digital spectrum there are only four channels. And now how do they broadcast eight channels after they only fit four? With today's technology, our country is able to transmit sixteen high-definition programmes. The report the government claims with a source of the Florence graphics is inaccurate. It says: Bulgaria has licensed two channels. No, he's cleared four. The Czech Republic has also authorized four and not two of the reports. And Poland has authorised eight, not three, which your report says. But let's leave the inaccuracies coming. And why did we go to Florence? We also had experts here to tell us what is going on with the digital spectrum in the Greek universities. But let's leave Florence. When you say four, Prime Minister, it is like saying - and that is how people take it: 'I threaten the eight that they will become four with an obvious purpose of entering the bazaars with me. At the same time, I'll tell a Turkish friend that he'll get a channel. Things make it hard. So everyone is easier at my threats." I think everyone realises that the arrangements you've been trying to make over the past few months in relation to television do not put order in chaos, but create ground for bargaining with canalarchs, with the Minister to keep the spasm and decide who will survive, who will be one of the four, who will be one of the three. And obviously, as the political system of the past teaches, the most obedient will survive in the political power of this time. So you're building a regime of your own interlocutors. So, the dilemma you are putting today is an old-style complexion, a strand that has been chosen and supported by the New Democracy and the PASOK or SYRIZA-ANEL complex? If you want to break - we want - the sinful relationship of politics with television, there is only one solution, easy: Bring an amendment, a decision in the House that will strengthen responsibilities in the PSE. But in fact, the government has been showing an allergy to the independent authorities lately. It's not just for the PSE. There are ministers stops, there are SYRIZA stops for all the independent authorities. More and more often we hear strains coming from SYRIZA and ANEL saying that the independent authorities don't need to. These statements are public. But throughout the European Union, with the exception of Luxembourg, they have entrusted the control and responsibility for the regulation of television to independent authorities. All over Europe except Luxembourg! Of course, it is true that Poland's extreme right-wing government these days has decided to impose state control on television, which forced the European Commission to put it under surveillance. But let me ask, gentlemen of the government, and something else: Television pie is estimated to be about 230 million in 2015, to be shared by the eight players on TV today. So you say the 230 million - what comes next year - not to share the eight - to share the four. How does this weaken the few-government canalarchs? You share the money to less. And, of course, you're making the new canals stronger. Europe is constantly saying that the danger - because there is a risk - is the concentration of the power of SMEs in a few hands. That is exactly what you are promoting. The editors' association says so. Your people call it in the editors' association. They are opposed to any attempt to bring SMEs together in a few hands either following political decisions or after business decisions. We therefore call on you, Mr President-in-Office, to listen to Europe, to listen to the workers, to listen to the journalists, to listen to the logic and to get rid of the role of the great canalarch. There is one question to answer: with the stations which will be closed, the four stations which will be closed, what will be done? Where are the workers going? You go up to the public TV bars and you care about private television workers who will lose, with your proposal, their work. By announcing, gentlemen of the government, your initiative for the Minister of the Canalarch, you said you would also make a lot of money for the Greeks. And you said, "We calculate 8 million on each licence" and now you say, "3.5 million each licence, because we had calculated a lot". That is, 4.5 million minus per licence. Whispers? You tell me, you said that out of the five thousand tax evasion cases you'd bring 2.5 billion. Where is he? You said that from the control of the transfers abroad, you'd find one billion dollars. Where is he? And you yourself, Mr. Tsipras, said a year ago, here in February 2015, that we will make 1.5 billion out of the fight against the smuggling of fuel and tobacco. And we said, "Of course, do it." Where is he? Money, that's to say, chickens too! However, because there is no money at all or, in fact, money is there, but you are unable to find it and bring it to the public funds, you say: "Let's give some sight to the people. To make a show about the complexion, forget the insurance world too." I sum up our proposal: to close the political money in every way and at all. We must give permission to those who meet the conditions, to pay the licences, to strengthen the authority of the PSE, not only the permits, but also the control. And here we put our backs on if you try. Anybody who violates the law suffers sanctions. Potami, Mr Tsipras, was the only Party that put forward a concrete proposal to set up the PSE, specific names, in our view universal acceptance enough of them. But our proposal, our proposal, our proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u987	Did the others do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u988	The others didn't. I'm talking about me. I'm talking about the river. I'm talking about us. Our proposal, however, has not even been discussed, because of course the purpose at the first moment is: either our own persons or anything, or the controlled RDP or nothing. It is clear, then, that you have no intention of putting order in the broadcasting scenery. You don't care about pluralism on TV. You don't care about conflicting with complexity. You are interested in conflicting with the complexity of others. To be clearer, listen - I want to read it in order not to make a mistake and you will understand why - "The collapsed government to support it is setting up its own complication. The government is haggling with the canals. He's trying to put in place the old canalarchs young, more cooperative with Maximos." Signature? Signature not to talk? Panagiotis Lafazanis. Today! Panagiotis Lafazanis! [[Applause from the river wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Unless you say that comrade Lafazanne has now been bought off by the few-governed interlocutors. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Because I see you, Mr. Healthcare colleague, be quiet because you are having trouble going to Crete, do not take your repulsive back to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u989	Do I find it hard to go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u990	Go talk to Crete, who are looking for you, about the promises you have made and do not be alarmed in Parliament. Do not be inappropriate in Parliament! Go to Crete, without a guard, of course, take care of you. Go to Crete and stop noisy in Parliament. The farmers are waiting for you in Crete. But to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u991	Once you're done, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u992	You're a minister, too. Come to the benches and be noisy. Well, to finish, the appreciation of our own, we that have nothing to do with the laws of the past, is that care and the new regime is to build a new, own, controlled regime on television and the media. The same goes for other sectors: state, public administration, police. You have envied the glory of your predecessors because they are not the first time. And here you are right. It's been many times since the post-population after. And of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u993	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u994	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u995	And, of course, we must say that Greece must leave the margins on television, newspapers, there must be a real business conflict without distortion. If we say there are four channels, how many newspapers do they fit? Will there be any next arrangement for the injurious newspapers? Are we gonna close the newspapers that can't come out today, the smaller newspapers? [[Applause from the river wing]] So the solution is not to close. The solution is to impose rules, to cut off the tip of political money, but to allow competition to solve problems and not to intervene politically. Anyway, I do not think that you should become the first government in Europe to shut down private stations. By paraphrasing poets, I would say: "You are the old one dragging on new minions. But that doesn't make you young!' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u996	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u997	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u998	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor. After Mr Voutsi, the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists will follow Mrs Brittany. Mr Leventis will then speak, the President of the Group of the European People's Party and then the Parliamentary Representatives of the Groups of the Partys which did not have their Presidents. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u999	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really political courage to lift the cry and to develop the rhetoric that it is being set up - with certainty, not as a speculation - a complication. In other words, the Left in the government, at least post-military, after forty years and has no right to do anything that will change the data that are today in an unjust state of law, as everyone recognizes. He doesn't have the right! If he tries to do it, he's setting up a complication. If this is not politically audacious and is not the epitome of a policy of confrontation, what would it be? Let me tell you that a few days ago there was a debate here. I say this because there will then be party leaders and so on. To speak. We also discussed this at the Conference of Presidents. In this debate there have been tabled in the Practical Tables, cuts, which were claimed - while we were telling them that it is a different situation - that in Europe, in all these countries, the licences for channels for digital relays of this quality we are talking about were five, ten, fifteen, twenty-five. Remember. And they've been filed in the Minutes. And we said, "The tables aren't right, look it up", because we're talking about the specific emissions in the digital spectrum, broadcasts, high reliability, etc. It is the table just before the Prime Minister, for which there is no question, because it is so much. Because as Mr Mitsotakis actually said, he did not actually correct. Confirm. So much has the market there, in countries with double and three-fold populations from Greece. I told you - at least five times I remember, I repeat, and myself to say it - that what had happened before the crisis, all the discussions that took place in this House and in the forums, at all times, showed that, in the sense of sustainability - so, from advertising, talking about private TV channels in Greece - so many licences. They were talking about two, three, four. These are facts that are clearly clear now - they are well-known - which cannot be called into question. If he's eight - did he sound earlier - do they not survive? They do not survive under business and real purchase conditions, wages, insurance premiums, new programme, reporter - Mr. Amyras, you are also a journalist, listen - perhaps needed around the world, etc. They don't survive like that! They can't survive seven or eight or nine channels on the Greek market!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1000	Four, why do they survive? Let them be two to survive for sure. Why would they survive four?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1001	Mr. Fisherman, please, you're also a journalist. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1002	I mean, mercy. Two!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1003	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1004	Not to me. Please very much. If you cannot answer any arguments, if you cannot say that you were either unrelated or had not studied four debates in plenary, the Committees and three in the Conference of Presidents, at least hear any arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1005	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1006	Don't shout about things you don't know. Please! Ladies and gentlemen, here it is clear that a game is being played. Everyone knows, indeed, that the new technology offers a lot of potential for subscriber channels, cable television, web TV, regional, thematically. There are too many possibilities, for tens, for hundreds of such broadcasts. Aren't we already in Greece having OTE TV, NOVA, with dozens of channels? You're in trouble, let me say, some of you, artificially and on purpose, that the rest of us don't understand. You're in trouble! We're not talking about licenses for these channels. We're talking about the rest. The others, therefore, may indeed be up to four on the basis of viability, on the basis of economic data. Didn't it surprise you that you were left alone, some of you - and I'm not talking about it at all - to say these things? Canalarchs, their union, people who know through television and journalism came out these days to defend and say they need eight, ten, twelve, that there is no problem? Nobody!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1007	The Union of the ESDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1008	No, of course not. Perhaps you have not read the CSCE communications, which has the real problem, as we must all have it, for the workers and the future of the workers. What does that have to do with the number of permits, Mr. Voridis? So please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1009	Why four channels? Where does the correspondence come from? From their head?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1010	Let go of your head.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1011	Not mine. From their heads!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1012	There was really a feeling that some give their change. Some people give their change! Why is that? Did anyone else, in critical phases and especially in this year, this year when a political war is taking place against the Left Government, give their own change? Did they give their own change? You want me to tell you a little story that isn't known? I'll tell you. I experienced it at the Ministry of the Interior that I was responsible for holding the referendum in that difficult week. Not only every day, there were the specific programmes that we have all understood and seen how much they were manipulated, but it also happened: on the last day, on Saturday, there was - not to say the word'settled' - a case to cancel the referendum, so that the referendum would not take place, in order to get about illegally, that the technical terms - I say to you things that are not known - dossiers, but that the money that had to be given to the judiciary had not been given because of the restrictions on the banks, had not been prepared for bags, etc. On Saturday, then, there was an agony from some circles. We knew, as a ministry, it was all ready. We also knew the hours that would come and the materials and, as you have seen, there was no objection and there was no problem the next day. So there, at 19:00-19: 30, half an hour before 20:00, there was a large delegation of parties, but also of the 'Yes' Commission in the Ministry, with a great anxiety to testify to her agony, as well as some paper scientific clubs, so that there could also be documentary figures, that the referendum could not be held the next day. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're not listening. You've never heard of them before. We reassured them. I gave them all the evidence with the Ministry's servants and we reassured them. We did not realize that this thing had been pushed from somewhere, it had been launched, etc. At the same time, however, the bulletins began. All the notes said the referendum had problems, one, two, three, four, five. And we were all seeing them together. Having already been reassured by the representatives of the parties, and so on, we saw the scenario being played towards the Greek people that there was no data to be a referendum on the other day and that we were driving in fiasco. It was a steadfast story now, in our democracy! Not to say on that Saturday that a channel - in honor of them no more channels - was playing political shows from morning until night in contrast to the Constitution. So when we talk about the Constitution and its defence, we know that frequencies are not supermarkets, as has unfortunately been mentioned earlier by the Chief of Officerial Opposition. It's not a supermarket! I beg your pardon very much, they are not trade products. It was the same thing - for those who know - that was the 'basic shareholder' of the case, where the Dutch who brought the whole cultural product as if it were a feta. That conflict was then. He passed it as if it were cars, feta, flowers, etc., as if it were a commercial product. So the Constitution is very clear. The state for frequencies and only for frequencies - not for the press, where a newspaper can also come out in three copies and say what it says - has full responsibility for objectivity, for their use, for the level, for quality. And we are talking - I repeat - about these programmes. We are not talking about the quality of bouquets, about whether - let us say - one channel shows how buffalo hunts are hunted and the other only has sporting relays. We are talking about these broad broadcasting channels - as has been analysed - which are 'Free On Air', where everyone can, that is, the last person to go through a shop, the poor, the poor, the poor, his home without paying anything, have access to it. That is where there is compulsory public supervision - and that makes the PSE - on quality and objectivity. So the PSE is indeed responsible for checking, for fines, to remove any licenses - of course! - to see every year its fixed financial data and other information to see tax and other obligations combined with the relevant ministries. There is no reason for the Constitution to give the PSE, even if there is no legal composition of it - and all the efforts that we all know now have been made - the licences to the channels. So that is very clear. And there is no need for anyone to be a legal or renowned constitutionalist to see what it is all about. I therefore call on you, after today's debate and depending on the decisions to be taken, to charge everyone - and we can, because it will be a transparent, obviously, procedure, a public process with all the economic data and all the files that will be available - so that the new digital landscape in our country, the new era in our country, start differently and not like poorly and under the responsibility of all the wings of this House began twenty-seven years ago and we lived what we lived in. We have an obligation for our children, for all the political forces of the country and for the Republic, to all put our little dough to open the digital landscape differently in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1013	The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1014	Mr President, I beg your pardon, I asked you to speak beforehand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1015	To me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1016	Yes to you. Excuse me if you don't understand me. I'm trying not to yell and make gestures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1017	I mean, I don't work. Let's raise your hand or send your reading in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1018	The Prime Minister spoke, Mr Papapas spoke and the President of the House spoke as well. On the position of the President of Parliament, we would like to make a contribution. I do not want to interrupt the President of the Democratic Association on the grounds of courtesy, but I would like to tell you that I need a three-minute later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1019	I understand and we'll give you the floor to place you, but I've already announced Mrs. Generation. In order to reach agreement, the President, Mrs Gemmas, will speak first, then Mr Leventis, as we have said, then three parliamentary representatives of Parliamentary groups, whose Presidents have not spoken, who have not been seated and who are glad to speak. It's no different. Mrs. Birthday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1020	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to express the sadness and deep grief of the members of the Democratic Group to the families of the three officers who lost their lives, but also to the great family of the Navy. On this occasion, I would like to thank the members of the Armed Forces, women and men, who, with great professionalism, devotion and sacrifice, serve their homeland. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, clear words. With this amendment you seek to ash the eyes of the world affected by your own policies, with a fireplace. Are we going to deal with farmers now? Are we going to deal with the young people? With the tie movement, as you call it ironic? With your schedule? With your memorial? With the anxiety about our country's stay in Europe and in the Eurozone as an equal member? With the agony for our country's stay in Schengen? Here we have the mother of battles, to be hit, supposedly, the strife, while in fact in an extreme anti-democratic and directly unconstitutional way you are trying to set up a convenient for you. You seek to control the landscape and harm the fundamental institutions of democracy. Why are you so scared? Because you see popular anger. Because it is true that you have swallowed all your words, all your promises, all your programming declarations. Your social and political isolation leads to spasmodic diversion movements. You're removing the story of interlocutory too. He got tired, masters of the government, people listening for many years constantly vaguely to an invisible strife that no one ever faces and calls. And don't pretend that you're dealing with the problem today. Not at all. If economic interests determine, in your assessment, the political life of the country, take immediate action against them, with clear content and we will be here to support. Because we want to get into the broadcasting scenery as well. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But there is only one way to do this, the constitutionally anticipated. The Constitution is clear. The responsibilities in this regard are specifically entrusted to the National Television Council. The provisions fall within the public administration section, because the PSE belongs to the state in relation to what you said before, Prime Minister. The Constitution, moreover, imposes on the issues of the regulation of the broadcasting landscape by unanimity or at least a large majority of the parliamentary powers. Your amendment, therefore, has a multitude. Ladies and gentlemen, what the government is trying today through Mr Pappas' amendment, which Mr Tsipras has of course already announced yesterday, is unprecedented. Prime Minister, this step reminds you of the entire Greek people a year ago, almost tearn up, to say how you are every word of this Constitution. What you have done all this time can be reminded of it, but what you are going to do today, bypassing a clear constitutional provision, so I want, with an unprecedented prick, to have no precedent and we must all take a clear position. We must warn you of what is going to follow, which will expose you irreparably, but with you and the country, because in essence all you will do is a hole in the water. There is no way that the procedure will proceed in the way you propose, even if the provision goes through, because it will be stopped by the institutions of the European Union. The National Television Council is the most important independent authority in the establishment of a democratic state. It was set up in 1989 with the agreement of all parties. In 2001, the institution came directly from the Constitution. Every obvious attempt, therefore, to materially reduce its responsibilities is annulling the constitutional safeguard. Now that your government's margins have narrowed down dangerously and the deadlocks are everywhere, now you are looking again for the barbarians. Without them you just can't survive. You are trying to find arguments - we understand - for your frustrated members, for your Members. You don't just care about landscape regulation. You are trying in a stubborn and craftsmanship to intervene in a very sensitive area. You try arrogantly to form a landscape that will be controlled by you. Who do you talk to about the new licenses you want to grant? What criteria have you decided on their number? What does it mean in the modern era of technological revolution and information four licenses? Where is that number coming from? Why four, not three or five, or eventually one? It would have been easier to control. How many and what working people will you send to their homes and under what pretext? So the only thing you can achieve with this proposal is the creation of even greater abatement. You open the way to a long process with legal complications. This is a sad fall. In view of your concern about the imminent collapse of what you have created, you are trying to avoid drowning and you are caught by your hair and the hair of all of us, the country and democracy. Take this legal abstraction back and come to the dialog table to regulate the landscape in the only way that is possible and fair: To properly form the National Broadcasting Council and allow it to do its part. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have a right and a duty to formulate very strict criteria for companies to be healthy, but you do not have the right to define this landscape. So come to your attention, because there is still time not to expose the country any more and to your obscene and finally rule. Take care of the big issues that are ready to break into your hands. Government or finally leave honestly and do not do any more damage in this country. In conclusion, I would like to make a very brief reference, but I think it is a very serious matter. We are very carefully following developments in NATO and its involvement in the refugee crisis. It is important that our country is not alone in this matter with a European Union that is delaying making decisions and is trying to hide behind Greece. We are a NATO member country and we have a role and a reason in the alliance and in the development of a strategy, but also in the operational arm. This is a very delicate and sensitive matter. That is why, in the first phase, we ask for immediate and detailed information on the crucial operational part from the Minister of National Defence and from the Prime Minister himself. At this stage and while NATO's operational planning is under way, it should be made clear to all tones and at all levels that NATO should not under any circumstances be used by the neighbouring country as a cover to record its unilateral claims. Greek territorial waters are and will be fully controlled and fully exercised by the country's sovereign rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1021	Thank you, Mrs. Birthday. The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1022	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this Chamber has become a theater of irrationality. We're doing what we don't understand. What do I mean? Let me tell you. I was invited two days ago to talk to the ERT and they had put around me a right-wing journalist and two-three of SYRIZA, one was from the Thessaloniki of SYRIZA and another two from SYRIZA. And at the time I went to explain what "government of technocrats" would say and how I wanted it, intervened and said, "But, the Prime Minister is given if he's a technocrat." And if he's a politician, he's great! And I was fighting to talk and they wouldn't let me talk. This is ERT, and this is your ERT, Mr. Poppa. Because if you had actually made democracy at the ERT, I could assume you might want to make democracy on the channels and if you are honest. I fought around 20 minutes to talk, they still wouldn't let me go. I'm saying after a long time you invited me and you won't let me talk. So we mean democracy, stop each other from speaking? And when the 20th minute ended, they put half an hour in Tsipras. They connected to the Ministerial Council for half an hour, Tsipra. And I watch here in Parliament too how it goes. Mr. Papapas spoke, Mr. Voutsi spoke, Mr. Tsipras spoke. We will now speak for fifteen minutes. I think 70 percent or 80% of the time is SYRIZA. Isn't that right? After the Minister speaks separately, Karugalos separately, Voutsi, etc., and everyone more than their time. This is how we understand isopoliticalism. While the magnanimity of a ruler is to balance time, even proportionally, not to speak tens of one, one of the other, etc. I put these as a reflection, because the ERT from morning to night is a lebanite. And I predicted he'd close again. And eventually you won't close the channels, Mr. Pappa. ERT's gonna close again. Take note of this forecast. You will not be able to close the channels, but the ERT will close, because what is one-sided and is also a livanist cannot survive in a democracy that is supposed to grow and move. You say who resists your opinions far-right. I am the only political leader I asked farmers to return home.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1023	And we said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1024	I don't know. I said directly: "Come home, it's pointless to fight in today's era. The time has passed when Andreas Papandreou gave farmers something." I was clear. While everyone else played it "a little and a little" to be liked. In any case, I was clear, and I said that there is the Centro Association in the House, in order to turn and say what it needs to say. It's not right to close the streets. It is not a solution for anyone, in order to achieve their own, to have an anti-social attitude. While you gentlemen, the people of Tsipras, when the farmers came out, were pleased and told to close the streets and if possible drop the governments! Isn't that right? I do not think you would have told them what the Centro Association says,'return to your homes and there is a Parliament, there are parties to represent you'. You have pleaded for their rebellion and for their uprising, and now you are reaping storms from the winds that you have sowed. For five years, since 2009, you have been against the Memorandum and on a nice night of July 2015 you understood that everything you said was incoherent and you went and signed. And what you signed in July changed them as the 'capital cloak' of the free professionals and farmers, who do not have a problem with the Katrugalos Act alone. I spoke on the roadblocks and saw that it was another problem: that production costs are high and that the disposal prices are efficacious. I mean, a farmer can have a turnover of 200 and 300 thousand and not go home! Did you hear that? Farmers do not consider it a solution to lower the rates. They're not uprooted for the coefficients. Their lives have become stressful. They can't live. Their lives are insecure, they're ready to leave abroad, they don't have to catch any more jobs. There are many farmers ready to kill themselves. There are also feudalists who exploit the rest. But you can't show the feudals to bow down to the great mass of farmers, who are people of labor and biopale. So, to farmers, the House, the government and the parties must be divested differently, to see what these people will be. How to relate disposal prices to production costs, which are particularly increased. See if there will in general be a future or an extinction of this profession. Because the way you do it will disappear. And while farmers have these uncertainties, go and increase premiums and taxes, as if it were time to exterminate them! On the subject of channels, I don't understand you. Why don't you just do the simple thing: put the rules in place, give 1 million a year for the public frequency of each channel, check if it pays IKA, if it pays an ad, if it pays the employees and those who don't keep the above to close. Shut them down because they don't keep them, not because you shut them down! The impact of Europe learning that Greece is closing channels that have been operating for over thirty years, have you thought about it? Another country did that? Has he booked channels? It is also a question of democracy and a matter of substance. Learning in Germany, the Netherlands, in America, that we are closing channels honoring you in this Chamber? You say 'they are intertwined'. What will you bring, saints?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1025	Hosius!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1026	"Saints" will bring, okay! If they were intertwined, why were you on their channels all day from morning to night?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1027	Tell them! They don't like it, but they do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1028	I don't understand what your goals are. I'm trying to understand. You're saying you're going to hit the truce and corruption. Is this complicated? I don't understand. So where are you going to find the good guys? Who are the good businessmen? Some of you are against entrepreneurship. The New Democracy, the Right, had made its choices that were disgusting and paid for it and said it was linked to the complexion. Are you gonna get better? Tell me a name to listen to it, say "He's nice!" Talk! The Prime Minister is talking about consensus, he invited us to the Presidential Palace to reach a consensus, and at the only point that the Constitution provides for consensus 4/5, you take it from the 4/5 that does not serve you and take it to 2.5/5. How can the Centro Association believe you for wanting consensus when the only point the legislature provides for consensus is that you take the jurisdiction away from there and take it elsewhere? In any case, I believe that the Greek people have come to its conclusion that your time is over. That's my opinion. They did not let me explain to ERT what a government of technocrats is going to say, because you say some misery - I do not say about you, those who say it - that if a Prime Minister is a technocrat, he is a donor. So what would a donor say? Isn't the House going to vote? Will the House not give a vote of confidence? So he's gonna be a dictator? We do not propose a dictator, we propose a prime minister who will enjoy Parliament's confidence. It is for Parliament to be called the technocratic donor. And I have said that the government of Papademos would be effective if it lived for two years, but then Mr Samaras had been caught by the "Kouzulada" - to say so - to want elections quickly. He thought he'd get 50% and get 18%. You remember them. We swore that government in November and Mr Samaras wanted an election on 20 January. In other words, we asked a technocrat in fifty days to solve the country's economic problem, which the politicians had created and bankrupt the country's economy. That's what Mr. Samaras was asking for. He was completely irrational. Of all Mr Samara's things, that was the most absurd thing. In any case, Mr Samaras was punished. But give him what does it mean? So if Mr Tsipras goes to the President of the Republic tomorrow and submits his resignation, why does he feel weak or why does he feel he is hostage four Members, five Members who may vote against the bills tomorrow and propose a name for a technocrat with a number of fifteen ministers of technocrats, will this government give us? Isn't the House going to trust her? I don't understand. Then one says: 'Why are we three hundred?' I heard this at the ERT, too. "Can't we three hundred become ministers twenty-five? Are we going to go outside?' But, as long as we have been addressing all these decades, we have seen the consequences! What were the consequences? Rusfetti, scandals, dishonesty! Not all people can be crazy and in this Chamber be acquaintances! We're just pretending we don't understand how society feels. If this Chamber had men honest and good, then it would not have been for the country to go into bankruptcy! There would have been the MPs who would have resisted. But for the chair, for the party interest you sacrificed everything. I am not addressing you, because there are also the previous ones who may have been the ones. But for technocrats, don't be ironic, because that's where we'll end up, a government of technocrats. Do you know why? Mr Mitsotakis will go to the European People's Party in a few days' time and they will pull his ears and tell him "vote the insurance!", what Mr Tsipras does, for me, is out of control. I heard him there at the ERT at the Ministerial Council and I saw a man calling them all far-right and intertwined. When a prime minister arrives to call all right-wing and intertwined, he has lost power from his hands. This Prime Minister exists because you are still applauding him for some. When this stops, he will submit his resignation. Do not doubt and laugh, because we can photograph ourselves in this Chamber and see developments in a few weeks' time, see who will be justified. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is for the good of the country to make a government serious, to sit two years, to speak honestly in society - why is what is lacking openness - so why not? Ego? It is not Mr Tsipras' defeat to lose power. It is brave, no matter how much you feel it is that your party will lose power. With George Papandreou, I disagree with everything. Those who said referendum were crazy. All that term, that he'll find money from China, from Russia, etc., resembles Tsipra's term and his party's facts. That's what they think. But the fact that he went one morning to the President of the Republic, and had more than a hundred sixty Members and submitted his resignation is an act of bravery, which we must recognise. And that's why I went up to Stepma today, to recognize that a Prime Minister who had the declared, went and hand over power. He felt weak, felt his mistakes, but he has the honesty and braveness to recognize his weakness. Here we have a Prime Minister who says he can do it alone. Negative messages continue from everywhere and he does what he doesn't hear! It tells far-righters all, farmers, free traders. They're all motivated! But when he was in the opposition he was next to them, he was always the first. This is not the conduct of a Prime Minister. It's not honest conduct. People listen, the same person who in your districts dare not see him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1029	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1030	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. Mr Papapas has the floor, then Mr Pafilis and Mr Papachristopoulos. Parliamentary representatives will speak because the chairmen of the respective parliamentary groups have not spoken. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1031	Mr President, first of all, before you put time, I would like to ask why you are giving me five minutes. In any case, I would speak five minutes as a parliamentary representative on the subject of ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1032	Okay. Five minutes came out according to programming, but we'll have a tolerance of time. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1033	Can I ask you something? When will we, Mr President, make the roll-call vote? Do you know that? What time are we going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1034	The debate can be closed with the speeches of the left-wing parliamentary representatives and Mr Tindemans, who asked the parliamentary representative to make an intervention, and Mr Spirtzi. So far, that's the picture I've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1035	Mr President, you consider it democratic...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1036	Mr. Poppa, I'm telling you, because you asked me that I would give you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1037	Mr President, do you consider it democratic and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House not to be the ones we voted 'at present' during the debate in the Commission on the ratification of the Ministry of Transport's agreement with Belarus? We've lost the ball. Today we are supposed to be talking about a ratification, an transnational agreement between Greece and Belarus, and the whole debate is, in fact, going to be, an amendment that is entering into this draft law, in this agreement. Mr President, since I am referring to the most important amendment on the licensing and licensing of television stations and the number of licences, I shall also refer to the ratification of the agreement with Belarus. I would like to say this: I have listened with great interest to the positions of both the political leaders and the President of this House, as well as to my colleague, Minister of State. I note that there is a pretext here today, a catastrophe for a tragic national incident and for the Armed Forces by political leaders. It is a pretext for regret when they go up to this Step and say to the Greek people and to Parliament "I express my pain" and so on. and when they then take the floor to talk about the amendment and the policies that we are discussing here, they make a humor of the worst kind at the wrong time, of hairdressing, etc. I am not saying this for you, Mr President, because I think that the President-in-Office was Mr Kourakis. I would like you to make an intervention - as sacred as it may be a political leader - and you must recommend and say that we need to be much more serious in this Chamber, here we are discussing it, it is not a television show or Mister Bean's show, to be charming and laughing, particularly at times that are so serious. And the meaning is, I think. In any case, I would like to say that I have listened with interest to Mr Mitsotakis, who even referred to the French Revolution in order to be able to substantiate his speech. Let me remind you that the French Revolution, to which you are all referring, was not a popular, bloodless revolution. It was a revolution, which first gave birth to a Bonaparte and secondly was a revolution based on guillotine, on blood streams, which drowned revolts in Vandea, etc. He told us how many newspapers were there then, finding a genius - well he did - to oppose the government. So I wonder, since one side said about the French Revolution, about the uterus of its ideology, how did the other side not speak of the October Revolution, the other uterus of its own ideology, the Left? The other party, the left government, did not have the courage to mention in its own revolution and also to mention how many newspapers were there during the October revolution. Was there only one, 'Iscra'? In any case, there has been a reference from her Chief so far, if you wish - because in future it will not be an officer of opposition and to the sacred totem of Parliament and democracy and the current constitution, the independent authorities. He said the various principles. But he forgot to mention a sinful authority, the Competition Protection Authority. Why didn't Mr. Mitsotakis refer to it? I say this because I have recently had the experience of attending and replacing my fellow Member, Mr Aivatidis, on this committee. Didn't he mention it because the chairman of this committee, Mr. Kyritsakis, is your man? And is he the man who does nothing about the food cartels, about the household shelf, and continues this sinful situation with the prices to which another political leader referred? In any case, that is not what we are talking about today. I would like to say that all that the Qualified Opposition has said is a pretext. Nothing has been mentioned - and that has rightly been said - about the main shareholder. And how should the Qualified Opposition report the case of Karamanlis and the main shareholder? Is it because they are the same people who, at the time, did not go through voting for the bill that Kostas Karamanlis then brought on the issue of the main shareholder and blackmailed Karamanlis to get it back? I also listened with interest to the Prime Minister. I would like to say very well to the Prime Minister that the pilots of the Air Force are not pilots. They're the pilots of the helicopter. They're not the pilots. Pilots say the ones in the Civil Aviation. And he rightly doesn't know because his military experience is too small. Served in the Navy, General. The Prime Minister must also show particular respect, especially today. The Prime Minister also spoke today in the presence - now they are gone - of the entire Ministerial Council. And I would like to ask the following question: should the Ministerial Council be here today in such critical times? At the moment, crazy and dirty games are being played, and on behalf of NATO, with regard to Greek sovereignty in the Aegean Sea, and the Ministerial Council is dealing - so important - with the government's licenses for television stations. We have no confidence in this government. And much more, we have no confidence when there is a member of the government - the dominance of the government - Mr Kammens, who has reached the indecent level of political leader and head of the Armed Forces, to say that today's agreement with NATO dedicates it to the fallen of the helicopter. In other words, he dedicated the tradition of Greek sovereignty to NATO to those who fell to protect Greek sovereignty in the Aegean. He made such a huge blow today, Mr. Kammenos. Will we possibly see him in the difficult times for the families, in the low-priced sequences, and by variant jackets to make his figure? Shame on you! That's all I have to say. We have no confidence in the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And I don't say it in opposition. And I shall end with that, Mr President. We have no confidence, because the slap in the German Minister for Finance was a slap not only to the Prime Minister. This "double" was not for the Greek Prime Minister. It was for the entire Greek people. And I wish there were Prime Minister of Greece who would have enjoyed the trust and trust of our opponents, if he stood up and responded as Greek Prime Minister, Prime Minister of all Greeks. He didn't. He proved politically 'nanos'. Another very short man, but great and with great heart, General Ioannis Metaxas - short was Metaxas - managed to unite the politician...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1038	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1039	Please, sir. What can I tell you? You're so low. Please. Did you do your great part now? Please. Please. Mr. President, do you presiding? This is where I'm interrupted, Mr. President. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1040	Who interrupted you? Mr. Brutsi? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1041	I don't know what it's called.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1042	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1043	Mr President, I would like to say that the Metaxas dictator - yes, Metaxas was a dictator - managed to unite all Greeks in the north-eastern mountains. The right-wing, royal, silky people didn't fight. The entire Greek people fought. While Mr. Tsipras, who was given a huge opportunity both with the referendum and with the talks with the troika and with the episode with Shoeble, proved to be a great and historic leader, he kicked this opportunity and seemed to be how small and how little he is, how high he is for the small and the small ones. Mr President, for us the old motto of the party you serve in the JRC is very timely. "What a Pope, what a Maker" they said at the time. If you want my view, much better the Plaster, much bigger general, much bigger politician. The same slogan as other names, but not in the same range - God! - it would be "what Samaras?" I guess Samaras is done. It would be: "What Mitsotakis, Tsipras". So is the same. Mr President, I am going to the case that concerns us today beyond permits. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about the issue we are meeting here today. The amendment is 'text' to ratification. I have a right to talk about ratification and I speak. So for the agreement between Greece and Belarus, we were placed in the committee with'residents'. We said'residents' not because there is not too much positive in this agreement between Belarus and Greece, but we said'represents', because there are also negative ones, and we did not say 'no'. Why didn't we say 'no' to opposition? Everyone must say no to the government. No, we have to say the right thing. We said 'present', because Belarus is a State satellite of the Russian Federation. We are interested in and we are expressing, I would say, the approach with the Orthodox nation, the Orthodox state, the Russian Federation and with this criterion we have voted'residents'. You will find us positive and we will work very hard on this approach, and we will not say that a politician of the New Democracy party, old Karamanlis, the problem with the ears, the deaf, called "the political thing is things that are done and not said and done". Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must finally do a national foreign policy and do things that will not be said. Because we saw the famous rapprochement with the drum impacts for political benefit that Costas Karamanlis had then made with Russia, which ended up. Make national foreign policy, find them with a nation with which they always connect us friendships, if you like, regardless of status. Let me remind you on the right that Stalin gave us the Dodecanese agreements. You know that. I see that you agree, you have moved the head of some colleagues. Let's talk about it. So find them with the great Russian Federation for the benefit of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1044	Before I give the floor to Mr Pafile, I can inform you that the two requests in the Bureau have been made - at least they had been expressed by a roll-call vote by both members of the SYRIZA and Members of the New Democracy. The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis, has the floor. Mr. Papachristopoulos will be followed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1045	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1046	Mr Papachristopoulos speaks as a Parliamentary representative, but in the position of the President of the Parliamentary Group, who has not been placed. After Mr. Papachristopoulos, Mr. Dendias has the floor for asking him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1047	If he wants to, Mr. Dendias can take the lead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1048	...and then, the two ministers, Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Tsironis, will have three minutes to four minutes and will be closed by roll-call vote. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1049	Because a lot is being heard - Metaxas, Papadopoulos, who the Pope raised a flag - I say, now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1050	I didn't say. Stalin, I said. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1051	Please, Mr. Pappa! You sounded quiet! Listen to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1052	Raise the flag to Crete of Judas! Retsinolad Metaxas, the Metaxas of torture, heard to sign the statement of repentance...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1053	Too bad you're wearing pants. You don't have the balls. I'll make you, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1054	Metaxas heard who...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1055	Mr. Pappa, if you would like, sit down and listen, as patiently heard of the entire Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1056	No, you don't have to, Mr. President. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1057	Not if he wants to sit down. Otherwise, let him go, as he said he wanted to get out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1058	So I say that the great patriot Metaxas refused the communists who asked to go to Albania. And not only did he refuse, but he handed them over to the Hitlerians. Those are the fascists! And they're going to purify themselves now! [[Applause]] He delivered Greeks to the Germans, to the Hitlerians. So what did he do next? Papadopoulos, who defended, was an officer of the Security Orders, responsible for collecting the harvest to Achaias for the German troops. It's them! And they're pretending to be nationalists! The Germans had the Nazis in their offices the other day, and they made it a gargora! [[Noise - protests from the Golden Dawn wing]] And they come here and sell us patriotism when Metaxas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1059	Are you going to tell the baby-sucking thing about, you little bitch? Gypsy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1060	Sit down now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1061	Now we're yelling, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1062	That's who you are! Put a hood on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1063	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1064	So they are the ones who are causing today and are trying to water the people with lotus juice!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1065	Gypsy! Hey, geek!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1066	Say more!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1067	But our people know you. It'll kick your ass again, no matter what you do. So they're coming out and telling us patriotic reasons, they're supposed to be, for NATO. What role did NATO play in the division of Cyprus? What role did the dictatorship play in the division of Cyprus? One of the main reasons for the dictatorship was that it was him and their political ancestors loyally served him. I say that to get to know each other and introduce ourselves in this Chamber. Let us now move on to the subject, to the amendment. Previously, we have been on constitutional issues on several occasions. We described all this hypocrisy - the disguised, in our opinion - as far as the urban constitution, which describes, for example, the right of all Greeks to work, as I said before and we have one and a half million unemployed, or which describes objective information and all the others and what we have been living in all the previous years is a tragedy. I do not want to go on in that direction. So what does the government want? First of all, it seeks a communication diversion, to change the agenda, because today we would expect the Prime Minister to talk about hot issues as well. Greece is on the way, workers, small and medium-sized farmers, professionals, young people. We waited for something to say. A hump about that! At the centre, anyway, are the great mobilisations of the Greek people for insurance, taxation, anti-grassroots policy, which is continuing and increasing and becoming more heavy. Instead, we have the subject of the channels. It is serious, of course, but some things had to be answered. I'm telling you, Mr. Pappa, and I hope the Prime Minister can hear it. Pick up some, because the play has seen it before. Nefeludis says the tractors are tanks. You're covering him. I think you should pick them up. Mr Falcon said that farmers are going for Grexit. We are not concerned with us, nor are we who define the forms of farmers' struggle and what some or some groups do. But I think you should pick them up. For the last time we say that, because it will multiply. And that makes sense to what you say. The logic of 'come into dialogue, but have tanks' or 'go to 'Grexit' and close borders' is not compatible. This logic has been experienced for too many years with both PASOK and New Democracy now coming out on the tiles. Didn't you blow the tires? That's a big success then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1068	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1069	I say, you, the PASOK. You weren't personally. I don't know, sir, if you have the vulcanizer skills. Wasn't the New Democracy accusing the farmers and those who set up the MATs everywhere? Now what's up with you all of a sudden? You got caught, because SYRIZA's policy gives you all. And you are now trying to use this policy as a laundry. Your right, of course! But the Greek people, we say again, must not forget and must not see what is happening today. I want to say one more thing. Here, beyond the two parties, we have hypocrisy. Mr Leventis comes out here, who plays a very specific role and proves - he will probably have lessons from Despina Papadopoulou, so they say, they write various - and he says: 'Go to the farmers in their homes'. I know what I'm saying, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1070	What? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1071	So I said that he asks farmers to go home, stop fighting, and at the same time he says that he supports their demands. So how will these farmers fight for their demands? From the house to the armchair or swinging the handkerchiefs? They find some forms of struggle. The second issue is the very serious one, which should be placed today by the government, which is the issue of NATO's involvement in the Aegean. It's huge. I analyzed it before. Here there is an open problem now, on account of the refugee issue, - I said it before, I do not want to repeat - question the country's sovereign rights. We have clearly called into question the country's sovereign rights and we know what we're talking about! I said I wouldn't mention any arguments, because I don't want to waste time. Secondly, there is a question of co-management of the Aegean, which is being promoted. And thirdly, there is the issue of the country's involvement in the imperialist pursuits for a greater war in the region for sharing prey among the great powers. And he had to talk about it. It's a huge and serious matter. Second objective: The government is moving quickly into the process of redistributing the media market and concentrating it on less hands. This will be done objectively. We are not going to go into this controversy. We have two blocks now: the government, which is trying to do what I said before, to put on new players, and the opposition that defends the current regime, which is unacceptable - and we have said it a very long time ago. But what is the common line, the common strategy - I would say - of both? They accept that the information of the Greek people, the channels will be in business interests. Do you disagree? We disagree radically. You, all of you, except for the JRC, say it's a merchandise the information. And since it's a merchandise, it goes to market laws, to business interests! I do not imagine anyone implying that working class, that farmers, small and medium-sized ones and others will build and set up some channels. These hands will go. And so the fairy tale, which is real, of intertwining, begins. The complexity of the complexion! One's struggling, the other's bringing in a new complication! The essence of interlocutory lies in the system itself. I told you before: Who has the channels? Who's got them? Aren't those who possess the wealth of the country? Are the sixty-five who hold half of the world's GDP do not have them worldwide? Don't they have the channels? The complexity is in the very nature of the system. And the complexion comes not only from the lisverization of politics, but also from the objective service of capital interests. Is anyone messing with them? Is anyone hitting this complication from the healthy exploitation of workers? Are there any other things? Of course, there are other things. Are there any transactions? Of course there are. These are in the game. Can a barbaric system function without pouring oil into the machine? Therefore, not to say that we are hitting the complexion. You have to stop saying this thing, we're hitting the complication. If you want to hit the argument, no more private interests. Social property, the means of production, the information to the people it produces, where it belongs. That is our view. The rest of what is it? It's gonna change Manolius and put on his pants. Some old people will come out unless they come out, and everyone else who gets out. Some young people will be placed on the market, whether domestic or international, or in cooperation. They're going to check the briefing again. Of course, I said this before, but you have not both answered that foreign companies are allowed to participate, which are exempted from the nominalisation of shares, which are imported on the stock market. Therefore, this issue of transparency goes off. You can't find anything! We'll have, he says, objective information. Are you serious? Mr. Poppa, you're a smart man. And I address the government, but also the others: Are you serious about the four licenses that the business groups will receive, we will make objective information? What are you telling us? What standards do you have? When we were talking about ERT, you told us that the standard you're thinking about, and you and everyone else, is the BBC. Didn't you say? What is "BBC"? Objective information? MI6 is on the seventh floor and controls what comes out every time. What is the objective information? The "CNN"? Here "CNN" set up films with exuberances to show the Iraqis who were delivered! What serves all the mathematics - why will Greece also be created, but on a small scale, of course - of the media? They serve the dominant ideology and not just! They are the ones who banned and criticised - to remember - on the Greek channels because they made the war against Yugoslavia a reality. It was them, wasn't it? Aren't you all supporting them? The ones who said that the Greek channels were badly projected? There was no observation on the channels 'why are you projecting NATO's barbaric acts of killing civilians, refugees, bombing with sterilisation bombs?' It was not 'CNN', 'FOX' and all the rest - I don't know what they're called! - What do you have as standards? What objective information? The system serves! And they serve it throughout all greatness and in all areas, as I said before. So let's just leave that behind. And you say about the European Union, how many permits it has. Are you really watching European channels? You guys need to keep an eye on them. I have been in the European Parliament for a few years. So have you watched European channels? So what are you going to tell us, with the permissions you're about to give, we're going to report Marx and Marxism lessons? They're gonna put the story down? They twist everything! They are setting up whole businesses - I mean propaganda companies - with millions who spend, to leave from the world's memory what has happened in the history of Europe as a whole, but also in the world as a whole. So what are you gonna do to them? Will you dictate them to have objective rules, to promote the barbarity of capitalism and to say that we need another society, a fair society, that the sixty-five cannot have these, that there can be no unemployed and hungry in 2015? Really, who are you telling? Are you going to modernise them? The others accept it, as they say. And they say it's like that, what to do, that's it! So will you bring in objective information? Who will gather on the four channels? Because that's the big question. Such business groups will gather! And those who are stronger will get them on better terms. And if need be, they'll give more to get others out of the way, not too much to get the profit - but that's too! - but mostly so that they can control the minds, minds of people. As far as the workers are concerned, are you protecting them? Because there's a lot of discussion going on. And the New Democracy suggests it as one of the arguments, it's cut! By voting for all the memoranda and overthrowing all the labour legislation, you have beaten all the workers and sent them to three hours, four to 200, 300 and 400 euros! And get out on the tiles! Mercy! The SYRIZA who promised to abolish all the above and what does he do? Does it keep all anti-virtual laws in force - yes or no? - they apply to the media and allow redundancies, etc. Secondly, there is no provision for permanent staff working with an establishment plan, with sectoral collective agreements between associations of journalists and technicians. That's right! There's no such prediction. So, jungle industrial relations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1072	There is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1073	There isn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1074	And there's a record!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1075	Let's see! Let's see the organograms and everything else. It's abstract. There is no obligation of compliance. The obligation to keep a certain number of workers is only at the beginning. They can change it along the way. They can change working relationships, etc. You know what's going on. They take two blocks, four hours and three hours. That'll be the situation. On the basis of this data and in order not to abuse time, we are not taking part in these economic and political games. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. For us it is secondary to who will give the permits, who will make the tender, that is to say, whether it will be 'independent' - within many introductory words - PSE or whether it will be the government. And you know, end the fairy tale. Does the ERR, the National Broadcasting Council, have decisive competence? So, can he not give permission? Oh, no! It's a matter of opinion! What are you shouting so much? And you, what are you shouting so much? Opinion expressed by the PSE, the government finally decides. And leave these and be more careful about these issues of unconstitutionalism - beyond that they are not standing up - or whether the government will give it away. The substance is different, which is why we are voting 'at present'. The substance is another, who will have the media in his hands - here is our radical opposition - and what will serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1076	But what does it look like, other than what's there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1077	We therefore vote 'at present' because we do not enter this game. And secondly, what can we do as a Communist Party of Greece? Try to defend the interests of workers, fight negative developments towards workers, reduce jobs, along with the trade union movement. We say, therefore, that information, frequency and all this is popular property. And information is socially good, it is not a commodity in the hands of the few, those who possess wealth and have power. That is why we say that all of these, channels, infrastructure and telecommunications must be social property, operate on the basis of the people's interests, the interests of the people, and not the interests of those who have wealth, the labour market must be controlled. But this certainly needs a radical overthrow, which is objectively mature, not because we want it, but are objectively mature, because what is coming out and the information sector is a monster toward children, workers and the whole world, because it defends a monstrous system that is now historically bankrupt. And in that direction we will strive to inform and convince the workers and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1078	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor. As I have said, Mr Denkias, who has asked for a moment's intervention and then two ministers for two minutes' interventions, will follow. And then there is a roll-call vote. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1079	Our ancestors said: 'The slow Criterion of Speaking'. I spoke forty minutes ago. It's just that the Chief of Independent Greeks, for reasons, I imagine favorable, didn't want to speak with this incident, and that's why I'm talking to the Rules of Procedure again. I would first like to remind you that there is a lot of noise for the independent authorities. The president of the previous term of office in the Independent Authority, the PSE, became alive. No laws and no rules were applied. I would also like to say that there were signs and monsters with the channels - and not only at the expense of my own party, but at all the parties in this House - and I have never heard the PSE protest. The world was plucking about the seas. No company was receiving funding, the only ones who received money were the channel owners and I never heard the PSE protest about the 2% they didn't pay, 20% in advertising, or when the deal was made with DIGEA, which lost the Greek public around 700 million. I say this because I too like independent authorities, but they are not really independent. I want to leave this matter a little and remind you of this. Uloff Palme, a Prime Minister who was not left - I do not know what 'tampella' would give him - as long as he governed his country, the country was a model of democracy with the literality of the word, it was a point of reference for all citizens around the world: Welfare, solidarity, real democracy. He was circulating free, comfortable, Prime Minister of the country, he was an easy victim and yet he has not been found who has murdered him. Why am I talking about Uloff Palme? There was then a system in Sweden better than the BBC. The people who criticized him were his best friends. It's a reference point. I say this because in this House - I am a new Member - I often see a controversy that we could have avoided. The designations dominate and not the arguments. I do not hide from you that I, at least, am prepared to listen to the hardest argument. I may disagree with him, but it may be an argument. I often hear characterizations. What for? I believe that we all have good sides in this Chamber and that we can cultivate them, that is, there is a minimum to coexist with decency in this Chamber. It made me a great impression of the "thank you" that Anastasiades' party told Cyprus - a great "thank you" - in the Civic Opposition and all of the opposition, because it helped to come out of the memorandum. This was done in Cyprus, in the small Cyprus. I'm saying these, because I think the acidity is getting explosives in this room. I will not abuse time, Mr President. As far as I'm concerned, I'll try as I can, with all the powers I have. Because in this Chamber, I do not want to say too much, not to say the word 'Greek' - very remarkable people. If you think of them and bring them to your mind, I think you'll be more restrained. I don't want to say names. I want you to allow me to leave the PSE a little bit. I will just say that I have listened with great respect to the Chief of Officership to set examples of how many newspapers and other things could be. One argument is this and it is respected, but we have a different view. I believe that television with regard to the four frequencies is not about the market. It is about democracy - and I call it emphatically. It's about democracy. It's a difference we have. I just want to remind you of the example - I said it, but perhaps it was not understood - that the market was the one that has achieved sixty-two people - left Mr. Pafilis? - to have assets as much as three and a half billion poorer on the planet. This has been achieved by the market, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not forget. I'm closing the parentheses now. It is therefore a question of democracy, of parliamentary democracy and nothing more. I would like you to allow me to leave this subject a little, if I have a little time, and to say this, because tomorrow farmers come to Athens and there is a lot of noise. I think most of us in here are peasants. And I've grown up in a village. I love these people, I respect them, I've won a lot of them. I can't believe no one's instigating them. I believe that seven years of recession are capable of rising and dead underneath, not only the farmers, but the entire Greek society. That is why the word 'incitement' to me at least doesn't suit me. But I want to say this: because I live in Corinthia, there is my home, my village, I pass through Isthmos and I talk to them. So when I mentioned to them and told them: “Find children, sit down, today the papers show you that you are ninety thousand. If the register is applied - because I am a doctor and I have farms and I am going, but I am not a farmer - you stay around the seventy thousand. Do you not want to make this clear?' I was told 'yes'. Secondly, importantly, I would like to say to them: 'The farmer's card, which you are going to go to the bank, to find ourselves in consultation, to see it - which will guarantee you liquidity and all that. Isn't that a reasonable argument? Isn't it something that we should fight?' They said 'yes'. Thirdly, I say to them: "You're selling 1 euro your product here and I buy it at 100 km 7 euros. The average price of the producer with the consumer is 1 in 3,5. Should we not fight this, which has been perpetuating decades, and will it give you profits?' They said 'yes'. Fourthly, I say to them: 'About the bachelor. You have uninsured workers, you have them, they pay, they do and nobody collects. We'd make more than 150-200 million. Do we not want that?' You're respectfully informing them that it's the only fund the OGA, which from the state budget gets 90%, while all the other funds get just 50%. Let's see it, guys, with grace. I'm saying that. Words, such as: "loving", "flooring", "flooring", are incredible things. Is there a common place to find them? I think there is. They have fair demands, indeed. When they say they do not know next year what they will receive from either the Russian embargo in Ukraine or because of the natural disasters, they are right. That's what we need to see. What do I mean? I think with good intention that this can be solved and solved. I've already seen how the Apostle has adapted - I don't know if he's here - who really has done a great job, in my opinion. And I say to them, "Hey, guys, is it a reasonable thing to say, is it a reasonable thing to say, does the Prime Minister say to us to come and find them" and say "no"? It doesn't fit. Don't get carried away. I believe that logic will prevail. Sobriety will prevail. A solution will also be found with the free professionals, where Katrugalos reached a 50% income discount of up to 10,000. There's a lot more to agree on. Let's see, no objections. I agree. I think, however, that this is all resolved by dialogue. I am optimistic, and I say this - and I end with this: in this marathon that the government has entered, we have squatters. We have pleasant times, we have unpleasant times. It's a marathon for tough players, hardcore players who have one and only weapon, to be honest. And I have often heard the words'lie' and'liar'. That's your right. Objection, not just that for him. And I'm one of those people I've made self-criticism about the excesses that have been said in January. I've said it fifty thousand times. It's not bad. But you know, they were elections in September. There was no exaggeration there. There's a certain deal. I do not blame those who voted for it. Let's say whatever they want. They're judged. This is the third time the government has been called upon to implement it. Why are we all forgetting that elections were held in September and we are constantly invoking the arguments of January? What I want to say and end: I believe that the evaluation will end positively. I believe, however much this project is played, that the debt will enter the table. I believe that the country with the conditions it is now, even though there is a globally negative situation, will become a point of attracting investment funds - that is my prediction - if we make good use of the billions in four development packages: Yonker, relaxation of Draghi, 20 billion from the low surpluses and the NRP, which is currently running with the best omens. It's not too optimism. It's the reality some people work hard in here! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1080	Thank you to Mr Papachristopoulos and to the economy of the speech. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1081	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. I want to talk about Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1082	Here you go. On staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah, it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1084	Excuse me. Mr. Tendia, you will be patient, please. Two minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1085	Give me two minutes and maybe less. Mr Palis for my absence told me, because I told the farmers to go home, that the various industries, in other words, shut down the roads, shut down the streets, and Andreas Papandreou gave us what he gave us and turned happily and suggested - and this is the position of the Central Association - that the various branches should not have antisocial behaviour, that is to say, shut down the roads, block taxes, block the state - does not express us, we as a party have this view - said, so that we are like Despina Papadopoulou, the dictator the woman, who said, on the one hand, "we are with the farmers" and on the other, "we must go home". And he says, "How will there be a fight if we don't close the streets?" I beg the KKE, which is still in Stalin's time, not to forget that he did a government with Mitsotakis in '89. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1086	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1087	Thank you, Mr President. I shall try, ladies and gentlemen, to be brief. The time is, after all, too advanced. First of all, I would like to ask the wider Left to the national delegation. I think it is wise, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid historical over-simplifications. And why am I saying that? I've heard Mr. Paphie's position before. You know, regardless of his historic course and his cartoons, Ioannis Metaxas is the one who promoted "OTI" to Nazism and Fascism. Giving this away, then, on Golden Dawn is wrong. If you need to find a historical analogue of Golden Dawn, you need to find it on General Tsolacoglou, who signed the conspiracy in Votonosi. And if you want to know who signed it, he signed it to General Zep Dietrich, who was the chief of the division "Adolf Hitler". That's to be a little careful. From there on, we go to the things that concern today and not yesterday. We talked a lot about unconstitutionalism here. I would like to say, first of all, that he made me an alpine impression - and I am sure, even if he cannot give an opinion, that he has made an alpine impression in the Bureau of Parliament too - that the SYRIZA parliamentary group or some of the SYRIZA Members have tabled a motion for a roll-call vote, not waiting for a decision of the national delegation on unconstitutionality. I think that fundamental respect for the Rules of Procedure requires that we decide first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1088	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1089	Let's decide first about the constitutional...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1090	I wonder. You're not watching?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1091	Why are you excités tonight? Secondly, I noticed Mr Katrugalou's position. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is not right. To make judicial decisions and to read in the national delegation what suits us. I am presenting for the record the entire decision of the Council of State, which was read by the Minister of State, Mr Katrugalos. For one thing, I have passed it with a yellow marker, to see it - "especially in terms of broadcasting stations, the constitutional legislature, bearing in mind the wide range of..." etc., "... in accordance with the provisions of Article 15(2) of the Constitution, ensures that specific purposes of the public interest are served in their operation. The audit shall include both the granting of the authorisation,...’. He's on the phone. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is not nice to read what suits us, but, in addition to that, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, Mr Papapas, is actually present in the Chamber as the 'archangelos', as the'mess' of the cleanness of the political system, and he has come to accuse everyone a little - very much as an intertwined person of himself, urged us, praised us, in part he exalted us. I ask: what's all this about? What is the position of the New Democracy, Mr. Poppa? What's her position? Did we tell you we don't want to cooperate in the competitive process? The President of Parliament is here, who specifically asked me a question during the Conference of Presidents. One thing we tell you only and I tell you directly and I tell you by looking into you in the eyes: we do not trust you and we do not trust your Government. We do not accept you as judges, how many licences must be granted. And what do we tell you, Minister? We are telling you together to leave the responsibility for the competent body, the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1092	You don't respect the House that decides?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1093	And who, Minister, has serious reason for the composition of this Council? Do you not have the relevant majority in the Conference of Presidents? Don't you have one? Most of the members elected, if we agree, will not be in your ideological space, even if they are not party members, but if you wish, let them be party members, it is not our concern. Why do you deny the self-evident? And why you're putting us all on an adventure. And if you want, why are you going across from the National Representation? Why keep for yourself, upon you, the absolute knowledge that you must decide how many channels and under what terms? Why are you doing this? Why do you ultimately demand our trust? We don't give it to you, Mr. Poppa. We don't give it to you, to be clear about it. This government has failed for twelve months to gain our trust. Partial appointments, legislative acts, favorable occupation, these are what you have shown. [[Noise in the Chamber]] That's what you've shown. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because it's good to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about four or five or sixteen channels, when world history occurs in the country. Because I have to tell you that I never thought there would be a moment when I would see a left party sign a request for NATO to come to carry out police duties in Greek territorial waters! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And read the NATO announcement, which refers to joint request yours and Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1094	It's a provocative thing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1095	It's all your placement lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1096	You're very welcome. Mr. Teddy, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1097	I'm glad I woke you up, but calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1098	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1099	And it is wise tomorrow for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to come here and bring us this joint request of Greece and Turkey to NATO under German command. Because we want to see it. This joint demand that we Greeks and Turks have made to bring NATO's vapours with a German commander in the Aegean Sea we want to see it and read it, see what it says. Let's see what it means to the left for the first time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to be informed, ladies and gentlemen, we did not take our tail out. From the first day of your days as government we came and offered you our help. And we told you everything we have, whatever experience we have, whatever help you want in migration we are at your absolute disposal. And we knew about the game when we took over. Because before we take over - and I present the Schengen report - the Samara Government will then see the remarks. And I am tabling the Schengen report six months later, where it says that because of the shield operation Greece has ceased to have a problem in the Schengen area. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Let us tell you what's going on. But do you know what level you're at? Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1100	Please be quiet. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1101	On 3-12-2015, ladies and gentlemen, I put a question to the Minister of the Interior, to which I say to him that the subject is being raised in the Schengen area for Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And on 22-12-2015, that is, fifty days ago, do you know what your Government answered me about the risk labelling for our country? It answers me: 'Our country has not only been threatened by Schengen but has, on the contrary, accepted congratulations because, despite the enormous difficulties caused by the influx, it responds in the best way'. And then we met where we were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1102	Where are we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1103	Don't you know we're in danger?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1104	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1105	Who are we at risk from, Mr. Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1106	Would you allow me to wake you then? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I'll tell you right away. May I finally wake you up and tell you what you have done and what have you achieved? You have achieved this in twelve months: First, you have brought NATO with a German commander as a police officer in the Aegean Sea. Yes or no? Secondly, you have made Mr Erdogan 'Sultan' and Europe and all the Heads of State are forced to go to Erdogan to beg him. Yes or no? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have made Skopje the fence of Europe and you have put our country at risk from immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1107	Mercy! You're talking to the Greek Parliament! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1108	Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1109	If you don't know this, then you don't even know where you're standing or where you are. But anyway, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1110	Will you stop, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Tendia, I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1111	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no channels today. That's between us. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish we could live in times when the country could withstand mistakes, failures, amateurism, arrogance, arrogance, one-party attitudes, excellence, idealism. But the country can't handle this. That is why I invite you, with this opportunity, to find a way of understanding. Admittedly accept the New Democracy amendment to the PSE - it is a very good start - and look together at the great problems of the country. Because you, after a few months, perhaps much earlier, will not be in the government, but the problems will be here and we will have to resolve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1112	Mr. Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1113	Mr President, I would like to make a speech to Mr Tindemans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1114	Please, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today because of the mourning of the Armed Forces I decided not to speak. I am sorry that Mr. Dendias has asked for details because it seems that the New Democracy is not in agreement with her. After leaving the NATO Summit, I contacted Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, who has appointed the Head of Foreign and Defence of the New Democracy. I had a conversation with her... Mr. Teddy,... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Dendia, I've been talking to her for thirty-five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1116	Are you dealing with me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1117	I think you're not Bakoyannis unless you've changed your roles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1118	Everything can happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1119	I spoke with Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, sent by your President to the Ministry of Defence, to be informed about the discussion of the articles. I informed her of the entire text, which is confidential, as I owed as Minister of National Defence to the officer in charge of Foreign and Defence Policy. Mr Kumoucasos - who is now leaving - had no information and made a number of strange statements. I would ask you, first of all, to consult each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1120	I expect to take the floor on staff immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1121	Mrs Bakoyannis' answer was that the talks which took place are in a positive direction. He thanked me for informing her. And because she was in Germany, I asked her to contact the German side, in order that some details relating to the relations between Greece and Germany in this company would be clear. Anyway, I respect the Greek Parliament and respect you and your role. I understand that the New Democracy no longer has communication between it. I shall therefore inform you - if you want to do so - and you, without saying anything, which, as you are aware of as former Minister of National Defence, I am not publicly allowed to mention. I can assure you, therefore, that the agreement which has been mutually accepted by all countries - NATO members - this morning during the NATO defence Council and the Secretary-General - is about the development of the SNMG 2 naval force in the Aegean region, having accepted all Greek positions. Paragraph 4 specifically states that in the event of a rescue, i.e. rescue of people who come from Turkey, all these, regardless of whether they are refugees or immigrants, will be automatically promoted in Turkey. The Greek forces, which will participate in the Natali force, according to a public statement by NATO Secretary-General and German Defence Minister who had taken the initiative, will operate in Greek territorial waters and in Greek airspace. Turkish forces participating in this force will only attempt in Turkish territorial waters and in Turkish airspace. It is quite clear that it is absolutely respected. As far as coordination is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1122	The Turks are questioning our airspace. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1123	Please, Mr. Tasoula, he's not Mr. Fusas here. Please, please, be quiet, finally, once. Quiet. Decide who will speak on behalf of the New Democracy at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1124	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1125	We will therefore inform you that, as far as research and rescue is concerned, there is absolute respect for the relevant research and rescue centres and this is included in the agreement for which your party has been informed through your responsible partner. I would also like to say to you, because I heard Mr Kumucaco say a number of scenarios this afternoon, even though your party had been informed, regarding the administration of the Armed Forces, that the force is currently under German command. The next scheduled takeover of the administration was from Turkey. In order to exclude Turkey, therefore, we agreed, as we informed your party at the same time as during the talks, and we exempted from the administration and Greece and Turkey during business. I would also like to tell you that they have been absolutely guaranteed - and I can assure you that - some classified issues. I am at your disposal to inform you whenever you want to the Ministry of National Defence, as I have informed the President of the Association of Centres Mr. Leventis, and from PASOK Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Theodorakis, and the Communist Party of Greece about some secret issues, that everything that the Greek side has requested and I mean our permanent representative in NATO, the military commander of NATO, the staff, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would therefore ask you very much to have an agreement on issues relating to national issues. I know that you know, as former Minister of National Defence, that there are things that I cannot announce to you, but I assure you as Minister of National Defence and not as Chief of Independent Greeks, as a Greek citizen that Greek sovereign rights are fully guaranteed, the issues of research and rescue are absolutely guaranteed and I would like to ask you today to respect that we have lost three officers. I'm sure you have the responsibility to accept what I'm saying. Tomorrow morning I am waiting for you in my office, like all the parties, to be properly informed and, of course, in the Committee on Foreign and Security, when she is convened and asking for information, I will be at her disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1126	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Dendias had asked for the floor for a minute. Then Mr. Loverdos himself asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1127	Mr President, only left you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1128	Excuse me. We can't hear you. One by one. What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1129	The Minister behind Mr. Spirtzi, do you see him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1130	There's another Minister after Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1131	First of all, I have never called into question the patriotism of anyone in this Chamber. Therefore, Minister, I am certainly not going to question yours, nor am I going to question your willingness to defend national interests. But you will allow me to tell you that you were involved in a debate that was not the question that you answered. You responded to an operational plan. Whoever it is, if you consider that you do not want to announce it here, I will respect your judgment, as I am sure you would respect mine or any other colleague. The question, however, is not that and it is not about you, it is not even about your party, if you like. The question, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, which has been raised is as follows: did the Government, which is part of the SYRIZA, have submitted a request to NATO, yes or no? If the SYRIZA Government did not submit a request to NATO and if NATO did not decide to operate under a German commander, then I was wrong to address the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in this way. The reality is, however, that this has happened. And here we have this obvious oxymologue: those who, a few months ago, were addressing this side of the House with demands of the type "ministers" and "German germans" are asking the German side to come to command fate in the territorial waters of Greece in the Aegean for any reason, Minister. That's not the conversation. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, this with your ideology how is it compromised?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1132	Do not address the Members. Your questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1133	How is NATO compatible, Mr President, to be the police officer SYRIZA chooses to protect the country from migratory flows, when SYRIZA has refused to implement a business plan by which Greek forces, without the need of any foreigner, could defend the national area. Can you tell me how they reconcile, ladies and gentlemen? Is NATO better than the Greek forces?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1134	The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panos Kammenos, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1135	Mr President, this government is a government of cooperation between SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1136	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1137	So the government, in public last week at the meeting of defence ministers, at the informal meeting in Amsterdam, as we announced in public, made a proposal on which we had already reached agreement with your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1138	The problem is not my party, it's your partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1139	Wait a minute. The proposal by Mrs Bakoyannis on the visit with Mr Davakis and Mr Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1140	Again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1141	What was that proposal? This proposal was for FRONTEX to be able to attempt in Turkish territorial waters to prevent those people who are drowning in the Aegean Sea from escaping. And we made this proposal. The result of this proposal is Germany's initiative, which he said? He said that FRONTEX - as Mr Avramopoulos said - is not a coastguard. Until he's a coastguard within the next few months, he can't attempt. Germany has therefore proposed a debate in order to enable NATO's power to be activated. NATO's power is not German ruler indefinitely. Different countries. Greece also assumes Turkey as well as France and other countries. So what was the proposal? That once there is a large flow of immigrants and because of the pressure on the Syrian side, NATO can monitor, identify, warn and cooperate with the coast guards of the two countries. That is, instead of people entering and drowning on the coasts of Asia Minor, coming to Greece, instead of being ten thousand children, we have to force Turkey to take its international role, take back the people who start from its coast and not weep people. That is exactly what Germany's proposal we discussed yesterday in NATO together with Turkey and accepted by all the NATO member states. This power is commanded alternately by all NATO member countries. For God's sake. Where did you see German-led power and so on? I would like to ask you: let us discuss the channels today, let us say about the complexion and the advertisers, let us see who served who. And when it's time to discuss national issues, here we are. The government is united, there is a common line of SYRIZA with the Independent Greeks. We represent the Greek people and we will answer you whatever you want. We have never been 'German gypsies'. We have been and exist as a government serving the Greek people. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] You're laughing. I'm sorry you're laughing. I would like to know if you are in agreement with each other and if you can understand that on the one hand Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, your party leader, visits the hot spot and says congratulations on what is being done and we support the government, Mrs. Bakoyannis says congratulations on the decision you took and is in the right direction and the other day they come here in the evening to express different views? At last, get in touch with each other. We agree and rule the place for the benefit of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1142	Did he ever say congratulations, you liar?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1143	Will you be quiet to come to an understanding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1144	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1145	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1146	Will you let me go? Would you please sit down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1147	I won't sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1148	Won't you sit down? Really? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let's set a row. Mr Kumucaksakou has asked for the floor on personal grounds. Mr Theocharis asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1149	I asked for the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1150	Mr President, I, too, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1151	You, Mr. Loverdo, said you would speak after Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Theocharis has asked now. What can we do? I'll give you the floor, as I said, after Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Pappas is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1152	Mr President, I asked him a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1153	What do you mean earlier? Mr. Kumoucaskos raises a matter for staff. You, as a parliamentary representative, want to be placed in something. You'll have the floor, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1154	I want two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1155	But, Mr. Poppa, did I refuse to give you the floor? You need two minutes, I'll give you two minutes. You need three minutes, I'll give you three. No one refused you. We need to set a order, as the parliamentary representatives have said or asked to intervene. Mr Kumucako, you have the floor on staff for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1156	For the first time I have seen the Minister of National Defence fleeing because, apparently, he knows what questions he will be asked to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1157	He left like a rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1158	Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Take a look at a movie in the last few days. Mr. Erdogan is speaking with Mrs. Merkel.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1159	Is that the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1160	Don't interrupt me, Minister, because you know what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1161	Is that the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1162	Don't worry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1163	Please do not interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1164	Don't worry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1165	You understood your mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1166	Don't worry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1167	Carry on, Mr. Kumucaco. I expect to hear the personal matter. Mr Kumucako, you have asked for the floor on staff. What's personal, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1168	The banker fled the Minister of National Defence said today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1169	Has he personally referred to anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1170	Of course, Mr President. He said that today, by officially informing the political authors that cover the New Democracy, I said strange things. So let's see what weird things I said. Firstly, I said that this is a very serious matter. And it is extremely serious because the Atlantic Alliance is involved in the Aegean Sea, in an area extremely sensitive to national interests, without Greece being informed in time. And, please, just watch for a little while what's happened over the last few days, within a few 24 hours. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1171	Mr. Kumucaco, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1172	Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Erdogan meet. They decide to have NATO's operation in the Aegean Sea. On the same day the Commission comes in and says 'I agree'. Immediately after that, NATO says 'I agree'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1173	Now that's personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1174	That's a placement, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1175	President Obama says 'I agree'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1176	Mr Kumucaco, you have put out the on-the-spot report you have asked for. Please stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1177	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1178	You put the matter on your staff. I think I gave you plenty of time and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1179	They're bothering what's heard. Where was the Prime Minister? When was Greece informed? All twenty-four hourly decisions were being made for Greece, and the Prime Minister was informed by the telephone what had been agreed. Mr. Tsipras suffered a terrible diplomatic defeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1180	Mr. Kumucaco, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1181	Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel comfortable with what has happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1182	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1183	Give me three minutes, Mr President. Because we don't have to say much today. I will try again to talk about their substance, in particular about the amendment on the channels. We must finally get back to the issue of the bill. Three things one has to say: Firstly, the current situation cannot be tolerated any longer. This is a situation which has favoured triangular relations, which are suspected and which is not correct. They're not right. Do you disagree that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1184	Please don't interrupt. Mr Theocharis, look to the Bureau or to the Ministers. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1185	Three quarters of the Prime Minister's speech I could have said it myself. Because in three-quarters he was just describing a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1186	Please! Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1187	Next year, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1188	We're going to give an extension in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1189	I was saying that three-quarters of the Prime Minister's speech I could have said it myself. I don't disagree to the slightest. Loans without collateral, protection of policies from the instruments themselves, which are borrowed through banks. This situation must be over immediately. Secondly - the second point we have to say - does the government have a solution? Oh, no. The government brings a solution that does not go ahead and will not go ahead with its own responsibility. He wants not to move forward and try to put responsibility on the canals, on the opposition, on everyone other than her. It brings a technical report, which says that it must be four channels. If the technical report is enough, why doesn't it give it to the PSE? What is the political issue that the House or the Minister decides on? He has to leave the ER. It is provided for by the Constitution. It's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1190	Read it again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1191	It brings a report, drawn up, among other things, by an Italian advisor to the Italian Government for broadcasting. And what does the report say to us? That in Corfu we have a dispute with Italy and the Italian frequencies and ours must be undone. And it also tells us this report to gather on our frequencies and not to be confused with Italy. Good! We should also get a Turk to tell us about the problems of frequencies between Evros and Turkey. Third, it makes reasonable automation. He's doing reasonable acrobatics. This report...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1192	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1193	Will you let Mr. Theochari speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1194	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1195	On your back, say that. Right behind you is the cause, Mrs. Jufi. Behind you is the reason that he is continuously and rightly calling for an extension of his time of intervention. I'm so sorry. And if you were either Mr Theocharis or any other speakers, you would ask for the same. Because that's why you ask for the same step. Just like you don't want to interrupt, so don't interrupt! To be explained. Mr. Theochari, finish in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1196	Mr President, thank you. I'll be done in two minutes. I don't want any more time. It could be with this same report by the government with two private antennas - not three - as the government decides, two public and two private ones, has sixteen such as the current channels, eight such as today's and two upgraded or the four upgraded ones chosen by the government. So the government chooses to give four permits and closes the channels, because it wants to be involved. And we close with the proposal, because in Potami we are never just criticising, but we are making proposals. No number should be set. They've got to get rules in here. For example, if a channel has two uses of damage, it cannot be further borrowed and owners should put the money on the losses that have been accumulated in these channels. That's how the complication will stop. It must not be possible for channels to continue injuriously and to be divested and not borrowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1197	Come on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1198	If you did so, then you would have the rest of the Parliament and the Greek people. The Greek people, however, see that you are in a position to deal with it and pursue it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1199	Thank you. I will now give Mr Pappa the floor. Then Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Loverdos, because he asked for Mr. Spirtzi, then Mr. Tsironis, and we will close the meeting. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for two-three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1200	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1201	Mr President, I too request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1202	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1203	They're shouting here. "Mr. President," they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1204	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1205	No, there is no 'Mr. President'. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1206	Mr President, this evening, in one night, a debate on the amendment and the positions of the political leaders, the parliamentary representatives, a strange night, which reminds us of that famous night, the night after Imia, which Kostas Simitis said: 'We thank the Americans. A lot of similarities. Unfortunately, history repeats itself. In the position of Arsenis, even though the burden is different - we have Mr Kammenos. We have Mr. Kotzia at the post of Pangalou. How many similarities! Mr President, the revolution of 1821, which took place for national independence and social justice, led to a Greek protectorate with three power guarantors. You, the government, have today, with the famous agreement that Mr Kammens has fascinated, managed to make it twenty-seven. The twenty-seven other NATO members! We say no to NATO. We are the political force that says that the European Union and NATO are the tombstone of Greece. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yeah, we're saying no to NATO. We don't want NATO domination in our Aegean. We want Greek sovereignty in the Aegean. And you, gentlemen of the left, are the ones who yelled at with the fist 'EEC and NATO the same union'! You laugh, because it's nice - I said it in the morning - the smell of money and the color of gold. For thirty silvers you have sold your ideology if you ever had ideology. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I am offended today by Mr Kammenos's position. It insults me, not as a parliamentary person or as a politically-occupied party, as a human and as a Greek, because Mr Kammenos, instead of coming here and saying a big apologies, because he dedicated the agreement to NATO - I said before - in the memory of the three fallen, he told us all these nice secrets, and so on, making his own image and fleeing. Shame on you! [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I look forward to Mr Kammenos being briefed, because he said he informed the sister of the President of the New Democracy, as responsible for foreign and defence policy. There are other foreign and defence officials in the Greek Parliament, Mr Kammene, if you see us from a closed television circuit. I shall close, Mr President, by that, because much has been said about General Metaxas, who then united the Greeks, right-wing, left-wing and so on. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I mean the following. He said: 'We are not giving Metaxas to the Golden Dawn Nazis'. So, is he Mr. Dendias with Metaxas? Is Mr. Dendias with the right-hand-handed elevated right, as he was then, if you like, and the situation in the inter-war years? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1207	Mr. Pappa, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1208	It's not. Mr. Dendias is probably with the tunnels and the pound in Israel.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1209	Mr Spirtzi, you have the floor for a maximum of three to four minutes. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1210	Mr President, I need a little more time to explain to Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1211	No, we do not want any more, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1212	It's all right, Mr. Brutsi. You never wanted to. You didn't even want to be Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1213	We do not want any more, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1214	Mr. Brutsi, don't yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1215	First of all, let me express...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1216	Mr. Spirtzi, I think we've come to an agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1217	Symposium of trade unionists! You've taken over the offices!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1218	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1219	Mr. Brutsi, please! Do you want to come here? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1220	Do you know who the Minister is? He took possession at the offices and didn't let the retired people get retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1221	Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1222	I took possession at my fund office and you never accepted us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1223	Mr Minister, we had contacted him, as with Mr Tsironi for three minutes, at least four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1224	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1225	Mr. Brutsi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1226	Mr. Brutsi, what you're saying is honoring me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1227	I'm telling you, Minister, because you should be ashamed of what you did before!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1228	Keep going! They don't bother me at all. I'm very honored.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1229	Mr. Brutsi, what expressions are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1230	You put cementstones outside the engineer's office...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1231	No, the President you put in the bars so we wouldn't get in. We weren't building. The president you put in, put irons so that the prisoners wouldn't get in, because he was afraid. I would like to express my condolences to the families of the Navy officers who have been lost to duty and to return to our issue. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, three and a half months ago, the law on the licensing of television channels was discussed and passed. It would be useful to remember what we were hearing at the Civic Opposition at the time. We have heard that we have the possibility of dismissal of channels and we want to fade - allegedly - the independent, neutral and objective television stations today. Today I imagine you read the report. The exhibition of the University of Florence refers to a specific number of channels for a specific transmission of television channels. So, just as we supported a few months ago, there are six multipliers for the broadcasting of private television stations, the two of which have been laid down by the laws, which you have voted on for the transmission of regional channels. Each multiplier can transmit two high-resolution TV stations. To transmit three to four channels, as other opposition parties say, it means that a channel will transmit with high resolution and the rest in too low a resolution, or we will oblige the broadcasting of the television signal to press. Also, another solution, which exists, to have more private channels broadcast, is to fall "black" into ERT and to give the two multipliers of public television to "DIGEA". This is another solution. Also, according to the report and in line with the European Commission's planning for the single digital market, part of the digital spectrum we have today for television broadcasting, Internet wireless services by 2020, should be given. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today we can use four multipliers by 2020 for television channels and two after 2020 for the terrestrial digital broadcast of all over Greece. I mean, we can do four high-resolution channels. So for a television channel that will be licensed for ten years, which is an investment with facilities, specialised staff, specifications, what can we tell them in three or four years, in 2020, that they cannot emit? That is what we are going to do with licensing, or are we going to pay fines again, because we are not in line with the Community directive or with the Community regulations? However, let us say that we are bypassing the planning of the European Commission. The Greek Parliament and the Greek people must be informed. There was a competition for a specific frequency range for mobile telephony. The Greek State received from this competition about 380 million. The range of frequencies for terrestrial digital broadcasting, i.e. television, is much greater. It is the well-known competition by the ECTB, the Independent Authority, and received 18 million for a larger range. If you calculate the revenue difference and the frequency range, you will find that the Greek State receives 1/15 out of the frequencies for broadcasting television channels in relation to mobile and online services frequencies. Therefore, the two multiplexes which constitute 1/3 of television frequencies, which we can have as television up to 2020, must be used for other uses. And, of course, instead of the EUR 6 000 000 we get for the two multipliers, according to the competition you make for mobile telephony, we should take EUR 90,000 000, i.e. EUR 84 000 000. Ladies and gentlemen, the choices we have and the documentation, whether economic or technical, or policy, are both sufficient and obvious for the number of channels. The other proposals serve other policies, those which for years have allowed people to transmit without permission, without procedures, without transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1232	Mr. Spirtzi, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1233	I'll be done. They are policies and practices that allowed for consultation with twenty-six stakeholders for DIGEA and to conclude a competition with one, those who intervened in ERT, such as the Secretary-General for Telecommunications of your government, so that there are no two network providers, but one network provider. And we have tabled the report to Parliament. They are those who found in the Ministry of Study with two hundred and seventy-five points and have drawn up a charter of frequencies with a hundred and fifty-six, those who placed their advisers - such as you - as members of the Plenary Assembly and as Vice-Presidents of the so-called independent Telecommunications Committee, those who changed inconsistent terms of the tender after the competition, and those who did not send the tender for pre-contractual audit to the Court of Auditors. Finally, we remember what you said, that the European Commission will come and will not let us go. This work was played by the government of Karamanlis and by the Minister of the Prokopi Pavlopoulou. Now we have other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1234	Minister, finish it up. We also have the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1235	I'm done. For months now, we have been living an unprecedented targeting with lies, with mud, with yellowism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1236	I've already doubled you the time from the one we agreed you'd talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1237	I'm done. We will see you in all tons, because especially today, ladies and gentlemen, we have many discounts and coincidences. We have discounts on the frequency map, but we have other coincidences. I heard the Chief of Officer County. He said about the coincidence of Napoleon's "four newspapers" in relation to the four channels. There's an article today, completely random! It is from a band that "loves us" too much and we read it for this reason. He has an article posted at 12 o'clock in the morning. "The four Napoleon newspapers are the title, "The coincidences of history." It's from "HIMPA online". I do not know whether it is a coincidence or a match to what we have heard from the Chief of Officerial Response with the "HIMA".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1238	What time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1239	Twelve o'clock at noon. The citizens who listen to us will judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1240	Mr. Spirtzi, this is the third time that I ask you to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1241	I shall conclude, Mr President. To close, we shall proceed no matter how much mud it falls on us, no matter how late the Settlement Operations are, no matter how much pressure and implementation of our commitments, the rationalisation of the television scene, the correction of the frequency map to see all of Greece, and of course the functioning of the regulatory and independent authorities to be truly independent. I want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1242	Okay, thank you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1243	I want to make a proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1244	Minister, excuse me. You've reached the tenth. We had an agreement for four minutes. You've reached ten minutes with tolerance. Excuse me very much, but you have now gone through every margin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1245	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1246	I'm right, but you keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1247	You're right, but some clarifications need to be given, because it sounds like they can transmit twenty channels...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1248	Minister, is there any understanding or is there not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1249	Tomorrow the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1250	I'll be there tomorrow. When you contribute to operating the National Broadcasting Council, we will find out what time each Member, every political person and every executive - at any time you choose - has been hosted by these channels, without permission. And then we will see that the 10-year-old series called "The Children of the Channel" has known and directed and scriptwriters and protagonists and expatriates. This series ends today!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1251	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1252	Mr President, I would like to stress that the President of the Democratic Independence has raised the issue today of the need to inform us about NATO issues. We believe that these issues can only be discussed seriously. Let the government choose the level of understanding. The debate, as it was today, was not even an introductory one. We are not concerned with what is SYRIZA's ideology. SYRIZA's ideology is power. We are, however, concerned with discussing this issue very seriously and not inappropriately, as happened this evening. Mr President, we have reached 0.40, so that the first question can be raised to the relevant ministers. On this point, you have told us of a procedure which you did not follow. The rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives of the parties on this matter would be given the floor. I'm not talking to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1253	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1254	I'm not talking to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1255	Allow me to interrupt for a few seconds only and I will give you time! The corresponding time I'll take away from you, I'll give it to you. What did we come up with, Mr. Loverdos? You come to plenary, you ask for the floor, and I give it to you. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1256	With you, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1257	In the plenary, with another President-in-Office, all the parties, unanimously here in this House, decided what you say about the rapporteurs, possible Members, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1258	That's right. Only with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1259	In the process and in consultation with other presidencies and parties, we have agreed to have a debate up to the level of the parliamentary representatives, beyond the chairmen of course of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1260	You're wrong, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1261	It didn't sound from any objections. At least as far as I am concerned, three times I have announced it, it has not been heard from any objection and you are now coming and you are putting this issue at such a late stage! Please, Mr. Loverdo! If you have to place on the substance, place on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1262	I just did this, you took me a minute and something, and you'll give it to me. I said, therefore, that, as the agreed procedure was violated, we would reach 0.40 seconds to address the two co-legislative ministers and ask them questions of the amendment. We have the impression that the government is giving false figures. One number compacts numbers, speaking instead of licensed programs, for channel numbers. The other Minister is talking about the high-definition channels, which are not the same as the broadcasting possibilities for non-high-definition channels, as is being done today by a large majority. This coexistence of numbers is the condition of improvement. And if you do not want to believe that, you must accept something else, the majority you will vote on. You are voting on an amendment setting out the number of channels. On what basis, ladies and gentlemen? Are you technologically convinced? And are they, Mr President, Ministers, the House to solve such problems? The National Television Council is the competent and has the right to see these. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Call as much as you want! You vote without knowing what you're voting for!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1263	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1264	They are shouting and reacting, but that is not what we are concerned with. It's their thing. What has to be said from the point of view of the amendment, will be heard, Mr President. It's over! Who thinks that these terrain can change the country's agenda? Tomorrow here, in a few hours, we're talking about the farm. We will have the opportunity to discuss this issue in substance and not - as others have done - to play a political game in rural mobilisation. We have had the courage to take a serious stand on this and to distance ourselves from issues which, through the mobilisations, affect the rights of other citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, because - and with this I am closing down, Mr President - the Prime Minister, the Minister of State, everything is going well in this country, all you have to do is do what the Emirats did: the Ministry of Happiness. It's all going well, manage these good things! So because everything is going well, it sounds - and today it has been heard - arguments that exiled the debate through opposition from the policy field, and they are taking it elsewhere, about allegedly arguments that are directed from elsewhere, be they the agricultural mobilisations which some people are mobilising, be they the media or any other issue. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] It's a disgrace to you all this! Take responsibility for the immorality that you will bring to the broadcasting scenery with those sluts you are voting on here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1265	Please, quiet, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Famelos has the floor. Mr Chironis will be followed and we will then proceed to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the mandate given by the New Democracy today is clear. Since they were unable to cover any of the arguments put forward by the government, since they could not even convince of the necessity of their tactics, they resorted to cries of patriocacaly and endemicism. And that was clear that Mr. Deedias tried to do. I do not know if you have agreed to play this channel and not to show the full defeat you had on arguments today on television frequencies. Of course, Mr. Dendias made other mistakes and made a number of arguments on the Golden Dawn. He went to cover the dictator Metaxas. The 'no', Mr. Dendia, was of the people! The dictators only succeeded in Greece was violence, it was the lack of democracy, it was the limitation of rights and the sale of the country! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Fascism, dictators, and extreme right-wings are plucking out the country! [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't go with them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1267	Tell us about NATO and leave them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1268	It hurts you, it hurts you! Yes, sir! However, it is the problem in New Democracy's foreign policy. And let's speak clearly. What is your problem with European policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1269	NATO is the problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1270	Their problem is that they belong to the European People's Party, where Mr Weber is struggling, who wants Greece outside the Eurozone, who wants Greece outside Schengen. And you have not dared, nor have you been able to change the policy of the party you belong to in Europe. And you hide that from Greek citizens! [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] So a few words about what we are defending, which is the country, but also the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1271	The 'no' of the people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1272	Please, quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1273	But let us go back to the real debate. Today's agenda is practically covering the anti-constitutional behaviour and the diversion from the rules of the democracy of our country's opposition parties that seek not to have an Independent Authority, the National Broadcasting Council, and not to be licensed by competition on television channels. Although we have been waiting for two months to make a president - although they failed with computer systems - and even though we have put an amendment to change the number of members of the PSE and even though we have brought the issue of the number of channels to the House, not the Minister, to three Conferences of Presidents, they have avoided their own constitutional obligation. It's clear what they're serving. They serve the former regime of lawlessness. And it is a pretext for the PSE to decide the number of channels, because that was an argument when we said that the House, which the Greek citizens chose, should decide. But it's another purpose. Their purpose is that the people should not have the right to decide, as the Greek people did, by breaking their ties in 2015, the ties to the channels, these ties that still want to exist, so that the Greek people do not decide. However, because the opposition does not allow the existence of the independent authority, we have an obligation to tender and to do so under the responsibility of the House, with a number that arises restrictively, entirely from the technical circumstances, but also from the economics of the advertising pie and of course, with the protection of competition. Why are you hiding that the channels today owe 14 million fines to the National Broadcasting Council, that they owe 20 million euros to the tax office, that they have 800 million loans with your own backs and that they are paid by Greek citizens too many times, that five channels were loss-making in 2013, that three television companies have a negative equity ratio and are not financially self-sufficient? And then you say that the workers will lose their jobs. But if we continue your own regime, the workers in the channels will lose their jobs. On the contrary, we create rules for the staffing of channels with four hundred people, with share capital, with strong contracts, without an indefinite working time, so that workers also have work in the broadcasting landscape. But for us it is understandable that the canalarchs will react. They will lose the interlocutory relationship, lose the monopoly of public frequencies. They should be sustainable, transparent, strong, not to have bankruptcies and debts. And they should have legal and permanent staff. The question that arises for citizens is: Why do you respond? Are all this bothering you? We, and in the field of information, have an obligation: to put every processor on his bench to breathe democracy in our country, democracy, which is narrowing behind the cameras of systemic channels, behind national contractors, behind tax evasion and corruption. This is the choice of the Greek people and that is what we will serve. And to make something clear. We have the power to do it. We have the power to continue without any problem of stability, because we have a strong mandate from the citizens, we have dreams, we have hope, we do not owe any pimp and, above all, we can all move on together. And we'll make it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1274	Mr. Chironis has the floor for three to four minutes at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1275	I would first like to express my warmest condolences to the three Navy children who have been lost today. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I would never have taken the floor to represent the constitutionalist, because we were very tired today by the debate on the Constitution. I sincerely expect to see if these threats occur that we will go to the constitutional court, to the Council of State, to see what is constitutional and what is not. However, what is certainly not constitutional and has been judged irrevocably is all this illegality of three decades. This has certainly been decided in constitutional terms and you have written it in your old shoes! I really do not know how good or how bad it is for the government or the PSE to declare them, because at the end of the day those who are going to sell will be auctioned. I will remind you what the law of lawlessness is about democracy all these years. So, let us remember that the Olympic fairy tale, with which you fed the Greek people, had no counterpart. The people who reacted to Olympiad were never given a chance to go out and tell what Olympiad means to the place. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These billions lost by the "Olympic Rabbit", the Greek citizen never learned what happened in a serious dialogue... [[Noise from the wings of the New Democracy and the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] So let us say that there are parties, such as my party, the Ecologist Greens and the JRC, which were permanently excluded from the channels. And when we warned the farmers that Acheloos would not solve them, but it is wrong their crops, no one has ever heard us because we have never been able to talk. See what happened the other day? We're talking about the world that's on the way. I respect the world that's on the way. But is this world being informed? Recently I saw a nice tab from a big channel to inform us that small, free professionals, who are currently working with around EUR 10,000 annual income, will have 76% reduction in their income. I'm a professional, too. I've been my whole life. I took my computer and found out that I would obviously pay 10% to 20% less than I pay today. So, do those on the street know quite good mathematics or are they being informed of the channels? Isn't that the constitutional obligation of the channels? However, we are forgetting that. I won't remember the referendum. Other colleagues have mentioned it. I'm not wasting time. But we should also talk about deafening silence. Have the Greek citizens learned anything about the circular economy? Have you heard a word about the circular economy? Have you heard a word about the cooperative energy companies, which today in Germany is 20% of the country's energy sources, which in Greece people are looking for what work they will do? Zero! He knows Parliament, therefore, that the Greek people are aware that in 2010 the European Parliament voted for the Sven Giegold report, the Green MEP, which said about the Eurobond, which was then the solution to the memorandum. However, this solution was concealed by the Greek people. The Greek people never learned that the European Parliament had voted for the Sven Giegold report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1276	Why don't you apply it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1277	And I even ask Parliament: do you know that today the United Nations Conference on the Mediterranean ended in Greece? No one knows, because no channel almost said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1278	Please! That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1279	So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not very important whether the authorisation will be issued by the PSE or by the government, because there is no PSE at this time. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 743a]] [[Let the page in. 744a]] The important thing is that the channels are a matter of democracy. And democracy doesn't work at the place. You're talking about buying, but what you're defending is the black market! You're talking about democracy, but what you're defending is black propaganda! We, therefore, have endured the black propaganda and do not chew with what you say. We will change the system, otherwise democracy will not move on in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1280	Thank you, Mr. Tsironi. The debate on the principle and the articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is adjourned: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1282	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1284	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1286	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA on the amendment with a general number of 186 and a special 1 on the draft law, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1287	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Theophebetto Aphrodite. Here. Mr. Madas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Famelos Socrates. Here you go. Mrs. Vaki Fotini. Here. Mr. Katsis Marios. Here you go. Mr. Barcas Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Lappas Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Balaouras Rissos. Here you go. Mr. Panzas George. Here you go. Mrs. Jufi Merope. Here. Mr. Panagiotis (Panos). Here you go. Mrs. Stamaki Helen. Here. Mr. Antoniou Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Gara Anastasia. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by members of the SYRIZA. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Republic on the amendment, with a general number of 186 and a special number 1 on the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1288	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr Metatakis Panagiotis (South). Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Karaoglu Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Kavadas Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr. Tasoulas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Dimas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr. Kalafatis Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10‘) minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1289	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1290	The House has agreed. There will be a roll-call vote on Amendment No 186, with a special 1 of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks bill: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport and other provisions’. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to accept this amendment. The non-acceptance of the amendment is said to be 'OH.' The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the amendments. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1291	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1292	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr Jason Fotilila, Mr Georgios Vagonas, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou and Mr Theodoras Bakoyannis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote 'no'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1293	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the electorate to take the count of the votes and to draw the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1294	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 270 Members voted. In favour of Amendment No 186 and a special item 1, namely 'NAI', they voted 154 Members. On the amendment, namely 'NO', they voted 102 Members. ‘PARON’ 14 Members voted, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1295	Therefore, Amendment No 186 by a general number and a special 1 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1297	The late payment was made by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles by a majority. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1298	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1300	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1301	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1302	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-11-S1-commons.u1303	(a) the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: A) of 24.12.2015 Act of Legislation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Economics (A'182) and (b) the Act of Legislative Area "Agreement of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy" (A'182) and (b) of 30.12.2015 of the Act of Accession of the Ministry of Economic and Social Affairs, Social Security and Defence. (A184)’ and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions debate, as well as discussion under number 6/6/27-11-2015, a topical question for Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR on the subject: ‘Unjustly tax-suppressive measures for farmers are promoted by the Government instead of a National Development and Production Reconstruction Plan’, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
