ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Of all eight topical questions, which were scheduled to be discussed, only one will unfortunately be discussed. The first under number 899/23-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the first under number 898/23-5-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of the New Republic of Nicholas Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the integrated quartz protection system for producers of the Regional Unit of Kavala is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We enter the debate of the second under No. 875/16-5-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the planning of the Ministry for the new anti-nuclear period. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I think that you will be giving me more time since the other Members are away. Minister, the anti-nuclear period that has just begun, once again finds the Greek firefighter, as always, to be thrown into the fire fight with self-depression and courage, but completely unprotected, without the necessary equipment, without the necessary hygiene and safety, without the necessary means of personal protection for a large number of fire workers, without an updated plan of action, with fire-fighting vehicles and minimal means of flight. The letter which was recently sent to the Prime Minister on behalf of the representatives of the workers in the firefighting industry reveals the tragicity of the whole situation and, at the same time, the anguish of the Greek firefighter, for which, unfortunately, the Greek state is deaf. It is not possible in 2016 that the operational action plan is based solely on the simplicity, freeness of fire workers and the ‘god of grace’, as indicated in the letter concerned. It is not possible in the year 2016 that the available resources and existing structures are not sufficient to meet the increased operational needs and to expect the "god machine" to solve ever increasing service and logistical problems and shortcomings. Mr Minister, you ask in this regard: What is your Ministry's plan for the new anti-nuclear period, what action plan to deal with forest fires, and what will your Ministry finally do to solve the problems posed on the one hand by the lack of logistical infrastructure and equipment, on the other hand, on the other hand on the one hand on the other? Secondly, with regard to the necessary personal protective equipment, your Ministry will take care of this in order to make this available in time to both permanent fire personnel and volunteer firefighters. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr. Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Cryazides, thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to inform you that for the anti-missile period, which begins on 1 June and ends on 31 October, the Fire Corps has drawn up an operational plan for all the regions of the country and has been sent to the regions. This includes the dispersion of vehicles, the dispersion of the various flying instruments, large and small aircraft and hired helicopters. Exercise on map on April 20th, “Pyrsos 2016”. Also, there was an exercise in real conditions here in Hymittos under the code name "Day Fire 2016" where the lessons we wanted or expected to learn were learned. There's been corrective action. The Forestry Coordinating Centre, the ESS, has been established, and it has now become a test function. It works, of course, all year round. His test function was for the anti-nuclear period. As far as the material of the Fire Corps is concerned, I would like to stress what Mr Kyriazides said - to clarify that 70% of fire-fighting vehicles are more than ten years old, that the nine fire-fighting aircraft were purchased after 1974, while the CL415 were bought around 2000. In other words, we have a very old-fashioned fleet of aircraft, as well as we have an old-fashioned fleet of fire-fighting vehicles. Of course, we have all ten rents of helicopters - seven middle-type and three heavy types - which will also start to grow from the beginning of the fire season. In other words, there are problems which, of course, did not arise now in the government's last year and a half. They have grown old over the past few years and have experienced huge problems. Of course, there have been accidents with aircraft falls, there have been too many damages, as well as a lack of spare parts. All this, indeed, creates a very difficult situation that we are trying to deal with. This government is trying with nails and teeth to cover huge deficiencies and huge problems. But we have exploited this old material that exists and we will be ready for the coming anti-nuclear period. For the first time this exercise was carried out in the Hymit and our means were tested. For the first time, there is such an intensity of preparation for the media. And I believe that we will be able to cope with the conditions - and hopefully it will not be difficult - of the coming summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I hope you are ready, as you said in conclusion, because it is a national matter indeed. And the New Democracy is dealing with this eye, as has often been stressed. After all, the interest of the President of our party is obvious. Just last week, Thursday, he visited not only voluntary facilities but also the business centre, where he was informed. Indeed, he wants us to be fully prepared as a country, because the environment is vital to all of us. I would, however, ask you to tell us whether a specific period of time has been planned for the personnel of the Fire Corps and, in particular, the five-year obligation to finally join the Fire Service. The second - and, of course, important to me - is about seasonals. Every year we had a certain number of recruitments, about a thousand five hundred. This year we have not been informed if you will eventually hire if they will join us. To date, I have not been informed of anything, nor of the fact that the means for personal protection have been guaranteed. This, of course, Minister, also applies to volunteers, who actually offer important services to local authorities, because they also help locally, and their participation is very important. I am also aware of the reduced number, and I would say, as far as the support for Coreper is concerned, that the hikers are concerned. We had about two hundred and we ended up at ninety-four this year. So here, too, we have issues that cause a problem. Finally, I would like to appeal on behalf of the workers in the Security Body especially in your area of responsibility, police officers and firefighters. You know very well that, through insurance, there have also been indirect cuts but also immediately, unfortunately, with taxation, with an amendment on the wage score freeze, that is, promotions and pensions. Another amendment that allows them to be found in the same way. Strangely enough, despite the fact that there would again be a resignation, as happens every week by the Minister of Defence, the equivalents were found for him. On behalf of the Ministry of Public Order, your responsibility - I mean police officers and firefighters - have they been found to be equivalent? Of course, the General Accounting Office answers to me that neither the Ministry of Defence has guaranteed, on the basis of the code mentioned by the Minister of Defence. That, however, is his issue. The question is about firemen and cops.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, Mr Kyriazidis, I see you are concerned about issues that are not concerned with by workers police officers and firefighters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u9	I wish it were. I hope that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u10	That's right. To start with, as you said in the last amendment, clarification has also been given by the Prime Minister in his speech that any problem arises, if it arises, will be covered either by equivalents or by the surplus. I think that the Prime Minister's assurance is enough and I do not need to clarify anything further. Now, as far as preparedness is concerned, I would like to say that we are relying on workers' honesty, but we also need good organization and good preparation. That is what, unlike the previous years, we are trying to achieve. Of course, the workers, with their friendly efforts, are trying to fill the gaps. But we insist on the issue of organisation, we insist on the issue of functions, because democracy has rules for us and democracy wants us to organise and all functions want to organise, from our individual family to state functions. As far as the five-year obligation issue is concerned, workers are well aware. They have visited me at the office and I have assured them of the course of things. So some people who tell you, they're pretending they don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u11	Tell us a year, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u12	The precise time has been given to workers. The number of five years of obligation, which, according to the law, can be hired - around two and a half thousand - will have to submit their papers six months ago. And as the anti-nuclear period is mediated and it will be difficult for them to leave their jobs and go running for their papers, we said at this time that the circular, which has already been promoted, will come out. Therefore, very soon they will be invited to submit their paperwork and within the time, i.e. in January or February 2017, the procedures provided for in the law will be initiated. So these have been clarified to the workers, workers know them, they have no concern, and that is why you should not have. With regard to some individual anti-missile suits you referred to, I would like to inform you that on 4 March and 28 March the tenders for the supply of some six thousand and five thousand uniforms for the permanent and five-year obligation were launched. There's another package for the provision of 12 and a half thousand. This has problems, because there are constant objections and you know the problems with contests when there are objections. That's the evolution. From there on, as far as vehicles are concerned, I would like to tell you that they were scheduled for supply through the NSRP for a hundred and sixty-four vehicles. Two hundred thirty-three of them have already been received and the rest are in a procurement procedure. And for the latter, as far as the work is concerned, which needs to be done by the regions of the country for fire protection, I would like to say that 30 million have been given and that another 15 million will be provided through some procedures. But the 30 million have already been allocated and the regions of the country have been able to start the procedures laid down each year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u13	For staff, regarding nights, Sundays and holidays, please tell us if they have been assured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u14	Minister, will you allow the interruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u16	Mr Cryazides, repeat the question, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u17	Minister, there is the question from the point of view of seasonal and five-year commitments as to whether the funds have been found in order to be available for service. Because if there are no Sundays, no holidays, no nights, no nights, no work. So - and not to be misunderstood - they are 'usable'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u18	Good, Mr. Lady. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Kyriazides, you know that the legislative framework of five years of obligation and volunteers is different from that of permanent fire extinguishers. There are problems with their employment, overnight hours, weekends. This is what we have started and are looking at resolving it by a joint ministerial decision or by legislative procedure, if necessary. For the Fire Corps, I think there is the most confusing, most complex system of origin for these people and rules, the institutional framework of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u20	Homogenisation must end, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u21	So-called 'homogenisation' is a very nice word. However, the homogenisation that those who advised you mean it is as follows: to assimilate the school fireman to the volunteer. These things can't be done. It's unfair to do it. It is simply necessary to lay down rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u22	I mean, in terms of integration, not levelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u23	Homogenisation is not possible, it can't be done, we can't unify the constable with the officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u24	I fully agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u25	We can't homogenize the fireman for a five-year term with the fireman officer. There are differences. But there should finally be rules. If I say there was no rule for the Fire Corps, it would be no exaggeration and believe me. That's what we're looking at righting. It's a very complicated situation. I did not expect there to be - so many years - I have been in the public sector - part or sector of the public sector with such a lack of rules. We are trying to allay this situation both in the material and in the rules of operation of the staff. That is where we would like the help of all the resignations in Parliament. I think that in such reforms we have your own help and your party as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u26	We agree, Minister, but let's finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u27	We're trying and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u28	Mr Kyriazidis, if you wish, as before, to ask a question, because we have time and if, of course, the Minister wishes to do so, I would ask you to rise. The debate in plenary does not take place on the benches. Mr Minister, there is neither a tritology nor a dialogue. In violation of the Rules of Procedure we will do so now, but is it something so important that it should be said, Mr Kyriazidis, what you want to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u29	Yes, Mr President, thank you. Minister, anguish I believe is all of us, and workers in this particular workplace, and police and fire extinguishers. However, because we are at this time and because this year we have started very prematurely, if you want, this period, because we have premature fires - and the Minister knows better - there is an anguish on the part of firemen, but also from all of us. That is why I believe that you too, Mr President, are giving us more time when the Minister is here and has the time to tell us two things. But I believe, Minister, that in any case, the integration of all men and women under a specific employment regime - not this abstract, because you said, too, that there is a different employment regime, but that, on the other hand, we have, if you like, 'in service' and we cannot put them on service because there are certain funds missing, there is a certain legislative regime - it creates huge problems. That is why I think it is an appeal for all the parties in this House to end this. Since there is this harmony, it is an opportunity to end this adventure of all these executives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Cryazides, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u33	Colleague, that's what we're trying to do, that's why we've started the proceedings. This year especially is the turning point. According to the law, the five-year obligation, those with the prerequisites, i.e. when they were hired, were under the age of 40 and had graduated from high school, can be permanentised. For others, the five-year contract will be renewed, no one will be on the road, and I have explained these to the workers. And beyond the humanitarian, there is the necessity during the anti-missile period and not just because the Fire Corps is now working all year round. So we're trying to solve problems that are a gordian bond, believe me. We have received very difficult situations, very complicated, and this is why we are fighting for our battle, and the workers know it, and that's why they work night and day and for them to deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u34	But they must also have a response, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, by letter to the President of the Parliament, seeks permission from absence abroad for Monday 30 May 2016 and Tuesday 31 May 2016. Similarly, Mr. Harris Theocharis seeks permission from abroad from May 29, 2016 until June 2, 2016, because he wants to attend a conference. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The third under number 846/9-5-2016 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, regarding the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida, is not being discussed. The fourth under number 825/254-2016 topical question for the second Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, on the residual function of the Anticancer Hospital of Metataxas, is not being discussed. The sixth under number 799/19-4-2016 topical question of the second-cycle question of the Halkidiki Parliamentary Coalition Mr.Akaterini Iglezis to the Minister of Health, on the needs of the Technical Reef Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki, is not discussed. The seventh question, number 708/28-3-2016, raised by Mr Christos Stakouras, Member of Parliament, with regard to the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia, is also not being discussed. Finally, the fifth question under number 829/254-2016 of the second independent MP, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the old EUR 90 million debt on urban buses due to previous administrations, is not discussed due to a blockade by the Member of Parliament in question. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 17 March 2016 and Friday 18 March 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u37	The minutes of Thursday 17 March 2016 and Friday 18 March 2016 were therefore validated. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-30-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the House at 18.24 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday, June 1, 2016 at 10 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
