ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to inform the House of the following: 1) The Ministers for Environment and Energy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Economics, Development and Tourism for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Rural Development and Food, Maritime and Island Policy, and the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy submitted a draft law on 20-9-2016: "Preparation of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change". 2) The Ministers for Education, Research and Religion, Economics, Development and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Economics tabled a draft law on 20-9-2016: "Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade shall also present its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Forest Cooperatives and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improvements of the Arab Republic of Egypt for cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. However, as the Ministerial Amendment No 675/59 has been tabled and Amendment No 674/58, I propose firstly that Mr Ilias Panagiotaros should be placed at the beginning of the draft law by the People's Association - Golden Dawn and Mr Nikolaos Moraitis from the JRC who voted against the Standing Committee, and that the Minister responsible should also be placed for five minutes of the hour. Then there will be the floor for those of the rapporteurs, special speakers, parliamentary representatives and speakers who wish to put them on the amendments, each for five minutes. After the debate on the amendments, with the position of the Minister responsible, we shall proceed to the vote. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. But we have a fixed time frame. By 19.00 this procedure which I described must be completed, so that the procedure for the waiver of immunity may be followed. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. This ratification relates to a memorandum of cooperation, which had been signed about two years ago. In particular, in the explanatory statement, the aim of the parties is to increase the food security and economic development of countries, to promote research and studies in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. This cooperation shall be achieved, according to the signatories to the Memorandum, through the exchange of information and statistical data, by encouraging investments in aquaculture and research. Our fundamental concern concerns the substance of the memorandum. The provisions of this sanction are so general that one does not understand the precise issues that are regulated and the ultimate objective of this sanction. On the basis of this thought, our doubts and doubts are also born. Practice has shown that the memoranda, conventions, conditions - little importance is for the conceptual approach - which is vague and allow the most powerful available and measures to be imposed when implementing them. What we want to point out is that the role of each country in the Convention is not defined anywhere, and the way in which Greece's maritime rights are protected, and it certainly does not ensure that they are not violated, in the name of a memorandum of cooperation. There is no doubt that the importance of fishing, the development of aquaculture for our country as the primary sector of production is taken into account. However, once again, the government is taking action to promote cooperation in this area in the Mediterranean, without having a clear policy on the one hand to exploit fisheries wealth and to protect the marine environment and, on the other, to encourage the Greeks to deal with and operate in the fisheries sector. On the other hand, the Government is persistently indifferent to the Greek citizen and, through this Memorandum, protects foreign workers once again. There is indeed a shortage of Greek fishermen and the workforce, and I repeat, in this primary production sector as a whole, are aliens, basically Egyptians. Greece is striving to ensure the smooth entry and work of the above, in accordance with this Memorandum. It shall issue admission permits, work permits. On many occasions provisions are laid down over-protective to their employment rights, as is done in every favoured state. But before that, he had to have done the right thing for the Greek citizen, who is plagued by unemployment and if he succeeded in entering and acting in this sector of production, dealing with the state, through over-taxation, discouraged him of any further employment. Set up a fair tax system, encourage the Greeks to deal with primary production, increase investment in the fisheries sector, while at the same time protecting this base, namely the workforce, and then try to build cooperation relations with the other Mediterranean countries. Here again, we point out this because it is a constant tactic for the Greek Governments to submit to foreign orders for the sake of an alleged preservation of good diplomatic relations. The aim was not to sign up for memorials without content and contrast, but to implement a firm foreign policy and demarcation of the EEZ, in order to highlight Greece's enormous wealth source and its strength. An integrated policy must have as a visionary objective the design of the Greek EEZ. We do not say that all our country's suffering will be solved by the introduction of the EEZ, but this last move will reflect the protection of Greek interests. And the most ignorant can understand that the issues of the Law of the Sea can be a field of political and military conflict, given that huge economic sizes are at stake. According to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, in 1982 the exclusive economic zone is considered to be the sea area within which a State has the right to research or other exploitation of all marine resources, including water and wind energy production. It extends beyond the national waters of a country, usually twelve nautical miles, but not beyond two hundred nautical miles from the coastline or base line. In this Memorandum, the Government is attempting to promote marine research, the protection of the marine ecosystem and others in general and indefinitely, without the EEZ having previously been delimited. The decision to move Greece towards demarcations of maritime zones with neighbouring countries, therefore also with Egypt, is a maximum political decision. Unfortunately, however, all Greek governments fearing Turkey's reactions do not promote Greek interests. On the contrary, the other Contracting Party, Egypt, has followed the policy of the other Mediterranean States since 2003. In particular, an agreement on the exclusive economic zones was signed between Cyprus and Egypt in 2003. In the Eastern Mediterranean, the Greek side should already have delimited the zone in relation to Cyprus and Egypt. However, he is reluctant not to dissatisfaction with the Turkish 'neighbours'. We must not forget the intervention of Ankara, which is being held. The Turkish side was trying to exclude the southern and eastern Greek islands from the establishment of an EEZ that compose the Greek base line to Egypt. In order not to flatten and remove from the substance of this debate, what Golden Dawn points out is that the Greek Government must act in the national interest and not just to ratify a number of memoranda, simply because some people impose it on them. The establishment of an EEZ must be a fundamental principle and a position of national foreign policy in the exercise of the sovereign rights of a State. There is no room for delays and withdrawals in this very serious national issue, but the present government, like the previous ones, does not have the political and moral stature to do so. That is why we are voting against this moratorium. For the two amendments, I would like to speak now, because I am also speaking on behalf of the committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u4	All right, talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u5	For the first, which concerns the compensation of farmers for damage caused by deer in plant farming in Rhodes, we do not raise any objections. But, as there is care for deer and disasters in Rhodes, there should be care - and there has not been a long time now - for the disasters in the Peloponnese, for Arcadia about two months ago, for Messinia, for Elias, for Northern Greece and for other regions. For the second amendment, which gives an extension to the permits for livestock establishments, yes, it is right, because some people are stirring up and there is no legislative framework so far specifically, but this also shows the curiosity of the Greek state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikos Moraitis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. We also stressed in the debate in committee that the memorandum of understanding between Greece and Egypt is far from the interests of the two peoples, the poor medium-sized fishermen of the two countries. It serves the designs of the ruling class of Greece and Egypt in the field of fish farming. They are the ones that will pluck the marine wealth of countries, increase their profits and often lead to the destruction of the marine environment and ecosystems. This is clearly seen by Article 2, which encourages private investment in the space, by way of summary procedures. Then Article 5 comes, which ensures the implementation of the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy in our country. Let's see what the Common Fisheries Policy provides for, which our country applies to the letter: Firstly, strengthening the industrial model of productive fish and, at the same time, dismantling, in essence, coastal and middle fishing. It provides for restrictive measures, fishing shelters for fishermen, restricted areas, while, on the other hand, incentives, financial support programmes for fisheries and shellfish. This is why in recent years the area has been slaughtered, intense mobility, expansion, takeovers, mergers, destruction and destruction of small family farms. It is what our people say 'the big fish eats the little'. For the European Union of monopolies and civil governments on a sustainable basis, it is the one conducted by large capitalist enterprises. These enterprises support their profitability in reducing the price of the labour force. These agreements deepen the exploitation of workers and are a good tool to increase the exploitation of even cheaper labour. Fish farm workers, Greeks and Egyptians know firsthand what this means in practice, live on their feet. We have intensified work, lack of hygiene and safety measures. We have examples that workers themselves have paid with their own lives these measures. And the greatest proof is that urban governments, like SYRIZA's current, give businessmen gifts. In the fish farms they have fishermen - with heavy manual, dependent work - in the OGA, without receiving sickness permits, without being compensated for accidents, etc. They let them work in a farce, because the OGA doesn't have any control mechanisms, so big business in the field act undisturbed. From this policy that today's SYRIZA-ANEL co-government, which you complained about two years ago, Minister, what will change with this agreement between the two capitalist countries? The worst thing will change, in our view, for the workers and the poor, medium-sized fishermen. Beyond the management of water resources, such agreements are part of the overall planning of the ruling class in the region, they involve the people increasingly deep in the intra-capitalist and intra-imperialist conflicts that occur in the region. We have interventions in the region to grab the wealth of the people and the wider Mediterranean region that we are discussing. Many times, the marine wealth, the coastlines of the countries, are sacrificed in front of imperialist interventions. We must remind ourselves here, as happened in the area, in the waters of the Mediterranean, when just two years ago, the US seafarer's ship neutralised Syria's chemical weapons - then SYRIZA shouted, of course, today it was not apnea - it had been approved by the United States and by the European Union itself and other organisations, using the method of hydrolysis at sea of Syria's chemicals. A few days ago in committee, you all almost talked about the country's advantages. It has been said that the shores of our country are beyond the shores of an entire continent, of Africa. But you did not say a word about who is destroying these advantages, these possibilities. The capitalist way of producing, which you all serve, destroys, this way of making businesses and, on the other hand, trespasses every right of the workers. Mr. Apostle, you may laugh, but you are consistently serving this policy, which you condemned some time ago. In our country - listen, Mr Apostlelos - which is the first country in the Mediterranean to produce Mediterranean fish - seabirds and sea bass - where we cover 50% of production in the European Union, these do not enter the table of people's households because they are greedy. Although they are produced by the workers, who work in the Middle Ages, as we mentioned, they are fruited by the big businessmen. Unfortunately, that's capitalism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the JRC, a philosophical solution that ensures support for small and medium-sized fishermen, the country's food self-sufficiency in catches, environmental protection, may only exist in conflict with the Common Fisheries Policy, with the policy of capital. Only another development path, which will abolish profit as an incentive to fisheries production, will socialise the concentrated means of production under labour control with central nationwide planning, can ensure the satisfaction of people's needs and popular prosperity. We are voting against the memorandum of understanding between Greece and Cyprus. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say in particular about the amendment to installations, that we agree. After all, it is a constant demand for farmers' poor medium-sized farms. Of course, we must stress here, Minister, as we have said in committee, that any extensions that you give for ten years are not going to solve this issue, because you have literally dissolved the forests and livestock and especially the poor medium-sized farmers if no measures are taken to cover production costs, because it is really unbearable for farmers. We are also voting for the second amendment on compensation for farmers in Rhodes for the damage caused by deer. At the same time, however, we are also asking for measures to protect deer on the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor in principle for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the world will not turn upside down in our region for an agreement between two countries which already have good relations, especially in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, which both countries have a cognitive object, especially in the fisheries sector. It is not the fish of the aquaculture that is the expensive, expensive ones. There are also cigarettes and sea bass accessible to the economically weak citizen. That's the picture, Mr. Comrade. What are the two countries doing, within the framework of the international fisheries agreements, of course, taking into account the International Maritime Law? In particular, we, as a Member State of the European Union, commit ourselves and it is good that the Contracting country also accepts, in its own regulations, the European Union provides for the protection of fish stocks, for the management of stocks. You already know that there are bilateral relations between the two countries, which are both tripartite now, as we are in constant mobility and contact on other issues too. So what is more positive is that the rural area, the fishing area, should contribute to this effort. I have nothing to say, Mr President, despite the fact that all the procedural issues relating to cooperation between the two countries are provided for in this memorandum. However, we must bear in mind that this aquaculture sector, despite the crisis that over the last two years it has faced, particularly in terms of price reduction, is a sector of export championship. In our country, it is very helpful. And it seems that, through restructuring, they are trying to solve overcompensation problems, which they mainly have. Then one more reason in this process to support this sector for the simple reason that - I repeat - it is one of the pioneers and pioneers of our country's export efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mr. Carras, do you want the floor? You are obviously among the rapporteurs or speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u11	May I ask the Minister, too, to place himself on the amendment on livestock facilities, so that we may be placed afterwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u12	But there's a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u13	For both amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u14	You want to say something now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u15	If I hear the Minister, I'll ask after the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u16	Then the Minister will take the floor. Mr. Carras, tell me what you have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u17	I wanted to refer to livestock facilities. Let me say it and you'll answer it later. Why am I saying this and why did he make me feel interested, Mr President? I see the provisions here. I remember Law 4056/2012, which was a truly optimistic law. I also remember the economic and technical elements mentioned in his explanatory statement. Then he told us that we need to continue operating livestock facilities, because Greece is indeed a deficit in meat types, and we spend a billion a year on meat imports. I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u18	Make it two billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u19	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u20	Make it two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u21	That's what I'm talking about. I am talking about 2012, Mr President, about what the explanatory statement said in 2012. Law 4056 gave an optimistic picture of the fact that the state's attempt to license the facilities will continue. I must say that, although they are useful and there is no doubt that livestock farming is a sector of particular interest to the country, but I must also remind you of the nuisances it is causing and for which the issue of distances from residential areas is a major issue, due to the waste water, which arises. So this provision, which we shall vote on for objective reasons, comes here. We cannot stop operations, even by voting. But what I would like to point out is this: the problem remains. Furthermore, this paradox is no longer the case. While the potential for increasing animal production should have been created, animal production declined, imports increase. The statistical element, which is given - at least in my opinion - is accurate - is that the consumption of a Greek product and 70% is imported, whether in the form of fattening or in the form of direct import. Not to mention the last tragic one, that even soapballs of pigs we import frozen from Denmark and consume them and we are happy. So I will tell the Minister, and I will ask him for this to be done. The provision is incomplete, Minister. The livestock establishments must continue to operate, there is no doubt whatsoever. But it is incomplete. Because I expect to hear how the buildings and the environment will be protected. We are not one of those who will ask for the removal of installations. But in the provisions you are proposing, and since pigs, especially, are often close to residential areas, they cause nuisance, they have waste and waste. We can see another thing that, with the tolerance of legislative power and the government, the same situation will continue and we will not have a solution. Why am I saying that? With the last provision of the proposed, Minister, you say that fines are suspended if there is a permit to maintain, continue, the administrative elimination protocols are suspended. Do you know where most of the fines are in here? In environmental legislation is most fines, not just administrative fines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is not just administrative fines for breach of agricultural or forestry legislation. We have environmental legislation. I do not see in the text either the main part of Law 4056 nor today the issue of environmental protection is regulated. I have a suggestion to make, and I'll be done. Admittedly, there should be standard environmental commitments, that there should be commitments from the operators of the installations. Bring a provision immediately so that it can self-determination to comply with environmental legislation, make the operator himself the conditions on which it can function and come after the state to control it. As you do today, it's inverse. It works, we give him the form of continuation, we give him the sense of immunity, after we suspend and ultimately delete fines, administrative expulsions and all that. So in 2018, if we are well, we will discuss the same subject again in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u22	But they're getting paper from the office. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u23	No, they don't, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u24	The problem is, there's no office employees. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, two amendments have been tabled with usual tactics in the ratification of agreements. Every time we have an amendment to this ratification procedure, in which the Rules of Procedure do not normally provide for a debate, we will say that it is a procedure that is not just a question of the Rules of Procedure, but it is also one of what has happened even in previous years, which you want to support. That is why the procedure for tabling amendments to the conventions should finally be stopped. We are going to go to the specific amendment on livestock facilities, which is of interest. Here, under paragraph 1 of the proposed amendment, you again extend the date of 12 September, which expired on 31-12-2018. First of all, let us say that, as far as the situation is concerned, time is needed for farmers to complete their licensing procedures and, of course, time for them to exercise their activity legally, without being penalised or packaged and, above all, for them to be able to join the co-financed rural development programmes. So in this context, right now, where we have arrived, if there is no solution, farmers will be in the air. This is an aspect of the coin. However, let us see what you are doing and say: you say that, in order to avoid the difficulties of implementing a law that has been identified, there will be a simplification procedure which may lead to a new institutional framework. In other words, in your rapporteur's report, what you say, for 31-12-2018, is too late. You should say that you will bring in a new institutional framework in the next few months. But you're saying you might bring it. In short, there may never be a new institutional framework in this process and you admit it in the rapporteur's report, and of course you do not even use the positives of the previous law, in 2012, which you could implement, in order to move forward with some things. We have told you in the debate on the draft law on grazing land - and we are now being confirmed on this issue - that the issues which afflict farmers, such as the permits for livestock establishments, are not solved by extensions. You have then proposed eighteen months for the permit deadline and we have said 'all right to proceed with this extension, but to give a comprehensive solution'. You haven't done it. You are therefore giving a new extension until 2018 in order to complete the process for the new institutional framework. In any case, because the arrangements brought in by the arrangements and the remaining paragraphs do not show any vision of strengthening livestock farming, Minister, and turning towards the production of livestock products, at least look at missing such expressions through the report, such as "the support and promotion of livestock farming is one of the key strategic choices of the Ministry, which is reflected in every effort of the Ministry, so that the livestock sector can overcome its structural weaknesses". Words, words. Right now, you're ruling. You're not bringing in a new institutional framework. We're expanding, so the farmers don't get out of their permits. Farmers, like farmers, have constantly taxed on taxes. This is a situation that they can't handle. They see us, they hear us. They cannot get through it and there can be no production process, so that deficits are increased. This is the reality, and yet we have seen the Prime Minister at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki say about tax relief for farmers, that "we did it in agriculture". If you continue in this context, you are out of reality and farmers and farmers understand it, they understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Theoharopoulos, get it over with now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. Long-term problems cannot be solved with extensions. That's not how they solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Vanja has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u29	As far as ratification is concerned, I would like to say that the Minister also said that the importance of the fisheries sector is well known for Greece. It is the second sector in exports after fruit and vegetables. Therefore, the existing cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Agriculture of Egypt is, in my opinion, a very useful legal instrument for sustainable collecting fisheries and for the further development of the aquaculture sector. It comes to strengthen technical, economic, scientific and administrative cooperation between two countries with a long maritime tradition and a fishing history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u30	Do you have anything to say about the amendments? You consent, that's what I'm saying. According to the procedure, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u31	The rapporteur is and I recommend the unanimous vote in favour of ratification. As far as Amendment No 657 is concerned, this is an important legislative intervention - which is also urgent - which enables farmers to solve some of their problems with regard to the problem of the licensing of their establishments. Beyond the fact that we have a almost hostage status for farmers over the years because of complexity and bureaucracy, there is also a failure to participate in European programmes and most of the time this is not on their own fault. With the amendment we come to amend Law 4056 and strengthen it with Article 17a that was added to Law 4351 and allow the procedure to be simplified on the one hand and, on the other hand, to allow people who had their stacks before 2012 to retain them. In other words, the amendment actually extends until 2018. In my opinion, it's not too much. We are well aware of the licensing process and it is too late, so the extension until 2018 is necessary, given that about 80% of farmers have not been able in the last four years to have a livestock permit. We allow livestock establishments within educational establishments or public bodies to be licensed. We are giving the possibility - and this is very important, and it concerns many people - that we have a licence to keep on facilities which are close to road and rail networks. Usually it concerns rural roads that are inappropriate and plaice, that is to say it is unreasonable completely unreasonable. We are still giving the possibility of extending the pre-authorization licence. In these cases, we know that bureaucracy is scary. We know that it is usually impossible for farmers to gather the necessary supporting documents within the time given. The possibility of an extension of the authorisation is therefore absolutely necessary. Finally, there are also issues relating to sanctions - this is very important - for people who have the opportunity to obtain a licence because they fulfil all the conditions, but because of the administrative mechanism in the country, they do not manage to get it in their hands. This means that the amendment is necessary, urgently, to solve problems and, in my opinion, to change the institutional framework, to simplify it. And if something didn't do right, it's that we should have brought her in earlier. That is why I recommend its vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr. Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we agree on the ratification of the Memorandum, because it is really a framework of cooperation which seeks to strengthen the good relations between the two countries, Greece and the Arab Republic of Egypt, in a very important area, both for the sustainable exploitation of the fishing wealth of the Mediterranean and for the protection of the ultimate consumers of fishery products.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u34	For the amendment, why do you agree on the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u35	Sure, I'll tell you. I have time to say a few words, as my colleague said, and I did not see you interrupting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u36	I noticed there, Mr. Andriane, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u37	As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr President, unfortunately I must point out that a practice in which you have used hard Cretan in the past, you are now following it with the amendments to sanctions. In any case, first of all, in the amendment on the extension of the authorisation of livestock establishments, we agree, but with a substantial observation. This story must end at some point, with definitive regulation and farmers must cease to be hostages of the successive extensions. I have listened to the honourable Member who spoke about strengthening the procedure. The problem, Mr President, is not solved by extensions. They are solved with a framework, which, in order to exist, you need to see the problems that exist. Have you seen, for example, Minister, where are the problems? Obviously in the staffing of forest services, in the forest halls, which do not declassify areas in which facilities are located. So we definitely need this involvement to be resolved, and we believe that the opportunity offered by the arbitrary draft law should be used in this direction. We therefore expect you to solve the problem definitively and not to cover the problem under the carpet, because that is what the extensions are doing. And, of course, it must be solved immediately, because the problems faced by farmers and farmers, together, are also development programmes, because they cannot be integrated into development programmes when they have arbitrary livestock facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Andriane, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u39	We have another amendment, Mr President. We got two. Show an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u40	You have no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u41	Wait a minute, it's worth your while and patience. For the amendment concerning the damage caused by deer in Rhodes, we agree that this is a real problem, because in areas affected by fires there is no natural food available, so that animals can get down to crops and destroy them. Of course, we say that you should take this amendment back, re-submit it and bring it back to work on a proper basis, because it cannot be compensated. There must be a period of one year at most, two. Because there are similar and similar problems with feral pigs in many areas of the country where our farmers are suffering enormous damage. There must therefore be provisions in the ELGA and in this case in the context of active protection, as is appropriate for wild boar and for the wild rabbits of Lemnos. Why, then, does this exception go away without a specific period of time? You need to study it. If you do not take it back to reprint it, we do not vote against it, but we will vote'residents' for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. We will not get tired of saying that the methodology of tabling amendments to international conventions is inconsistent with the principle of subsidiarity. If there are no grounds for absolute priority and time pressure, I do not think it should be followed by the government anymore. To come to the essence of the two amendments, I would say, as colleagues have said, that we do not solve problems with the methodology of continuous extensions. It is, of course, a real problem and we call for the rational use of European resources for the development of livestock, which is a key area for the rural economy. It also calls for the effective support of the management plans for livestock farming. We don't get that done by extensions. It is a real problem that needs to be resolved on the substance. There's also a question of moral order, Minister. Those who ran to legalize, get into the process of following the regulations, aren't they the ones who will feel the naive nomadic again? No matter what they are. However, in any case, there is also the establishment of the belief that nothing changes and anything we can do as we have learned and that we have been able to do until now. We will also be voting in favour of the second amendment, because it is an issue that needs to be addressed. I think, Minister, that it gives us the opportunity to say once again that the conditions have matured now to speak seriously and to plan the modernisation of the ELGA regulation, because new realities, new conditions, new issues that concern farmers and farmers require a new modern regulation. If we do not walk on this road, I think we will constantly come to resolve, whenever we can, individually and ad hoc, disaster issues such as what we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr Gas and Mr Kegeroglu have the floor and we are done with the speakers. The Minister will have the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like the representative of the New Democracy to revise the 'white' opinion on the amendment we tabled, because I think he did not have the necessary information. Mr President, Minister, the Dodecanese Members of the SYRIZA, and not only, had signed the previous amendments that we tabled on the same subject. They were signed by Mr. Consolas and Mr. Cremastino. In other words, it is the amendment. For technical reasons only now has it not been possible to have their own signatures. We have tabled an amendment, with a general number of 674 and a specific number of 58. Thank you to the Minister for her acceptance. This amendment refers to the compensation for farmers from the damage caused by the platonic, deer, in other words, to the planting of Rhodes and to the protection of the species of deer itself. I'll tell you later what this is all about. It is therefore an amendment calling for society, the municipal authority and the ecological organizations. Today, a long-term effort is under way with a happy ending. The proposed regulation therefore contributes, on the one hand, to protecting the agricultural production of the deer areas of the island, through ELGA, and, on the other, to the urgent need to protect the platinum, the dama-dama, which is a symbol for Rhodes and is the only natural population of the species in the world. It should be noted that the Rhodes Plato deer with ancient origin and special genetic identity, as it differs geneticly from other European and Asia Minor platforms, has been recorded in the Vienna Convention as a threatened species and has been included in the red book of the threatened vertebrates of Greece with the characteristic "risk", that is to say, a species that faces a very high risk of extinction in the natural environment and in the immediate future. As you know, Rhodes has been affected in recent years by severe natural phenomena, culminating in the last major fires in southern Rhodes, which caused extensive damage to the forest ecosystem of our island, caused the deer to move to the plains from the forest areas it burned, causing great damage to agricultural crops. I would remind you that the Minister, when he came to Rhodes after the last fires, lived in close proximity the deer either by team or by himself running panics to see where they're going, how they're going to live. The proposed amendment therefore deals with a number of issues. Look here, it's a map showing to what extent Rhodes is burned today and needs reafforestation. I'll testify to him. So one understands where the platform can live and how this deer is forced to find food in the crops. So, production, but also the species, must be protected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u46	All right, so the deer doesn't stay just a statue. All right, Mr. Gaki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u47	I call on the New Democracy to revise its view on 'white' in its resolution on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, as far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development is being discussed in plenary on Thursday. Both amendments are from the Ministry of Rural Development and a related bill, so they could come for discussion on Thursday. Why is this abundance and irregularity? Is there any feasibility? Is there superstitious? What about all of it? Look at this again. If it's solved, why are they coming to the conventions again and again? You know, we have two amendments over time, these two. And now on your term of office, we have a couple of fifty amendments to contracts. It is not possible to do this when there is even a possibility of being submitted in a relevant bill, as I said. But, as Mr Dannelis said, if there's anything urgent, of course we can see. For the amendment concerning pastures, our Parliamentary representative has been put in place. It is clear that we are voting for it so that there are no losses - under no circumstances - of the rights of farmers because of the weakness of licences. We are also voting for the amendment to the ELGA regulation, pointing out to the Ministry that there are similar cases for which an amendment to the ELGA regulation is required and must be in the same order as that which supports this amendment, after consultation, to make the other amendments and not to reply to Parliament's control that 'the ELGA regulation does not allow'. Don't go any further today. The fact that it is a parliamentary amendment and it is a ministerial one means nothing to the Ministry's intention. I think it is after consultation - and good, unless he tells us that it does not make it acceptable. But let us see the other cases in the same spirit. I do not want to open the debate now. I'll see you Thursday in the relevant bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like to add the words 'and other provisions' to the title of the bill, because we added the amendments. The amendment on compensation for farmers for damages from deer in plant crops in Rhodes is certainly accepted, and the ELGA under the law will carry out the corresponding proportionate study and, once the proportionate study is completed, the insurance will apply immediately. What I really want to stress is that, in fact, especially from wild animals, there are too many damages. Let us go, because the ELGA right now has too many damages to cover. Do not forget that our country is currently in an emergency at least 50%. She's flooding, God-fearing. So you realise that that is where damage compensation is going to be very large. Later and quite rightly, similar proportionate studies will be made on the other cases, especially wild boar, which are currently making great damage to the rest of the country. Before I come to the amendment, I would like to remind my colleagues in the Staff Regulations that particularly as regards sheep and goat farming, this government has done so much that the previous governments have not been able to do for many years. Only one I will mention, the simplicity we asked for, when we were opposition, is that the eligible grazing areas should finally be included in those areas which have wood vegetation. Do you know how much you've done? Two years you have taken a closer look at this. What did we do? What have we suffered every year? Permanent fines from the unsuccessful management of eligible pasture, such as 350 million, 400 million each year. That's all we had. And in 2015 for the first time, we had no fines. And that's not all. It's also the law on grazing land for grazing. You sincerely remember that everyone was against and today acknowledged that it was a move that the sheep and goatmeat really needed. ovine and caprine animals is the potential sector, which can help us, can fight its products in world trade. There, then, we have succeeded - and it is what comes out of the management plans now we are drafting - now not only to meet the needs for eligibility, but also to have stocks. That's not all. Our primary objective is that, through the proper management of these areas, we respond to the great problem of ovine and caprine animals, which is the cost of feedingstuffs. You know that, especially in animal production, 70% of the cost of production is feed. So when we want through this process to ensure feed for the place, you sit down and tell us that 'we did not do anything about sheep and goats'. Did you see the related aid, the proposal that we have made, that we are reversing things and that we go 70% towards animal production and 30% to plant production, signalling that that is what we want, that sector we want to support? So this is what we are talking about to make clear whether we have a vision or whether we are in particular serving ovine and caprine animals, animal production. I come to the amendment, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know that of the hundred twenty thousand farms - these are a hundred twenty thousand - 80% is without permission and ninety-six thousand are in trouble? Of course, no.4056/2012 may have attempted to solve the problem, but bureaucratic town and environmental procedures exist. Do you know what an environmental impact study means to go to be approved and done? Over a-and-a-half-two years. So you realise that even the first extension that has been made is zero in terms of the procedure for all of this to be settled. So what do we say now? We are tabling this amendment. We are already telling you that we are working on a proposal, which will provide for two - three types of plant depending on the size of the plant, depending on the animal population, so that we can simplify things in such a way that the local government or the region will end the process. It's not easy because I'm telling you that to bring the law on grazing land, we've been working out a year and a half. It's not just things. So we bring this arrangement into line with the commitment that until the deadline has expired, it will be resolved and a new way of authorizing the stack facilities will be found. Let us not forget, however, that if we did not give this extension, the problems relating to the absorption of Community funds, aid to livestock farming and, as you can see, they would not be matters which are not sensitive to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is adjourned: 'Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improving the Arab Republic of Egypt for cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u53	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u55	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u57	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u59	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u61	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Creating the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improvements of the Arab Republic of Egypt for cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and other provisions’ was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u63	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u64	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u66	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u70	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u73	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u75	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u79	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u81	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u82	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u83	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u84	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u88	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 675 and a special number of 59?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u90	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u97	The amendment under general number 675 and a special number 59 have therefore been unanimously accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 674 and a special number 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u99	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u106	Therefore, the amendment under general number 674 and a special 58 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u111	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u115	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. We are entering the vote in the whole of the draft law. Does the House agree to the draft law as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u120	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u124	The draft law was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Repeal of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improvements of the Arab Republic of Egypt for cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u126	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waivers of immunity of Members: debate and decision in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 9-9-2016 that the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Panagiotis Kammenos should not be removed. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 9-9-2016, according to which the members of the Committee voted after two votes. In accordance with Rule 39(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the request by the Prosecutor for the authorisation to prosecute has been rejected. The committee therefore proposed that Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis be refused immunity. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, or prosecution or prosecution or harassment, conceals political feasibility. Also, in accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague lists his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, will be recorded in the respective minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. The second concerns Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? As far as we can see, it does not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting in favour of the waiver of immunity shall note his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', i.e. 'NAI' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NOV' respectively 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. The vote will take place on the list of Members, their own constituency and the parliamentary group, to which it belongs and will sign it, because the vote is roll-call in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will give his vote to colleagues and so on. Ioannis Sarakiotis from SYRIZA and Vasiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy, who will monograph it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u128	So the House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. MEP Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u129	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and the Standing Committee on Production and Trade present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the 14-11-2014 Shares Agreement for the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of the company "ELLENIC SA" and of the 19-07-2016 Amendment Convention and other relevant issues". The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 58-64
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there has been a letter from a Member from Mr Emmanuelides, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he were here he would be voting 'NO'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 198 Members voted. On the case of Mr Panagiotis Kammenos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 14 Members voted. On the question of immunity, the House voted at 180 Members' votes. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 68a and 68b]] On the case of Mr Dimitris Dimitriadis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 10 MPs voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 184 MPs. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-20-S1-commons.u134	With the consent of this House at 19.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 21 September 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
