ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to this House: In the context of the ‘PARMENES-2016’ exercise on Wednesday 5 October 2016, a trial will be conducted for the Siren of the Greek Parliament, as follows: Local time 11.00, air strike alarm signal for a sixty (60 ́) seconds. Local time 11.05 ́, alarm expiration mark for sixty (60 ́) seconds. The activation of the civil defence alarm siren has a purely test purpose and therefore there is no need for confusion or concern. In addition, the Ministers of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economics submitted, on 4-10-2016, a draft law: ‘Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions’. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP Mr Constantine Vlassis is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 14-10-2016 to 23-10-2016 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP Nikolaos Dendias asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 11-10-2016 to 13-10-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Mr. Ioannis Karayannis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7-10-2016 to 9-10-2016 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Following the Paris Agreement to the UN Convention on Climate Change'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. First, they will be given the floor by the representative of the Golden Dawn who has been reserved and by the representative of the Communist Party of Greece who has voted against. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in today's ratification of the Paris Convention on Climate Change, I have two points to make: Firstly, it is good that many more countries, which had not previously signed such sanctions, have avoided it - while they were one of the largest polluters in the world and have purchased rights from third countries, non-developing countries, so that they can pollute. Also, Minister, we should pay great attention - and I have mentioned this in Doha's previous ratification - to the fact that Greece should stop ranking in the developing countries and be in the developing countries so that our country can avoid any sanctions. A country whose economy has been in crisis for six, seven years, cannot be classified in developed countries. This has the effect of paying too many times fines. In today's draft law, it is clear that any policy pursued in the field of environmental protection and combating climate change is implemented on a state initiative and intervention. The effectiveness of such movements may be ascribed to the maximum when the design has as its result analytical studies and when decisions are taken following close cooperation with the stakeholders. I should inform you here of a study, which I believe you will consider. It was published last year in the magazine "COMMUNICA" and was from the University of London, University College London. The subject of the study was, "Most of fossil fuels must stay on the ground so as not to escape climate change. Most of these untapped fossil fuel stocks of the earth will do well to stay on the ground forever if humanity wants to avoid escalating, to a dangerous extent, climate change and to keep increasing the average global temperature up to a maximum of two degrees Celsius during the 21st century." This warning was addressed - as I mentioned before - by a British scientific study, which estimates that 82% of coal, 50% of gas and 33% of oil on earth, must not come to light, otherwise the rise in temperature will become uncontrolled. The corresponding figures for Europe are coal at 78%, gas at 20% and oil at 11%. The Heads of University College London, Professor Paul Ikins and Cristoph McGlade, who published this in NATURE magazine, according to the BBC and NEW SCIENCE, pointed out that this means, among other things, that states and oil companies would do well to forget the tempting idea of extracting the fossil fuels of the Arctic, while at the same time they should impose much more restrictions on the use of coal. Politicians need to realise that their instincts of using fossil fuels in their country's territory are completely incompatible with their commitments to the temperature rise target by a maximum of two degrees Celsius. A previous study had estimated that any exploitation of all fossil fuel stocks on our planet would release to the atmosphere three times as much carbon as three thousand giants. From this, according to the UN Intergovernmental Committee on Climate Change, nine hundred to one thousand two hundred giants are needed to meet the two-degree target. The new study proceeds to individual assessments and recommendations by region. Thus, it considers that the Middle East must leave almost 40% of its oil reserves - more than 200 billion barrels of oil - and at least 60% of its gas, while on the ground it must remain a very large proportion of China, India, Russia and the United States. The same is true of the most shale gas in Europe, which remains untapped. The obvious problem, Minister, is that such politically sensitive advice will not be liked by most governments in the countries, which are developed but also by the developing countries, which have been engaged in a race of either energy competition or energy self-sufficiency. The Golden Dawn will vote for the specific penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The growing deterioration and destruction of the natural environment both worldwide and in Greece, the intensity of the trade of natural resources, air, energy of the forest ecosystems of the earth, the deterioration of the urban and residential environment are signalling and revealing - in our opinion - even more marked the effects or effects of the development path followed in our country, the capitalist development path. That is why the decisions of Rio, Johannesburg, Kyoto, the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol did not prevent the death, thirst of millions of people, hunger, epidemics and natural disasters that could be avoided, as well as the consequences of the imperialist wars. And these disasters will not be tackled either by the decisions of the Paris conference on climate, because at their hearts they do not satisfy the needs of humans and improve the conditions in which they live and work, but rather by ensuring new profitability in monopolies and groups from new business sectors. That is why all urban parties are voting for it. Indeed, it is annoyed by the government or the ministers when we reveal, for example, that green growth is hypocrisy, since for environmental protection it spills crocodile tears - who? - the Imperialist organizations and international associations of capital, i.e. those responsible for environmental damage, since the environment is at the forefront of the multinationals as a tank, not only to extract raw materials but also to dispose of their waste, as another profitable investment sector, with the result of worsening the major problems of the planet. In addition, the Paris agreement on climate change has emerged from disagreements, oppositions, compromises from the imperialist centres, which have been expressed in the definition of the objectives, control mechanisms and the allocation of funding to deal with it, taking advantage of climate change and environmental problems, as an opportunity to gain the penetration of multinationals into new markets and, of course, for their control. In fact, investment strategies are being developed in new, profitable green sectors - as they are told - in the name of climate protection, which can have a result but are designed on the basis of the profitability of the multinationals, while giving them the great opportunity and redistribution of energy markets and to the detriment of the peoples. This was also reflected in Paris by representatives of both governments and the monopolies, imperialist and financial institutions. They are the famous - as they say - 'development opportunities' which are also given by means of this agreement. Thus, the European Parliament, for example, may approve the Paris Agreement, but we would remind you that the European Parliament had approved freedom of movement for genetically modified organisms a long time ago. And here is their hypocrisy and pragmatism, because the European Union's aim for the introduction of green anti-pollution technology is targeted. On the one hand, it aims at new profit fields for the pioneer European groups in this sector, as well as indirect trade protection by their competitors, whose goods are classified as non-friendly environmentally. And if something is confirmed, the capitalist system itself cannot give a solution to the peoples and the environment, because environmental protection cannot be dealt with independently of the incentive of production, the development path that each society follows. That is why the Communist Party shows that only the socialization of wealth and production means, an economy and society that is not based on capitalist gain, but on the satisfaction of people's needs, can ensure a stable, compatible, conscious, planned and balanced impact of working man on nature and thus on the environment. It will be based on the social property of all natural resources and their means of exploiting them, on central planning, on production with an incentive to social well-being. That is why we call on the working class, the popular strata, to organize their struggle, to reconstruct the labour union movement, to shape the popular alliance on the road to the break-up and overthrowing of the power of capital and the capitalist state, which is the cause of the exacerbation and deterioration of life itself and of the environmental problems respectively. So, Mr President, on the basis of the above, we are voting against this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty-nine students and apprentices and three educational escorts from the 10th Amarousio Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that in this procedure those who objected to the parliamentary groups on the basis of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I will not get far, because I think we are all aware of the enormous historical importance of the draft law. I would like to comment on what the honourable speakers have said from the Golden Dawn and from the JRC - two words only - because it is critical of some of them. I do not think it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to recommend our country to leave the category of developed countries and to go to the category of underdeveloped countries, the developing countries, to say it correctly Greek. That's something maybe some people think he'll give the country a favor. However, I have not heard any political family in this Parliament or in society, which believes that such a development will be positive for our country, even if we are more favourable to pollutants. Let us say something frankly: Go see how people live in these countries, which you perhaps think are more independent than Greece, which is in the European Union, how their own democracies work. Our own democracy, with all these problems, with the country in a collapse, which we denounced a long time ago, I believe it is not on this fate. And it's not worth turning this fate. It is also very important that we discuss fossil fuels on the ground and whether or not to extract them means economic damage. Fortunately in time - and I have it on my blog - I had looked into how much the economies of the countries benefited - clearly with economic elements and not with environmental elements - that extract or not extract fossil fuels. Of the neighbouring countries - from Norway and Sweden, where one is one of the largest oil-producing countries, and the other does not have, from Austria and Romania, which are neighbouring countries with different economic systems, but also from Venezuela, Ecuador and Qatar - nowhere does it prove that the countries that extract fossil fuels have an economic advantage from other countries which do not extract and have taken their economies in other directions. It is a memorial that exploiting the mineral wealth gives social prosperity and social justice, not to say that rather the negative happened at the level of democracy. For those countries that have been fuelled have become the victims of geopolitical interests. Finally - and I will not tire of it anymore - I have repeatedly told the HR's honourable colleagues, who fully respect their ideology and their consistency, that what they say that the battle for climate change did not prevent wars, hunger, social injustice, does not mean that we are not giving these battles. This question, my dear fellow Member, was raised in the 19th century in England by the workers. And it was what? Is it worth the workers in capitalism fighting for social justice, for better part-time for all this? There was your view, your opinion, the current one you expressed, that if society does not change, these battles are in vain and, indeed, they are battles that fall asleep in the worker's sleep, because for a better partition it creates the illusion that the state is social law. So, in this dialogue, Charles Marx answered with the "wage, price and profit" and made it clear that regardless of whether this regime is not a regime satisfying your ideology or your visions, these battles must be done here and now. And I honestly ask you: do you think that if we do not give the battle for the climate - we do not give it at all and expect socialism to come - will things be better for the workers today? My answer is 'no'. And that is why we are fighting this battle, as we are fighting for the social struggles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u10	Like you've been doing so far and you've broken the world. You fight these battles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby concluded: 'Following the Paris Agreement to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u13	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u14	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u16	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u20	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question of Thursday 6 October 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 5/3-10-2016 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the increase of the limit for the netting of debts of the insured of the OGA. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 16/3-10-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and development of the sophistication in Sufflis. 3. The Question No 8/3-10-2016 by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the immediate need for the operation of the airport of Anchialos and the conduct of regular international flights on a permanent basis. 4. The question by number 12/3-10-2016 by Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs regarding the teaching of the Religious course. 5. The 14/3-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the continuation of the worker insurance during the service of employment. 6. Under number 2/3-10-2016, a topical question by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the design for the protection of the public space in the center of Athens, since the cases of vandalism continue. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 9/3-10-2016 by MP V Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the tram and metro projects in Piraeus. 8. The 18/3-10-2016 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the public consultation on the re-establishment of Veroia. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 17/3-10-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, Nea Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the price of real estate belonging to the administrative limits of the Municipality of Troisinia - Methana. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 11/3-10-2016 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the performance of the project "Support for SMEs active in the fields of Processing, Tourism, Trade - Services". 3. The 15/3-10-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about foreign-language school books that are on payment to all public high schools. 4. The 3/3-10-2016 topical question of the cancellation of the Patras-Pyrgos street, Mr. Jason Fotidas, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-05-S1-commons.u23	With the agreement of the House at 10.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 6 October 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda.
