ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economics, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs have today tabled a draft law on 'Research and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION JUDGMENTS Debates and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, of the motions for resolutions: (a) 'For the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament'. (b) 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (FO 51 A/104-1997), as applicable'. (c) 'Amendment of No 2 Regulation (EC) No 670/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and amending Regulation (EC) No 670/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 670/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and amending Regulation (EC) No 670/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the free movement of such data, and Regulation (EC) No 670/2001 of the European Parliament and of the (d) 'Amendment of Parliament's decision, FEC I 163/30-11-1990, 'For the establishment of a 'Staff Account of Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament'. The first proposal by the President of Parliament, concerning the Code of Conduct for Members of the Greek Parliament, was accepted by the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure by a majority of 4/5 and therefore, in accordance with Rule 108(6) and 1, its vote may be taken without debate. The second proposal by the President of Parliament, concerning the amendment of Rules of Procedure, was accepted by the Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. For the next two motions by the President of Parliament, a decision has been taken by the Conference of Presidents of 7-4-2016. Therefore, after that, I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speakers be given the floor for seven minutes each, in order to place themselves on all the proposals and then move on to their vote. I would like to say that it is a procedure which can well and easily be completed, because it has dealt with us at least three times, if I remember correctly, with the relevant committees, with a detailed debate and with a composition of views, and also in its final version the text on which we are talking - the Code of Conduct - in this case - has taken into account the whole debate and received a broad consensus. So let us move on to the process of rapporteurs. We said there's been seven minutes for all the special speakers. Mr. Syrigos has the floor at first and then Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to all the issues, as they are on the agenda. I'm starting with the Code of Conduct. In the committees, indeed, there was an extensive debate. There have been opinions - differing many times - but also a combination of views. The text, the proposal that comes today to discuss it, is precisely the result of this exchange of views and the necessary convergences, which took place after a fruitful dialogue. I would just like to say a few words on this issue and not to delay you, because it has indeed been discussed and exhausted. Similar regulations which ensure Parliament's prestige, also ensure its good functioning and issues of transparency that might arise, even in the form of questions or questions from the people - all of this comes to sort out the code - exist in other foreign countries, especially in European countries. We can also see this in the report accompanying the proposal made by the President of Parliament. You'll see how many parliaments there is. In making a general reference to the preamble, therefore, the objectives of this Regulation and Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure are stated. Article 2 refers to the general principles which Members must respect in general in the performance of their duties. Article 3 describes the conflict of interests. There were discussions on these issues and there was a common conclusion, a convergence. Article 4 concerns gifts, benefits and benefits. Article 5 concerns the use of confidential information and documents for their own benefit. That is clear. The economic issues that may be relevant to this information have been raised here. Article 6 concerns the manner in which petitions are filed. Article 7 refers to the assistance to be provided by the authority, but also to those referred to in the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics. Article 8 refers to disciplinary measures. Article 9 shall ensure the discretion of meetings. I say it using a mild term. The meetings of the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics are secret. Rule 10 speaks of the publicity of this part of the Rules of Procedure. Article 11 shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So I made you a general reference to these. In closing this chapter, I would like to say that what emerges from the debates, and what was the objective of other things, apart from the fact that there was a code of conduct that would guarantee mutual respect between us many times - self-evident, simply recorded now - is that special provision was made in safeguarding the rights, such as the right to listen to whom - the non-denominated - is to be called before the committee for some of the violations provided for and which are within the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal and, also, as regards ensuring that sensitive issues are handled in committee. From that point on, everything else is our concern, namely the proper observance and control of it. I shall now refer to the other items on the agenda. We have the proposal from the President of Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure, Part II, as is the case. In particular, Article 1 clarifies which Presidents of former parliamentary groups are entitled to a posted official until the end of the current parliamentary term in order to avoid abusive requests for appointments. Only the Presidents of the parliamentary groups who took part in national elections have this right to do so. It is recalled that according to Parliament's decision from 9-11-2015, the possibility of appointment of a post-master to a former President of Parliament's Parliamentary Group has been abolished since the beginning of the IH's parliamentary term. Article 2 concerns officials of the Parliament elected municipal councillors. There is an extension of what is also the case for the others, i.e. they may be seconded to the region in which they are elected. Article 3 concerns the lifting of a loose end, which was in existence for a group of officials. The proposed provision gives a definitive solution to the spirit of the application of the fundamental principle of equal treatment, namely the payment of the excessive reduction in paragraph 5 of Rule 164 D of the Rules of Procedure (Part II) of the posted officials of the Ministry of Finance who were seconded to the House in 2009, which emerged after the vote of Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. This regulation thus clarifies this issue and restores an injustice which has been created. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Give me two minutes, Mr. President. I now come to the questions which have been raised following a decision of the Conference of Presidents. We therefore have the proposal from the President of the Greek Parliament, which makes it clear that, henceforth, the Member States, who are deprived of their own residence in Attica, are the beneficiaries of the decision of Parliament No 6701/1994. In other words, it extends to the Members of the State the rules that apply to the other parliamentarians of the province as regards their residence. Finally, there is the proposal made by the President of Parliament, which expressly defines the amount of loans granted by the Solidarity Fund to Members of the European Parliament and former Members of Parliament, the conditions of repayment and the method of charging for the fund in the event of a delay in repayment of the loans. There has been a debate here on this and there have been some improvements. He said: 'aid is in the form of interest-free loans and is paid...'. The improvement, which comes, is: "all aids in the form of interest-bearing loans are repaid with forty..." and others. I won't read the rest of you. I read the two points where the improvement has been made. The amount of the loan may not exceed EUR 15 000 for current Members and Members of Parliament and EUR 7 500 for former Members of Parliament. And then it regulates what happens in the event of the loan debt being delayed and the issues of charging. I will not expand any further. Thank you very much for listening to me and I expect to hear the rest of the suggestions and, if necessary, to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Syrigos. Before I give the floor to the co-rapporteur, Mr Tragakis, to clarify, Mr Syrigos, because there is also a public meeting, that these matters of aid, loans and others relate to a special account from Members' monthly payroll and do not concern either the budget or public money. Because they have reasonably risen public views of how loans are given, helpers have been given. It is not about another measure. To be very clear where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, it was indeed a omission to say that this was not the case. You rightly mentioned it to clarify and make it known.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u5	Sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, won't others speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u7	Oh, no. It'll be one of every party. Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u8	There is the question of what procedure the Code comes for discussion. That has dealt with us in committee, with my question. Because, as you know, Article 76(6) of the Constitution is the procedure of the codes and Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and Article 118(6) states by which procedure the codes are to be adopted. So, once it is passed as a code, no correction should be made, not even to the committee. In the committee, however, we did have three very long discussions, many improvements, many changes and it proved to be constructive. What does that mean? We then decided to do so in accordance with the procedure that we had previously followed, at previous plenary sessions, in the code process - for military matters - and the articles are discussed and voted on separately. We are also following this process now. Another point I raised in committee, and I would like to take note of you, is that this Code of Conduct does not concern the non-parliamentary ministers. The Members of Parliament are subject to the Code of Conduct that we shall be voting on today. There is, of course, the Code of Conduct for the members of the government, who had come by decision of the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, on 30 June 2014 and I am tabling it in the Minutes for it to exist. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the Code of Conduct for the members of the Ministerial Council is not as strict as the Code of Conduct which we are now calling on to vote on. The question is, what is the case with the non-parliamentary ministers? After discussing this for a long time in committee, the proposal was for legislation to be introduced with which the non-parliamentary ministers will also be subject to the Rules of Procedure, which we shall be voting on today in the Rules of Procedure. The requirement to have a Code of Conduct and Ethics for Members is very old and had started since 2008. Here I would remind you of the efforts made at the time by President Sifa, Vice-President Surla, by our respected professor, Mr Mavria and Mr Galuka. They had made a lot of efforts. In 2012, we had brought back a plan for ethics. In 2014, in the fourth evaluation cycle by GRECO - GRECO is the group of countries, which has the codes of conduct and corruption in the European Union - our country participated on 15 to 19 June 2015 in Strasbourg with representation, and that is where a particular proposal was put forward again. So this preparation has come today to be reflected in this Code, which we are calling on to vote on. What are the general principles of the Code? This Code includes ethical principles and rules of conduct and creates within Parliament the promotion, supervision and enforcement of the principles of the Code, and - most of all - it informs the public of the results, which was not previously the case. I will not refer to the articles, but, in order not to take the floor again, I shall make a small regression on the articles, in particular by referring to Article 3, which lays down rules on ad hoc disclosure, when there is a conflict of interest between the private interests of the Member or his close relatives and the mandate that he has received from the Greek people. Article 3 also speaks of incompatibilities and additional activities, namely contracts concluded with public authorities, to assess adequately the application of the rules on professional incompatibility and to create the necessary supplementary legislative framework, already provided for in the Constitution, but here in the Code of Conduct, which we have to vote on, to lay down rules on how Members of Parliament are involved with interest groups or other third parties, which are trying to influence the parliamentary procedure. This is in Article 3 of this Code. Rule 4 refers to gifts, donations and other benefits received by Members. Here has been a very long debate about what is a gift, what is a provision. For example, free television in some way is a provision to any Member of Parliament who is constantly on the channel. So there's been a lot of discussion. The whole issue has been raised to what extent the presents can be, which Members can accept, and we have reached EUR 200. In addition to EUR 200, they shall be recorded. All of this, of course, remains in the Greek Parliament and you will see that in many displays of Parliament we have gifts, which have become gifts. One point we have not clarified, which I have raised, and which is this: if a gift is declared inadmissible, that is to say, its value, or is so valued, how is it returning and to whom is it returning? Mr President, I put this as a matter for the committee, and I put it as a matter for the House. Article 5 concerns unfair use of confidential information, creates rules to prevent the misuse of confidential information, not necessarily those which are part of the criminal offence of the disclosure of the State's secrets, but simply speaks of confidential information. I come to Article 7 on immunity. I would like to say a little bit about the issue of immunities, because here I have a proposal which has not been accepted in committee, but I am returning it to plenary. As you know, for immunity the Code does take appropriate measures to ensure all procedures for the waiver of immunity from Members, does not interfere with the criminal proceedings for Members of Parliament, possibly suspected of committing corruption-related offences, and lays down separate and clear rules for these criteria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. There is, however, a matter for the law on the liability of ministers. It is known that when there is a complaint against a Minister, she is announced by the Chair, she goes to the services of the House and is at the disposal of the parties to judge it, to decide whether to request a committee of inquiry or a pre-examination committee. This creates a precedent, which is not good. My suggestion is that, in the law on the responsibility of a minister which we must change and bring him in any case, so that both ministers and MPs are equal to the law - like all other citizens - the orders made against a minister should go to the Ethics Committee as well and the Ethics Committee should decide for the ministers as well as for the MPs. I say this so that matters are not retarded. I do not want to refer to the last elections, where a political leader was convicted of another political leader with a word that is inconsistent and inadmissible. So that's what we need to change. Rule 8 refers to the disciplinary measures imposed and which are in accordance with Rules 77, 78, 79 and 80 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is more stringent what we are now introducing with the Code of Conduct for Members of this House, but it also applies from the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would also like to refer to the amendments made to the Rules of Procedure, with the observation - I was received by the President of this House, but I have said so on several occasions - about what the LAB is, that is, the mutual assistance account. It's Members' own money. They are retained by payroll, withdrew, and when we enter the House. It is money that is available when a Member asks for a loan. I say this because it has become a great spiral in recent times on this matter of Members' loans. These are loans from money from Members of Parliament. So no one should blame them. There are, in fact, some arrhythmias with regard to repayments and, above all, by former colleagues who, of course, and because of the economic crisis, are unable to repay the loan due. Another positive amendment is the amendment which, Mr President, introduces on the question of Member States. It was something that I had asked about two parliamentary periods ago. If I remember correctly, in the 2009 or 2008 parliament. I had requested it at that time when what was the case for the province MPs was the case. There were State MPs who did not have a roof in the Lefkapedio. They weren't many. Two and all. And now three of them are. They must, therefore, be treated as the province MPs and, if they do not have a property in the Lefkanopje, they too can take the opportunity of helping us. The other arrangements are simple procedural arrangements, which solve some problems. In conclusion, I shall refer to a very dear subject. I shall refer to the matter of the Old Parliament. We are now, at the moment, at the stage we are claiming real data, to have the Old Parliament come to us now. As you know, the Old Parliament does not belong to Parliament and I am glad that the President has now made a committee, which we had in other Bulgarians. We were dealing with Mrs. Benaki, Mr. Sifa, with Mr. Meimarakis and Mr. Petsalnico. We've always done our best. I want the support of all my fellow Members so that the Old Parliament can come and belong, as has always been, to Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's a matter that needs to be touched by all of us. Doesn't he touch you, ladies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u9	He's definitely touching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u10	You didn't applaud, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u11	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u12	I shall close, Mr President, for the Ionian Parliament. As you know, the Ionian Parliament belongs to the House. I shall therefore propose, because there is little money needed to make a small repair, that this repair and a committee of Parliament should meet in the Ionian Parliament, in Corfu, that we should be able to give life to these parliaments, which belong to us, literally to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. There was one possibility of time, because it was among the two rapporteurs. After Mr Laurent, who will speak on behalf of the Golden Dawn, the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, will be invaded, as will the other speakers please, seven minutes. Therefore, Mr Karras, who will be speaking next, will have a limited time, that is, four minutes. Then there's Mr. Papatheodorou, that is, in the order of the parties. Please, Mr. Bunny, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we agree that there must be rules and codes which must be complied with but must be respected by everyone. Since the time you give us is not enough to develop what I would like to say, I would like to ask, if a Code of Conduct is, when the questions we put to the Greek Parliament by the Members of the Golden Dawn are not answered. This is not the case for once, but it is done on a continuous basis. So when the Golden Dawn has tabled dozens of questions and some ministers do not want to answer us with'so I want', if that is ethical? When the Golden Dawn has tabled fifty-two topical questions, from which the fifteen have been answered, why do the ministers want to tell me the code of conduct that is here? Also, Mr President, when a lot of people go up here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u15	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u16	... or preside over various committees and do not respect the role they have as presidents but act as fanatical ideological enemies of the Golden Dawn and either interrupt the speakers or remove the word or do anything to avoid the view of the Golden Dawn, so I would like to ask you and all those who legislate here, whether these things are a Code of Conduct and whether they are implemented. That's it to keep us from fooling around. I have heard the two previous speakers refer to a number of issues, but not to refer to the Code of Conduct at all. Because we will talk about these things, let us also listen to the Greek people to see what has happened. There is therefore Article 1. Article 1 states that there is the jurisdiction of this Code of Conduct we are debating now to control Members both in the performance of their duties and in their general presence in society. So that's what some of the MPs here, who will vote today, probably don't know about it. There's probably some other people who know about it. We don't want to ask you. Don't you mind, as free citizens? Because here there are two explanations. Either you don't mind, because you've learned to live with your head up, to control you and to tell you what to do, if you're good kids, if you're in line with what you're saying. The second is that you know that this Code of Conduct will never apply to you. One of these two applies. If you believed anything else, you should react, because here we are talking about the definition of a big brother. In fact, who gives you the right as an Ethics Committee or as a Bureau of Parliament to control any Member if he is at an event that you do not want to be, if he makes an interview or a statement at a radio or television station with which you do not agree? So you can invite us to ask us for an explanation. These things are unthinkable. But they are voted in the Greek Parliament without saying "kitch". We have already heard the Government and Opposition, and they have nothing to add to them. So this is the freedom you want to pass. We are also starting here and going to Article 2, which states at some point that Members must respect the principles of the rule of Parliament, the commitment to parliamentary procedures and confidentiality, where required by the Constitution or the law or the Rules of the House that we are now passing. 'Confidentiality'. What, then, is confidentiality? Confidence is therefore the Golden Dawn MEP or another MEP who sees something happening which is not right - he may see some scandals in here - must shut his mouth down to a sign of good will and confidence. Obviously this was up until now a few years ago in the Greek Parliament. That is how you were, "summerly", a group of people who came in here and did not touch the interests of the other. But since the Golden Dawn caused you many problems, because the Golden Dawn heard many truths that would not have been heard in Greek society and would not have been taught by the Greek people, you are trying to fade us in this way. Yeah, well, that's right. Let us stress, however, that the duty of confidentiality is only provided for in an employment relationship, gentlemen, and we are no one here. We're not your employees or we'll tell you what to do. If we have to say something, we will tell the Greek people. We are not accountable to you, but we are only accountable to those who vote for us, but to those who do not vote for us and need to know the truth. That's what Golden Dawn is supposed to do, and that's what it will do. So this about confidentiality is a nice tale you have done, so that - I repeat - the Greek people will not know any of what they should not know. We will continue by talking about Article 5(2). It is what it says that Members should not use confidential information and documents for their own economic benefit or for the benefit of a third party. However, under paragraph 2, it is stated that if anyone has done so, account will be taken in particular of the justification for his decision, in conjunction with the principles of transparency and the protection of the public interest. So what does that mean? If a member of the Golden Dawn considers that something must be heard in Greek society and bring it to the public - not of course for economic benefit, these things are not done and you know it - you will be able to call us and punish us if the explanations you will ask us are not enough and they will not cover you, as if you were the Pope here. But if another Member or the government or the opposition do exactly the same thing with another document, with another information that this Member has, and the information he has, he will not be prosecuted or penalised. I say this to see here what we are talking about right now and how much 'photograph' is this whole process. We live in times of great brother - I repeat - where you want everything to be checked immediately. I would like to end by speaking of something that is also in Article 5. We are talking about and say that MPs should help prevent events of hatred against persons due to their racial or ethnic origin, their religious or political beliefs, their gender, their age, disability or sexual orientation. This provision is unconstitutional because, first of all, it establishes a duty of the Member in practice. So, should we as parliamentarians, whether you are at some demonstration, at a gathering, wherever something happens, run and make the police officer, run and prevent any incidents that have occurred? Is this thing possible? In other words - because we are going to do this - there is no way anyone else will happen to us, at whatever gatherings and demonstrations they are - if there are any incidents that we are trying to stop, but we are not going to stop them, that will be bad, it will be critical, and then you will be able to call us to punish us. Golden Dawn is understood to be against this Code of Conduct that exists, because it is purely pre-formative and refers to "photographics" in specific moves and actions that you do not like. We would like to emphasise once again here that the Golden Dawn, the Golden Greens and the Golden Members of Parliament are not your employees and will continue to say things by their name. We will continue to say things with the truth as we feel them, as we do, and that's where we are. Call us to your committees to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u17	Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I felt obliged to come to Parliament to express my opposition to the Code of Conduct. First of all, I do not believe that this House should have said what the necessity of the code is. Do we harmonize with foreign legislation? Didn't we have another legal arsenal to go after the illegality, the slander, the offences? Didn't we have any more arsenals? Or did we have all the other problems in the country solved and had to resolve this matter urgently? Did we have all the problems solved? Does the Chamber have all the problems of the people solved? The Member must have freedom of movement. If he exercises his duties in unlawful acts, as some have done, there are laws and ways to pursue it. Strengthening my arsenal in prevention reminds me of a little Erdogan, namely preventive censorship. In the Constitution there is Article 60, which allows for unlimited freedom of opinion and vote of the Member. Unlimited! How are we going to go now to say that this case, because it concerns individual rights of others, must be dubbed? He doesn't agree to me. He cannot vote for a restriction on the freedom of a Member of Parliament. It is very essential, because in this Chamber we do not know in the future what may happen, what risks may there be for democracy, for the movement of ideas, and I cannot give committees to look for who is to blame or who is not to blame. Because all the committees of the House operate on the basis of a number of major incidents. It's not a judiciary, it's judging. They are committees where there is the beginning of the occasional vote. In Article 61, paragraph 1 provides for the Member's inviolability and paragraph 3 provides that he has no obligation on the Member to report the statements on which his statement or his function was based. We need to be explained by some who are looking forward to what issues he is addressing. If they tell us what matters, and why right now we've come to Parliament to do something, then I may be convinced. But wearing a lot of clothes that fits everyone, I don't know how these committees will work, and what rights they want to drown. We're explaining on that. With regard to conflict of interest, one article only allows the public interest to serve. With the other article you have the right as a professional to serve your personal interests, the interests of your family, etc. That's dissatisfied with each other. Or the public benefit you will serve or self-interest. Because they don't always walk together. Are you smiling? I understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Tragakis ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u20	I don't know what Mr. Tragakis wants. Mr Tragakis belongs to a party that you say right. If you're invoking this to get us all to vote on this thing, I'm sorry. For the first time I see you invoke the Right to convince the Center to vote as the Left. But, anyway, what do we serve like this? If Mr Papastavrou, for example, was a Member and had offshore etc. What would we do? We're going to take him down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u21	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u22	One article forbids him, the other article tells him "when you are a private person, you can serve your private interests". Don't you realize there'll be situations of nursery from what you're going to vote on? You don't get it. Just put the public interest in it, at least in this article, to agree to a democratic citizen's conscience. The other 'no confidentiality, as long as the term of office' is long. What is confidentiality for you? What is confidentiality? I believe that everything must be seen before the people. Confidentiality? So, are we keeping secrets from the people, from society, and that's what's legally indicated? We respect confidentiality, he says, 'as far as the law and the Rules provide, that they must observe confidentiality'. I believe the Member's conscience is above all. All I could accept in the case of the entire bill is these 'Hate sermons', which you say should be prevented. I agree with that. But tell me what hate is and what is a preaching of hatred? One might come here and say a word against Muslims, say. Are we going to consider him an incentive? Tell me about it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Here, so many people are violently bringing against SYRIZA MPs. Is that right? Could we, who denounce SYRIZA Members, be motivators? The limits here are unclear. You must understand that. If you want to find motivators, to build defendants, it's another case. But the Central Association cannot allow you to do so. I tell you that only on the issue of hatred and incitement to violence and hatred could I agree. But who will say what hatred is and what moves, in terms of form to incitement? Who's going to introduce it? I am surprised that the Legal Council of Parliament has allowed such a bill, so unclear, so spacious, 'Super Puma', to fit in with everyone. It is an anchor that, if you think in this Chamber that others will put their necks in the dock, it can in future be used to get anyone inside the dock. And they can't, like the Centro Association parties, vote such bills. One last question, before leaving the Step: The country is hungry, it has one and a half million unemployed. You're interrogating with SYRIZA about who they should be privatized. The ministers are fighting - in essence you undermine the Prime Minister, who had given a mandate - as to whether privatisation should be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u24	Lagard comes in and says the political world in Greece has not assumed its responsibilities. And the ending will be to sign it all. And the Right, too. But we will also see in this Chamber - I imagine soon - the right and Syriza government. We'll see that soon too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Professor Papatheodorou has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must certainly make it clear that a Code of Conduct, such as the one established everywhere in Europe, is a matter of development both within the social, legal and political culture. I think that was also recorded during the discussions in the committee. The procedure for discussing the Code of Conduct for Members of the Greek Parliament in the committee responsible has, in my opinion, been, for example, legislative processing, open dialogue and consensual procedures. And the consensus reached was not a consequence of the reduced importance of this debate, but rather, as has been said, the consolidation of a climate of overcoming conflicts and a constructive debate to achieve a common objective. I must acknowledge from the point of view of all the parties that at least find a useful way of voting in the Code of Conduct that this has been the case, that the amendments which we have proposed have been accepted and, above all, there has been a debate on the substance. Because the substance, in our view, is this: establishing a commonly accepted Code of Conduct is a process known to most of the European Parliaments and ultimately indicates the political will of the Members of this Parliament to commit themselves to a number of principles and values. It is not a law, which is imposed because another authority can impose it. It's not Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is the self-determination of the Members of Parliament, the principles and values that we believe should govern parliamentary function. These principles and values are guided by the Members of Parliament, in carrying out their duties and responding to the need for transparency and credibility in the exercise of public power, namely legislative power. Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure are part of the increased scope of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and seek to strengthen the people's confidence in the mission of the principle of representation and expression of popular sovereignty. Thus, this Code of Conduct lays down rules - not laws - and ethics which must govern the participation of the Member in the exercise of his duties and his social presence. Under the provisions of Article 2, we stress the duty of the Member to serve the public interest as a superior interest in relation to any private or personal interest, as well as his express commitment to contribute to preventing demonstrations of hatred against other persons, both within and outside Parliament, due to racial, ethnic, religious or political beliefs, sex or sexual orientation. The provisions of Article 3 on conflicts of interest consider it important to be aware of the current or past economic activity of the Member, which may affect the performance of his or her duties and his/her declaration. We have reservations, however, about the reference to the Code for the acceptance of gifts or benefits, which may raise issues of impartiality, when their value exceeds EUR 200, when we know that such arrangements internationally, in all Parliaments, are only symbolic and often incomplete. In any case, the value of the Code of Conduct is not determined by the provisions which have ethical content, but by those which are essential in relation to transparency. The provisions of Article 5 are right, therefore, to prevent the use of confidential information for the same economic benefit and not in general confidential information from the Member or from a third party. Finally, we believe that disciplinary measures do not fit in in a code of conduct as absolutely necessary. These should be organically incorporated into Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, we expressly state that we agree with the content of the planned disciplinary measures in the event of an unethical attitude being demonstrated by a Member of Parliament. The aim of transparency and credibility in the exercise of parliamentary duties is, of course, not limited to establishing the Code of Conduct. This introduction merely demonstrates the desire for self-commitment and the protection of parliamentary ethos, that is to say the desire to improve the culture, function, quality of parliamentary work and, as we will vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. I call on Mr Lambroulis, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. With the adoption of the Code of Conduct, as stated in the text, there is a desire to increase transparency, with measures against interactivity, to strengthen Parliament's credibility and authority to the people and, at the same time, it is accompanied by statements on ethics - because this is actually done through the Code - by the mention of impartiality, self-interest, objectivity, credibility, transparency and respect for the public interest. Here it is worth reminding us - and other rapporteurs have heard - that it is no coincidence that the vote on the Code of Conduct comes into force on the country's specific Memorandum of Understanding with the Task Force in the context of the Roadmap to Combat Corruption signed in 2012. And it is well known that the European Union is in the process of adopting such codes, in an effort to clarify the situation and to cover the consequences of barbaric policies, in order to serve the interests of Euro-union capital. Did these codes stop the phenomena of corruption? But the scandals that erupt, when in one country and when in the other, show that these phenomena are not limited, but rather are reared in this rotten exploitation system. Thus, no Code of Conduct prevented monopolistic colosses - for example in Germany, Siemens, Krupp, 'MAN', etc., but also others - from financing, financing, bribing governments and government actors, for a century and more, and today also throughout the world. That is why the European Union's codes of conduct are hypocritical and nothing more. It is ashes in the eyes of the workers, the unemployed, the exploited around the world and Greece. At the same time, these phenomena are being exploited for more general interventions in the political system in order to shield the real power, that is, those who have real power, that is, capital itself. And of course, in this direction they shield when in one way and when with the other. So, if you read the European Commission's report on combating corruption, and in particular the chapter on our country, further issues are being opened to check the functioning of the parties on the pretext of their economics by setting up a code of conduct for parties, but also a code of conduct between parties, trade unions and others. We believe that these are very dangerous provisions aimed at parties and organisations that are precisely questioning the power of capital, which are opposed to the anti-Fraud policies of the European Union and to the governments that are loyally in this direction. What's the aim of this conversation, the conversation, the code? First and foremost, in our opinion, it is part of the overall effort of the urban parties to create the illusion that this rotten system that serves can make itself self-clear, to convince, namely, that corruption, the involvement of capital with its parties are not inherent to capitalism, but is a pathogen of the system, which, with the necessary political will, can be eliminated. Secondly, what is being pursued is, at the same time, to dismantle any particular popular indignation against policy pursued. Which common denominator is projected by all urban parties? Protection of the institutions. Since when are the institutions of this state, capitalist state and society, whoever they are, parliamentarians, judiciaries, self-government, economicists and others, and not corruption producers? How can rot spread everywhere and permanently be blamed only by corrupt persons who do not serve the institution properly and by the institution itself not to blame? Thus, they neither were nor are the urban institutions to be neutral, to stand as white pigeons above the exploitation of the working class from capital, as they cannot be kept clean and undefiled in the harsh oppression and the robbery of the populace by a small minority. On the contrary, there are to serve, enforce and protect her. Has the scandalous amendment not recently been passed to abolish the Excise on natural gas for industries, at the same time that our people are squeezing behind the measures and policies of all these years and the previous governments and the current government and lacking the basic social asset, in our view, electricity, electricity or gold? Why, for example, is not all these capitalist restructurings - which all the other parties support - in employment, insurance, privatisation, the merchandise of education, health and the smuggling of the lives of the people's family? For the profits of who? The pluralism. But at the same time, through provocative provisions, no undeclared incomes of pluralism have been legalised, whether they have been obtained by legal means, i.e. from the exploitation of workers, or from other sources of unknown origin? Will it really be stopped after the Code was passed to promote and implement barbaric anti-grass measures to support the profitability of large capital? It is proof that it is going on these days, and it is assumed that it will take an end, namely the famous negotiation in the context of the evaluation, which is coming to add new barbaric measures to the backs of the majority of our people. Isn't that actually the biggest scandal, taking out the many to give the few, that is, big capital? And this scandal is legal. And that is, in our view, the main thing. That is exactly what you are trying to do through the general principles, along with the creation of a climate of subjugation for the people to anti-grass policies and self-government. That is why we are clearly saying that our people have every right to fight to overthrow this anti-population policy, but also the laws that bring poverty and misery, which trample social and political rights to shield the power of capital. After all, with hard and bloody struggles against the laws that banned them, a number of rights have not been won by workers, such as the right to strike, trade unionism, social security issues, working hours and much more? If you really want measures and not an unadulterated moral statement on measures against the international community, why do you not accept for example - and we do not say so now to the committee, we have said so for years now - the proposals of the Communist Party, namely the denomination of all shares, but also of financial products? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Just give me a minute, please. Remove all classified, tax, banking and business. Why don't you impose control over the export and import of funds? At the same time, the action of offshore companies should be banned. We are talking, for example, about monitoring. We have no illusions that this will tackle the problem radically, but at least it will facilitate control. As far as our party is concerned, we will not stop revealing to the people the plans, the pursuits of both the European Union, NATO and other imperialist organisations and governments. At the same time, the Members of the Communist Party will be at the forefront of the struggle, the working class and the other people's classes to overthrow this policy. In this respect, we will vote'residents' in the principle of the Code of Conduct. We shall also vote on those articles, which, although they do not emerge from genealogy, we have no objection to them. Nor do we disagree with the provisions relating to the three articles, namely the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that we have been consulted, although it goes through the code procedure, to speak from seven minutes to the two rapporteurs and the special speakers of the parties. We will not give the floor - we have said so from the outset, that was the unanimous proposal from the committee - to other Members who, in view of the interest of the debate, would like to see them placed. And Mr Tassoulus had stated his wish to receive the floor also for other Members, or for parliamentarians too. We will confine ourselves to special speakers as they are in the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u30	I shall ask the floor, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u32	...because it has been clarified that we won't go under the code procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u33	No, it has been clarified by Mr Tragakis that although we are going through this procedure, the floor will be given. That is why the debate on the committee's three-hour debates is also being held in the Chamber. It is not by concession, but by the economy of the debate. Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I will not stay, ladies and gentlemen, in Step over two, three minutes. I did not intend to speak, but to state the vote on our side and the Code of Conduct and Amendments to the Rules of Procedure. This is because the debate that has taken place - which was very interesting - on the Commission, has led us to vote in favour of the proposed Code and amendments, but also because our dear President, Mr Tragakis, has said many useful and interesting things, explainingly, in relation to the logic of the Rules of Procedure and to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure and because the proposals we make to supplement these articles have been accepted by the rapporteur in the course of the debate in the Commission. For all these reasons, therefore, I do not think I had to make any particular speech. I went up to the Step just to contribute - if I can - to clarify a point on which I think there has been a misunderstanding. What exactly is the nature of the code and the amendments? In other words, some views have been expressed as if this Code were being dealt with as a piece of legislation, like a law, with a closed logic, strict rules, beyond which the one that operates in the context of this legislation cannot move. This is obviously not the case. This is a Code of Conduct, which groupes together, of course - of course - obligations of Members who could have been interpreted as having also been drawn up by existing provisions of scorpions on various issues, by the Rules of Procedure of the House and even by specific criminal laws. In such a broad arrangement, we also have what we are now discussing. The proposed Code simply groupes some things about how to operate or wish how to operate and how Members should behave. Apparently, he doesn't leave it in his luck. It also describes a few issues that Members are obliged to follow, precisely because it wants to create an operational framework, which reflects the credibility that a parliamentarian must have in his or her function within and outside the House. That's what the Code is trying to do. Nothing less and nothing more. That is why the objections we are making today, namely the code that we are discussing, I would think it is rather out of the question. Interesting ideas may be formulated, but it's like other things. As far as the proposed Code is concerned, I do not believe that his author has praised him as a overthrow of the usual image of the functioning of Members. That's not what this is all about. It's not a piece of legislation, it does. It is a set - as Mr Papatheodorou said before, quite rightly, in my opinion - of rules of conduct based mainly on the commitment of Members to how they can function constructively within or outside Parliament. That's all. In this sense, I think we are right to insist that the Code should be adopted, as well as the amendments to the Rules of Procedure which are also interesting, because they solve problems which were unresolved for no reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis, the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a Code of Conduct always concerns two aspects, directly and indirectly. Strengthening transparency and trust in the institution of the Greek Parliament and in the function of parliamentarians was essential as ever. Transparency and dignity are imperative as ever in the last five years. What is this Code of Conduct doing? First of all, it complements Parliament's Rules of Procedure and governs the behaviour of Members in carrying out the duties both within Parliament and in society. It has specific articles after vague legal concepts and conflicting ones have been removed. In particular, as regards conflict of interest, it provides for the public interest, the conditions and the whole procedure in which the Member must take over and communicate to the House. Article 4 concerns gifts. There is an urgent need to regulate this as well. Article 5 concerns the use of confidential information and documents for their own benefit. The other articles refer to disciplinary measures in case the Code of Conduct is violated by MPs, as well as to meetings of the Special Standing Committee on Ethics. It was an exhausting debate in the committees. I don't want to tire you, but that's all I want to say. The fact that we are establishing and voting today Code of Conduct was as necessary as ever, because parliamentarians are the mirror of Greek society. We must set an example in our attitude both here in Parliament and outside and not cause. We are therefore voting in favour of the Code of Conduct, which will be part of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, we are also voting in favour of the proposals made by the President of the Parliament concerning an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, Part II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, on behalf of the Union of Centres, has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, you will allow me to speak from time to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u40	We did have a problem with regard to the Code of Conduct, whether we should have voted for it or voted against it. We had the view that it could first be useful if it added something to the existing texts. I am referring in particular to the constitutional text, where the Constitution gives the power of the Member and the limits of his action. So we do not think that this Code adds more than it already does. It was not only the concept of confidentiality, but also the procedure for submitting petitions, which, in view of the fact that they are referred to in the Ethics Committee, create on the occasion of a more general - opportune majority, certain risks to minority parties. So we think that, with these thoughts, we have led it - and Vassilis Leventis has explained it - to not vote in favour of this regulation. I would, of course, like to add one of my personal thoughts - and to close my speech - because I was indeed one of those who participated in the committee and I think that, regardless of the final position we had, I have contributed as far as possible to clarify certain issues. Let me forgive this personal report. And I would add, Mr President, that for Part II which you propose to amend, there is no question - we have said so from the outset - because these provisions we regard as positive. In the code of conduct, I can say that we have a strict constitution, we have a strict Rules of Procedure. I repeat that, in our view, the Code of Conduct would not add any more. It has a series of vague legal concepts. I have, once again, a personal position - and a legal twist that can see me after forty-two years of fighting the profession. Therefore, with these considerations, we have said that we will not be voting in favour of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u43	What do you want? You want to say something about The Code of Conduct?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u44	Just a minute, Mr President, to give you something. To the time economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Pappa, wait a minute. First, Mr. Loverdos had asked for the floor. What are you asking for, Mr Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I ask for your understanding. If you don't judge it appropriate, we won't conflict. The climate is very good, it doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u47	On what subject, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u48	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u49	Not on another subject. I won't allow it, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u50	Since we moved within 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but in a peculiar manner and interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u51	Parliament's decision is made. You weren't here, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u52	The debate, as it has evolved, gives me the opportunity - and on the subject that has just been concluded - to vote in a moment, but also on a broader issue which does not concern it - to ask you to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Loverdo, I'm so sorry, I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u54	With regard to the second, in which I see you have a negative attitude, I think, Mr President, and it is in your judgment and assessment, that, apart from Ethiopia and on very important issues relating to the Greek people, things are happening which, if the House avoids talking about, talk about them, hear opinions about them, are as if it works out of place and in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u55	You're absolutely right. We have a plenary tomorrow morning, tomorrow afternoon. The House operates in plenary session. We have legislation, we have sanctions, we have examinations, before the day, the House is open and it operates constantly beyond the committees. We will be given an opportunity to do this, as you reasonably put it, the burning topics of placing. Mr. Poppa, what did you want? You have participated in this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u56	I do not want to oppose you, but I want, because we happen to be people and Members of Parliament, to bring you an incident that needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u57	What do you mean? On the subject we are discussing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u58	Look, as my colleague mentioned here earlier on about the Code, a little while ago I was in the Committee of Greek Diaspora and there was a Minister of non-parliamentary, non-parliamentary, who - there was a dispute with the Qualified Anti-Civilization - said "I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the behind" so, totally deceptive. Is that under the Code of Conduct? As is also part of the Code of Conduct, when Mrs Zaroulia, outside a microphone, a New Democracy MEP, the well-known Mr Athanasios, has suffered, and her family, etc. - Does it call him "tunny" to have a fine and when Mr Venizelos says "tunny" and all this does not open a nose?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Pappa, this is by far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u60	These, however, show that there are two standards here. As I said to you in committee, when we accept unauthorised designations, we should also be deleted from the Minutes and colleagues withdrawn in the classroom so that there is a decency here, as it should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u61	Your special speaker has long referred to such matters. That's most of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u62	He covered us up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u63	I would ask the two rapporteurs very much for two minutes if they want a comment, otherwise we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u65	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u66	A comment, Mr President, only I would like to make, because perhaps because there were extensive discussions in the committees, we were not extensive before the House, and often there are misunderstandings. Every text, every law, every provision has an interpretation that one can give to him based on reasoning. It's the way someone reads something. Unfortunately, some who have expressed various fears, I believe that they have not seen it in a well-meaning way, but have expressed fears that are allegedly related to the declining of ideas or I do not know what else. Such things did not arise either from the debate or are aimed at doing so. The Code of Conduct is not a text that comes to regulate rules like child law, so that I can say that directly. Because there has been a lot of discussion on this issue. So I think one thing is not good or bad on its own. What makes it possible to use it. So we have a code to which we have come after discussions and a consensus, which was really jealous and wonderful, with a demonstration of mutual trust between us. From there on, and those who will apply the Code - the principles of it in the end - and we ourselves are obliged to show whether this legislation ultimately fulfils its objectives. In any case, Mr President, since we are talking about the Code of Conduct, the wife of Caesar must not only be, but must also be seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would remind you that in committee we have said from the outset that the Code of Conduct should not be enacted in legislative terms, because the Code of Conduct is nothing but a commitment by the Members. But after today's debate in plenary and despite the good climate that prevailed in the committee, in which we spent too many hours and too many approaches - we engineers would call it 'the method of successive approaches' - we arrived at a text that was accepted by Parliament's 4/5. So you understand that it is a text of increased power and we want to surround this text with legislative power. Now I have changed my mind and insist that we are well surrounded by legislative power and put it in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, because the Code of Conduct of the Minister is by decision of the Prime Minister. Our Code has more force and it has been shown from today's debate that there could be some improvements on some issues, but in general it is a code that gives us the right to self-determination so that we can also take care of our expressions and our behaviours, because it is something we must deal with. Why? Because around us there are all of what they are, the coronary reports condemning Members of Parliament for everything they do. There is currently a situation in society throughout the world of reactions against MPs from any party. Right now it's for a party, sometimes it was for other parties. Well, these should be limited, we should give them the understanding that we in this Parliament are trying to go consensually. And we need to go to certain matters consensually. A first point of consensuality is nothing but the Rules of Procedure, which we ourselves must observe. Should Members not comply with the Rules of Procedure? So, in keeping with the Rules of Procedure of the House, we must not have certain ethical rules, on which we observe the Rules of Procedure? So I think we were in the right direction. There has been a constructive debate, and that is why we were in favour of it being voted on as established by the committee, as well as the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we have, which I stress to be improved. They really are improving and solve some problems. I would say, Mr President, that we should also make a reform of the Rules of Procedure in Part I.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. The process has already begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u70	I close by: You have already asked the parties to submit proposals on the Rules of Procedure in Part I, so that we can improve it in some cases. The first case I always put and will put it very often is what is done with the parliamentary representatives. We must finally apply the Rules of Procedure, there must be a clear provision of the Rules of Procedure on when and how many times Parliamentary representatives can speak, because that is how ordinary Members are plunged. That is why, in our amendment to Part I, we are going to have some provisions that help both Parliament's operation and to speak as many Members as possible in the bills. We have new colleagues who want to speak and who are not given the opportunity, because they do not have time to do so, Mr President. We need to improve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the first proposal is adjourned: 'For the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u72	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u73	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u74	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u75	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u76	The proposal was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u77	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u78	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u79	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u80	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u81	Article 1 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 2 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u82	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u83	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u84	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u85	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u86	Article 2 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 3 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u87	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u88	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u89	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u90	Article 3 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 4 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u91	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u92	Article 4 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 5 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u93	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u94	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u95	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u96	So Article 5 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 6 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u97	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u98	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u99	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u100	So Article 6 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 7 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u101	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u104	So Article 7 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 8 of the proposal be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u106	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u108	So Article 8 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does the House agree that Article 9 of the proposal is adopted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u113	So Article 9 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u116	So Article 10 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the proposal. Asked by this House: Is the farewell article of the proposal accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u117	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u120	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The proposal was therefore accepted in principle and in the articles. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u121	Consequently, the proposal: "For the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament" was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u123	The House has given the mandate requested. The debate on the second proposal is adjourned: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II' (OJ No L 51, 10.4.1997), as in force'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u124	The proposal was, therefore, accepted in principle unanimously. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u125	Article 1 of the proposal was therefore unanimously accepted. Can Article 2 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u127	Article 2 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 3 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u129	Article 3 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 4 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u130	So Article 4 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the proposal. Asked by this House: Is the farewell article of the proposal accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u131	The latent article was unanimously accepted. The proposal was therefore accepted in principle and in the articles. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u132	Consequently, the proposal: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II, FEC 51 A'/1997, as applicable", was accepted in principle, articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u133	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u134	The House has given the mandate requested. The debate on the third proposal is closed: ‘Amendment of No 6701/FEC 234 A'/27.12.1994 of the House of Parliament’s decision “for a lease of a similar number of rooms for the residence of the deprived owner or hired dwellings in the area of the former Capitalist, MP province”. Asked by this House: Can the proposal made by the President of this House be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u135	So the proposal from the President of Parliament: 'Amendment of No 2 6701/COL 234 A'/27.12.1994 Parliament's decision “for a lease by the House of a similar number of rooms for the residence of the deprived owner or rented dwellings in the area of the former Capital Region, MP province”, has been unanimously accepted and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u136	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u137	The House has given the mandate requested. The debate on the fourth proposal is closed: “Amendment of Parliament's decision, FEC 163 A/30.11.1990, “For the establishment of a “Solidarity Account for Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament””. Asked by this House: is the proposal made by the President of Parliament, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u138	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: “Amendment of Parliament's decision, FEC 163 I/30.11.1990, “For the establishment of a “Solidarity Account for Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament”” was accepted, as amended, unanimously and as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u139	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u140	The House has given the mandate requested. I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against Members. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-12-S1-commons.u141	With the consent of this House at 19.38' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 13 April 2016 at 10 a.m. on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
