ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that President Obama's speech and the President of Parliament are not over yet. He would like to be here, of course, at the beginning of the procedure. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] However, if you agree to start, and in the meantime the President will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u2	So, ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament decisions, Economic Management: a. Only discussion and approval of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2015. b. Only debate and vote of Parliament's Budget Expenditure Plan 2017. (c) Amendment No 2. 5284/3670 (OJ 115 I/23-2013) Parliament's plenary session ruling. I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speakers speak for 10 minutes, the parliamentary representatives for eight minutes and the colleagues who may be on the speaker list for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u3	The House unanimously agreed. I would say that Mr Meikopoulos, the majority rapporteur, should allow us to give the floor to Mr Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece, because he happens to have to go to the committee of inquiry and then proceed normally according to the order we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about Parliament's budget for 2017. As a Communist Party of Greece we know very well and understand the role of Parliament as a civil institution, as one of the pillars of the system and indeed the legitimisation of the most harsh anti-grass and barbaric measures. In view of the evolution of the Parliament's budget, we cannot but note that it was presented from 2009 until 2016 by a 40% reduction in expenditure, which even goes beyond the targets of the medium-term programme. Far from the JRC, populist perceptions. After all, the older people know very well, as a party from a very long time ago, that from the very first moment, after the relocation, we had stressed the need for a generous reduction in parliamentary allowances on a permanent basis, and we were talking about and tabled proposals for legislation on the abolition of parliamentary pensions and the abolition of the other Members' prerogatives. We as Members of the Communist Party of Greece, in practice, also apply this, giving the whole of the parliamentary compensation to the parties' funds. After all, the concept of the Communist Party of Greece for the role of MP in socialism is that it is completely different from the role of MP in the civil system. We are talking here about representatives of workers and other social groups, where they will be heard by the irrevocability without any privilege or extra remuneration of another kind, and this, as is clearly stated in the JRC's programme. We consider the budget to be expenditure which can be further reduced and one of these is parliamentary compensation. At the same time, however, there are other costs relating to the functioning of the House itself, those of the workers, who are ruthless costs, in the view of the JRC and should be increased. We stress this for the wages of workers in the House and not just. Overall, we are struggling for all the workers to restore the huge losses that had been accepted over the past period and not to implement the single wage for workers in the public sector, which is a poor bill. Second element. It appeared from the act that all the effort made by the President of Parliament to get cleansing workshops out of the middle had this important effect, that is, 480,000 euros was saved by the House. However, while the JRC had agreed to leave the 'letter rented' workers, we did not agree with the solution given, namely that there should be individual contracts with the cleaners. This is because we believe that, once they cover fixed and fixed needs, there must be a permanent contract of indefinite duration for all workers with rights, with sectoral collective agreements and with full insurance coverage as a heavy and unhealthy profession. In fact, since the House has had such a huge savings budget, at least one part of this budget should be directed towards improving the working conditions of cleaning workers. It could also cover other needs and possibly other issues relating to consumables or cleansing while better addressing computers, which remain outdated many times and should have been upgraded so that all these necessary functions can be made. From this point of view - and I conclude, Mr President, the brief intervention - as a Communist Party of Greece we are voting 'at present' in the budget of the House for 2017, as well as in the balance sheet that we are debating today, not because there is a problem, but from political point of view and appreciation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. We shall now proceed with the majority rapporteur, Mr Alexandros Mikoopoulos, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the Parliament's budget for 2017, which this year has been drawn up in the light of both the uninterrupted operation of the House and the improvement of its services and the simultaneous reduction of expenditure. The Parliament's budget is primarily aimed at the overall upgrading of the House and includes appropriations for parliamentary allowances and staff remuneration, commissions for the operation of services, maintenance and repair of its buildings, as well as appropriations for the promotion of its work and the promotion of national, social and cultural objectives. In 2016 the Parliament's budget provided for expenditure of a total value of EUR 136.016,000. The new budget for 2017 provides for expenditure of EUR 132.985 000, with a 2.23% reduction, i.e. a reduction of EUR 3.031,000 in relation to the forecasts of the previous financial year, while overcoming the target of the medium-term financial strategy, which is 135.996 000, by 2.15%. Regarding the annual percentage change, I would like to point out that in relation to the 2016 budget it has a 2.23% cut in expenditure. More generally for the 2009-2011 mid-term crisis year - by 2017, expenditure reduction corresponds to a percentage reduction of 40.13%. This reduction also reflects the overall effort to adapt to the current unfavourable economic situation, while at the same time maintaining the quality of the services provided to parliamentarians and services. As regards the allocation of appropriations, Parliament's expenditure is assigned to four groups: payments for services, supplies of goods and capital equipment, transfers payments, costs not included in other categories. In more detail, category I, code 0000 includes: appropriations for parliamentary allowances, remuneration and contributions to the IKA of the civil servants of the Parliament, fees and insurance contributions of the special categories of associates, internal and external movements for public and international relations of Parliament, as well as appropriations for other services such as postal, telephone charges for services, water, lighting and renting, maintenance of rented buildings. The total cost of this category is 126,044,000 EUR for 2017. Indeed, it is increased by 390,000 euros compared to 2016, where the expenditure was EUR 125 654 000. I must point out, however, that this increase in this particular category of expenditure this year is mainly due to the burden of wage costs on the new employer's contribution and the insurance funds included in the establishment by 1-1-2017 Single Main Insurance Body of Law 4387/2016, as well as to the application of the unanimous decision of the Parliamentary Assembly 'Amendment of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure', with regard to new individual contracts, full or partial employment, cleanliness services by vulnerable social groups, as well as women who are victims of violence or who have been employed in private cleaning workshops that have provided services in this House. In particular, as regards parliamentary compensation, it remains stable at the same reduced levels as in 2016. I would remind you that Members' compensation from 1-1-2016 has been reduced by 10%, that is, the total amount is EUR 2.054,000, code 0121. In other words, there has already been a reduction in parliamentary compensation in total by 38%, i.e. 28% due to cuts in the previous years and 10% due to the reduction in last year's financial year, 2016. It is worth pointing out at this point that 2016 was the first time in the years of the crisis to be cut to basic wages. It is also true that the reduction in parliamentary compensation has been likened by the office organisation allowance, as this is calculated as a percentage of parliamentary compensation, with a reduction of 4.9%, i.e. a total of EUR 313,000, and remains at the same level reduced. With regard to the remuneration of civil servants, tactics and IDAC, code 0200, and to the additional and ancillary benefits of the political, military and organs of the ELAS, code 0500, the increase of EUR 2,456,000 and EUR 594,000 respectively, due to the wage arrangements of Law 4354/2015 and the application of the new salary, as the change in basic salary constitutes the liability allowance. It is also due to other wage differences arising from the Single Balance Sheet (Law 4024/2011), while contributions to the IKA are also increased by the employer’s contribution for the Single Social Security Agency under Law 4387/2016. With regard to the remuneration of officials in relation to the private law of certain time and special categories and contributions to insurance agencies, code 0300, the estimated increase of EUR 1.096 000 is due, in addition to the application of the new salary, and the provision, as I said, to cover compulsory staff, on the basis of the unanimous decision of the Parliamentary Assembly 'Amendment to the Rules of Procedure' for vulnerable social groups, as well as for women who are victims of violence or for those who were employed in private cleaning workshops. For this particular category of staff, there is also an increase of EUR 9,000 and EUR 12,000 in codes 1421 and 1423 respectively of the second category, due to the supply of clothing and footwear, to cover staff positions. I would point out, however, that this provision also involves a reduction in the cleanliness costs of the second category, code 0839, since the cessation of cooperation with private cleaning workshops entails a reduction of EUR 478,000. Reduced also, for 2017 by 20%, the cost of leasing, code 0816, for cars to MPs, as in 2016, contracts with more economical, oil-driven cars, of technology 1400 to 1600 cubic. Also stable remains the 13.3% reduction in 2016 for mobile telephony expenditure, code 0826. At this point, I would mention that in terms of providing telecommunications services, code 0824, this year there is an additional EUR 171,000 reduction, due to the abolition of the leased line and the internet equipment for the live transmission of the television signal via the Internet. Reductions are also observed in postal expenditure, code 0823, a reduction of EUR 5,000, for water supply, code 0831, a reduction of EUR 5,000 and advertising - publications, code 0841, a reduction of EUR 4,000, as the largest number of publications is now electronically. At this point I would particularly like to focus on Parliament's great effort to rationalise the building issue, which has started since last year. Already in 2016, a reduction in buildings rented by 323,000 euros was anticipated, as rental contracts were renegotiated. At the same time, significant investment initiatives were envisaged in private buildings. Indeed, in 2016, in this respect, an increase in the costs of EUR 2,170,000 in code 0851 was observed, remuneration for maintenance and repair of buildings in general and other permanent buildings, in order to restore the buildings of the Parliament, in the broader context of the exploitation of its assets, but with the ultimate aim of gradually releasing from the rented buildings that houses its service. What, then, was the result of this effort? It was a 585,000-euro reduction for buildings, code 0813, due to the solution of the building's rental on Amalia Street, 14, as well as the reduction of the rent of already rented buildings housed in the House. It is also characteristic that the cessation of the rental of Amalia street 14, coupled with the inclusion of the House in PPC's discount programme for large consumers, will provide additional savings of 250,000 euros, code 0832. Therefore, the cost for which we received a criticism last year has been and will continue to be amortisation in future, due to the savings resulting from the reduction in the number of rented buildings. The second category, code 1000, includes credits for the supply of laboratory and infrastructure services, sanitary and pharmaceutical materials, items of maintenance and repair of electricity, water supply, heating and other equipment, heating and working fuels and other supplies. The total expenditure of the second category is budgeted at EUR 3,170,000 for 2017 and is reduced by 2,000,000 compared to the forecast for 2016, which was 5.171,000. The reduction in expenditure in this category is mainly due to three reasons: First, the reduction of the planned expenditure for Parliament's electronic equipment for the year 2017, due to the replacement of a large part of old workstations with modern ones and the storage infrastructure supplies carried out in 2016. Secondly, in that there will be no need to provide infrastructure for library systems due to the use of software services hosted by the National Documentation Centre. And thirdly, the fact that the publishing equipment was modernised by buying large printing machines in 2016, with the result that the planned costs for the printing unit were reduced. In particular, with regard to code 1311 “Procurement of Conservation and Facilities”, I should like to point out that this year a EUR 383,000 reduction is foreseen in contrast to the EUR 240,000 increase observed in 2016 due to the supply of materials for maintenance work relating to the maintenance of the mechanical equipment of the Parliament. At this point I would like to make a clarification as this code is in direct connection with two other codes in the first category, namely code 0869 and code 0851. And to be more specific, the reduction of code 1311 is mainly due to the rationalisation of maintenance costs by integrating part of the maintenance and repair work of other equipment into Parliament's building works. With this reduction, however, we also have an additional reduction of EUR 389 000 under code 0869 of the first category "Conservation and Repair of Other Equipment" as well as a reduction of EUR 1,801 000 under code 0851 as well as a first category for "Conservation and Repair of Buildings in general and other Permanent Facilities", which is due to the inclusion of part of the buildings in the European and other crediting service.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u9	You need to be slowly, slowly, Mr. Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I am quite detailed and I think we should describe them precisely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u11	Describe them, but we've been over time by two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u12	I would - if I can - for one minute your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u13	Here, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u14	As regards code 1712 ‘Procurement of heating and air conditioning appliances’, in which an increase of EUR 125,000 was foreseen in 2016 due to the provision of air conditioning units for the needs of the building on the Lenovan road, I would like to point out that this year a reduction of EUR 135,000 is foreseen, due to the rationalisation of the costs of installing air conditioners for this building with their integration into Parliament's work. I have a lot more evidence to quote. After all, we have said more and more in detail to the committee which took place last week. More generally, what we must note is that the budget of the Parliament and for 2017 is trying to match the common sense. I think that a serious effort is being made both in the building sector and in relation to unnecessarily difficult expenditure. One last thing I would also like to point out is that, in general, everyone should thank the political staff of the House for their important work. It is a valuable contribution to the work we all have to do in the years of the crisis. And without wanting to abuse more time, I invite all Members from all parties and groups to vote for the Greek Parliament budget together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you to SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Mikopoulou. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Koukodimos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express - on behalf of all of us, all of our colleagues, the wishes for rapid recovery to our friend and former colleague, Thanos Ploiros. We hope that she will be well soon. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Parliament's spending budget for the financial year 2017 and the statement of expenditure for the financial year 2015, including expenditure relating to the response of Parliament's needs and the functioning of its services, comes to the vote. This gives me the opportunity - and you will allow me to start with this - to make a special reference to the services of the House and to the workers of the respective departments carrying out this difficult task and to congratulate them once again on the consistency they have shown in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, we all feel in this Chamber that the budget of the House should be distinguished from two elements. Firstly, the need to reduce Parliament's expenditure, thus contributing to the national effort to contain national expenditure and, secondly, to improving the functioning and infrastructure of Parliament and the Member, which must and must act as representative of the Greek people. We must also say that the Parliament's budget shows, apart from figures and accounting, the general economic environment, since in recent years it has continuously reduced expenditure and, of course, that is what is happening. In recent years and, of course, on the basis of the economic crisis and the increased needs for cutbacks in expenditure, the House has approved not only a few reductions. And I think it is necessary to note this because it is not a few times that we have seen publicity reports and articles that judge the Greek Parliament's operating costs very strictly. They are right to do so, but I think we too ought to give weight to any references we make to real elements and figures. Because this process has often brought us all together with society that must know that all Parliament's budgets from the outburst of the economic crisis and then fall. And the 2015 budget showed a percentage change compared to the 2009 year of the order of 37.1% from the EUR 222.140.000 2009 to the EUR 139.922,000 for the year 2015. I would also mention that the 2014 budget was already reduced by about EUR 7 million, i.e. a 4.61% reduction compared to 2013. Given the continuous expenditure reductions from 2009 until now, this figure reaches 40.13% in total. In this context and in this direction is the 2017 budget, which records a 2.23% reduction in relation to that of 2016. The proposed 2017 budget brings forward new cuts, mainly related to a reduction in operating costs and covers the objective of the medium-term framework established. It includes the cuts in costs for electronic equipment, the operation of the printing unit and the solution of a lease agreement from buildings that we paid expensive rents in buildings with lower rent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention all this because, in the debate on this matter in the committee responsible last Friday, proposals have again been heard which aim to thank the voters' ears, but, unfortunately, touch the limits of populism. I would like to explain straight away: my dear colleague, a representative of the Central Association, has proposed to the committee that Parliament's compensation be further reduced, as the Member has told us, he must set an example first of all for the citizen. Keep this: The Member must first set an example for the citizen. I have a proposal to make to my dear colleague and to those who support the same view. Immediately visit the Parliament's accounting office and ask for your compensation to go to the state budget, so we can finish this story. There has been a reduction in the Member's compensation of 40% from the outbreak of the crisis and it has rightly been done, and if we say tax is 60% the reduction, and 51.11% from the pension. There have been cuts in so-called privileges, cost cuts in the Parliament's operating expenses. Some colleagues, and rightly they did, did not take the car and especially here in Athens. There may be some people who believe that the House and the Members of Parliament can work with even less. Let's talk about it. But try to open up the issue of the difference between the regional parliamentarians and those of Athens. If you wish, we can do it. However, it is enough with the proposals which, I repeat, only aim to satisfy the voters' ears. Or here's Rhodes next to the Arvanite building, the fuck. You are not obliged to collect your parliamentary compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, you can ask that it be transferred to the state budget, that it go in favour of pensions and the poor, whatever you want to do. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, and I am coming back to the subject of the budget. Given the need to make the best management of resources and reduce expenditure, we are voting in favour of Parliament's budget for 2017 as well as Parliament's statement of expenditure for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Koukodimos. Mr Evangelos Karakostas, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, does not anyone present a Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u19	I should like to explain to you, since you were not here earlier, that the President of Parliament will be a little delayed because he was in President Obama's speech. So he asked the House, if it agrees - and this House has agreed - to proceed with the procedure and, in the meantime, to come. Here you go, Craig. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u20	It is stated that the Parliament's budget for 2017 also aims to ensure the uninterrupted functioning of the Parliament and further improve the services provided to its MPs and services. The 2017 budget amounts to 132.985 000 euros, is reduced by 3.031,000 euros compared to that of 2016 and exceeds by 2,921,000 euros the target of the medium-term budgetary strategy framework for 2017. This refers to a ton of celebrity the budget of Parliament's expenditure for 2017. In other words, at the same time that the Greek people are brutally affected by the harsh measures of the third memorandum, which you have all voted together, Parliament costs the Greek taxpayer for the year 2017 almost EUR 133,000, that is, 3,000,000 less than it cost in 2016. This corresponds to a 2.23% reduction. This is undoubtedly a terrible and inhuman sacrifice and it is really worth wondering how you have not yet come out on the canals of interlocutory, to cry for the unscrupulous sacrifices that you have suffered for the good, supposedly, of the country. It is, of course, worth standing at another amount, the hearing of which partly highlights why the state has led to its current economic mess. 2009 Parliament's budget: EUR 222.140,000. As it turns out, some ate in the past with golden spoons and continue to eat even today. Timely, then, as Alexander Papadiamantis has never seen: “And what is the glazing, the mourning on the ruins? The ruins are thrown away. And the ruins were formed by the incompetent rulers of Greece." All of you, that is! I return to the 2017 budget, emphasising the almost a million unemployed, to the Greek pensioners who lost over half of their pensions, to the Greek workers who saw their wages cut off, to the Greek entrepreneurs, professionals and merchants, who closed their business, leaving on their way to the Greek workers, to the Greek farmers, who see their hard work on the ground being evaporated into the altar of submission in the Memorandum, which Parliament votes, that this same House, which imposes bloody measures on Greek taxpayers to save Greece, has reduced its expenditure for the year 2017 compared to the year 2016 in the glimpse of 2,23%. Now let's go see some elements. The reduction in parliamentary compensation is inappropriate, at the same time as young people are working hard to obtain a monthly amount of EUR 300. The total cost of Members' wages, without the EPPY's contribution, amounts to EUR 27,312,000. There are increases in the wages of civil servants, in the context of the new wage bill, as mentioned, and an increase in the number of civil servants from five hundred eighty-five who were in 2015 to six hundred eighteen in 2016, which simply means that Greeks can be impoverished, unemployed, migrate to work, but your party state, the source, evil, lives and reigns. Inside this unthinkably provocative guerrilla of smuggling public money, the only positive element that we see as Golden Dawn is the increase in the support for the adoption of minors' children of the fallen officers of the Armed Forces, the ELAS and the Fire Corps. As regards the statement of Parliament's expenditure of 2015, what we have to point out is a reduction in the cost of parliamentary compensation from EUR 28 235 500 in 2015 to EUR 27,312 000 in 2016, a reduction of 3,28%. The only thing is that the nation certainly does not thank you, and most of all since the decline in private sector wages, thanks to the memoranda that you have all voted together, has reached 50%. To conclude, the country's present dramatic economic situation, the impoverishment of a large part of the Greek people and the sale of public property against a lentil to foreign and domestic capitalists show two pounds. Firstly, the vast majority of this House is composed of what our country has to show, because you are only productive in terms of the production of scandals. Secondly, it would be extremely beneficial for our country and people, the Parliament and the parties of the constitutional, arc, which cost Greek taxpayers extremely expensive even today, to put them on sale at the Memorandum of Overseas. It goes without saying that the People's Association - Golden Dawn rejects both the Parliament's budget for 2017 and the 2015 expenditure statement, judging them as the supreme act of hypocrisy and the challenge of a deeply corrupt political world at the expense of the hard-tested Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u21	We move on to the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as is done every time, the debate on the budget of the House and the statement of expenditure is being offered for a more general position on matters relating to the cost of democracy and political money. And much more nowadays, when citizens are experiencing the consequences of the long-standing crisis and are now realising the truth. I mean, what we've lived for the past few years. That there weren't any evil people who wanted to punish them, and some good men who took away the heavens. Things were and it's still hard. It is well known that the relationship between democracy and the truth has been damaged over the past few years, because in the ears of the afflicted and frustrated citizens, both the theories of the populists and the theories of the enemies of democracy and fascist structures. Some populists express an opinion that makes the political prerogatives of the few, the rich, the black money and our political system of oligarchic or hereditary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u23	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u25	And fascist views are well known from the past. Europe and humanity have paid them, as we all know where the world was led by fascist regimes, when democracy was missing. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, since many are referring to the kind, quality and characteristics of Members of Parliament and parties, democracy is the only system that gives the people the right to change everything. Fascism is the opposite. Does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, that everything is well in our democracy? That it works perfectly? No, of course not. As we know the crisis of representative institutions and the crisis of credibility of the political system. But we must constantly tell the truth and constantly fight for more democracy and, above all, for credible democracy. Our extrapolation, which took the difficult decisions in 2010, also made decisions to reduce Parliament's expenditure. It is typical, from the table we have in our hands from the balance sheet, that from 2010 to 2014 the reduction in Parliament's expenditure was 38.7% and that this reduction continued with the 2015 and 2016 budget and now exceeds 40%. In other words, since 218 million in 2009, it has been reduced to 132 million in 2015, based on the current statement, while the forecast reduction for 2016 is by 2.79% and 2017, on the basis of the budget that comes as a suggestion, to 2.23%, which means that total reductions will exceed 40%. I would like to point out, in order for the citizens to also listen - those who are following today's debate and who do not follow President Obama's speech on democracy - that the reduction in expenditure this year by 3.9 million is mainly due to the 10% reduction in the basic salaries of Members, whose cumulative wage reduction from 2010 is more than 40% and, together with the tax burdens, is, of course, much greater. This reduction, ladies and gentlemen, is greater than the fall in GDP made in our country, due to the crisis, and greater than the reduction in average incomes, as shown by tax declarations. The reduction in the operating costs of the Parliament, which started in 2010, was a symbolic and substantial act. It was symbolic, because the political system must first assume its responsibilities when calling on others to pay. It was also essential, because Parliament had to help cut expenditure and reduce deficits, the growth of which, together with the growth of debt, led us to the memoranda. The citizens who are listening to us must know that the cost of democracy in our country is much smaller than other countries. It is characteristic, if we look at the 2014 report, which we will then discuss, that the Court of Auditors' report notes that the salaries of Members, the President of the Republic and other expenditure are 30.3 million in total expenditure of 217 billion together with the debts, i.e. 0.014% or 0.14 millimetres or 14 minutes in the grand. If we do the same thing by removing debts, i.e. at the cost of the ordinary budget, it's 60 minutes in the grand. This is the cost of democracy to the Greek citizen. The question arises: do we still have room to save expenditure? We will always have one, ladies and gentlemen. The scope of sound management is always an objective pursued. But there must be a limit and that is the limit that ensures the adequate and reliable functioning of the political system and the independence of the political staff. In other words, it is not possible to reduce expenditure. This is how the democratic systems of the European Union operate, to which we belong, the Western democracies, without meaning that there are no problems there too. The different approach leads either to donors, that is to say to other systems than our own culture, to the holders and holders or to the involvement. Let's get in touch so that our conversations can be clear. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen, have taken up a number of initiatives and taken up our responsibilities and made changes and reforms necessary for transparency in political life, for the authenticity of political representation, for popular participation and control, with changes in the political system. We have made several decisions on political money, on transparency, on clarity, which now also applies to Parliament's expenditure, and the recruitment through PPP and Parliament, for the 'outside'. We have to say that Members have taken the lead in the transparency of finances with 'from the outset', which are now subject to judicial review, when other social groups are firmly opposed and we have not yet managed to impose them. We, ladies and gentlemen, as a party, had the courage to send prostitutes and exotics to justice and to do control over our finances, which others have not done. But now the series of initiatives belongs to the majority, it belongs to the government, apart from the moves of impression and purpose. Because we have a lot of open institutional issues ahead of us. For example, the government has announced the process of changing the constitution, which must pass through the parliament, beyond tours and popular assemblies. We need to see concrete proposals that will change the political system, which will make representation more genuine, transfer powers, resources, powers to the institutions, which are closer to the people, so that there is popular control. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that what we won after 1974, which is the longest-lived democracy than the establishment of the Greek state, must give impetus. In what we have conquered all these years, a long peaceful period, a period of peace and prosperity, despite the problems of the last crisis, we must give impetus. We owe it to our history and our tradition, since the word democracy has been identified with Greece. We owe it to those we honor today and tomorrow at the Polytechnic School, the fighters of the last period, to have democracy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Central left, the social democracy in Greece, believe that, in order for our country to emerge from the crisis, it is not only necessary to fight budgetary or debt. It takes a battle to upgrade institutions. It takes a fight for change and reforms to change the pathogens that have led us to the crisis. The functioning of the political system and democratic institutions is a key factor in change, to which we must insist. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting in favour of the 2015 report and the 2017 budget. Along with our vote, we want to give the staff of this House, the Services, the officials, who, thanks to their own obscene efforts, can fulfil their role and the Members can respond to their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they were first informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty one students and students and three educational attendants from the 24th Kalamata Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker from the Potami, Mr. Spyridon Dannelis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over time populism - right and left - as well as yellowism in the press have found rich food for what it had to do with the budget of the Greek Parliament, namely the economic cost of Parliament, the economic cost of democracy. The loose national memory and the mediation of democracy lead to the depreciation of the political system. They lead to the desecration of parliamentaryism and the prevalence of a dangerous person for the welfare of the country and the people of populism. In this context, all the previous stone years we saw the Parliament's budget used as an extra tool for propaganda of the antimony bloc. Today, when the double memorial - antimony has collapsed at the expense of an abnormal impact on reality, those who speak of waste in Parliament's budget, fortunately, are isolated at the extremes. Let us remember, of course, that it is the quality of our democracy which even allows its negative ones to express their extreme folklore and irrational views, forgetting, among other things, the enormous national cost of the dictatorships, which every three and a few of them are glorifying themselves. We must be honest with the citizens. No city is free. So, not even democracy works for free. It costs, however, which are subspecies which are subspecies, cost, which, however, exists. But that is not unnecessary. Not at all. That is why Parliament must have the necessary budget and clearly a rationalised budget, within the context of the difficult times and the economic situation of the country. We have to convince society that this money is going to be a place. The functions of the House are not a luxury for a few. Through this, all Greek citizens are represented. The House should be able, without waste, to play an effective role for which it is called. It must, of course, play a decisive role in the context of the democratic process, in its operation. The role of the House is crucial for the legislative process. This is the core of democratic processes. Sadly, we have so far given many times, many years, many handles of populism and demagogy. The House is not working out of society, obviously. In the years of the crisis, however, the budget was reduced by 40%, when the country's GDP fell by 25%. In the same logic, and this year's budget, which is a 2.53% reduction, i.e. a reduction of about EUR 3 million in relation to the forecasts for the previous financial year, shows that Parliament's efforts are being made and that it will put its own lira in the resolution of the country's budget. It is therefore right and transparent that is what is needed and what is to be ensured all the time. Obviously, we must all be very careful when using the cost of democracy for small and medium-sized interests. Depreciation of the political system as a result of such behaviour will have incalculable costs for citizens and for the country. I conclude by mentioning a happy occasion: Mr President, we are discussing the budget for the Greek Parliament at a time when we are celebrating tomorrow's anniversary of the Polytechnic, a battle that the young people of Greece have then fought for the restoration of the Parliamentary Republic against fascism. We speak in the shadow of President Obama's historic speech, which, unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to observe ourselves in future, remembering that "I was there", in a historic moment, in a speech historically, about democracy towards his global audience and indeed, on his choice, not his obligation, of course, from Athens, the cradle of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too, for the special speaker from the river, Mr. Danellis. The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we should like to thank the previous speakers, because they have largely covered them in full - particularly my colleague from SYRIZA - by code the Parliament's budget. As Independent Greeks we inform the House and the Bureau that we are voting in favour of the 2017 budget and the 2015 report. This is where we'll make some notes. You will allow me, as I have said in my introduction to the committee, to say that it will be a good thing to put an end - and we are all responsible for this - through our political speech in populism against the Members of this House, the officials of this House, to the costs of the House for small-scale purposes, if you wish, which, however, creates a very bad picture, because the world is not aware of the truth. The truth, as colleagues have explained here, is that in recent years a huge effort has been made to cut costs and waste. It was wasted in various codes, for example in cleaning. I say one example, we save 500,000 euros from private cleaning workshops. It was not an innovation nor did anyone need a doctorate in finance to understand that we need to see contracts and save and rationalise the costs or, for example, the relocation of Parliament's services to public property buildings or to cheaper rent, so that we can also save EUR 500,000 or EUR 600,000 a year. I think there may be even more room for manoeuvre. The rents of the House are still high. I see it's 2,900,000 euros. Let's see where else we can relocate House Services. I say this as an example, because when I brought the issue of the Horn building to the House with the Ministry of Finance, there were reactions from many officials who did not want to relocate. Here I would remind you that for the Kerani building it was paid the public service 200 or 220 grand a month, so that a two thousand-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred. And we paid it 2,600,000 a year to be empty. There is no government and administration, how much rather our own government, which would allow this kind of waste to continue at the expense of the Greek taxpayer and for the benefit of the owners, who fruit the rents, to be clear. So I think both the President of Parliament and the honourable Member are doing a very good job. We Members of Parliament are helping as we can, with ideas. We control, as you know very well, all the codes. We have nothing but congratulations. But I'm going back to the issue of populism. The free and easy criticism from a Step of Parliament to model after our democratic reason for Members' compensation, when I have friends and as you know Mr Kokalis, we also have MPs who find it difficult - come - have a lot of attendance expenses, have both in Athens and abroad, costs to see voters, as we have in Piraeus and anyone else. I'd like to stop that logic somewhere. Anyone who doesn't like and doesn't like his wages, we're in a private economy, we don't live in any strange regime, give him back, give him charities, do what he thinks. We are all doing a lot of work and we are not advertising it, because it is not the role of the Member to advertise his work, because it is his duty, within his function and in his compensation, to feed families, to do donations, to do what he wants. But I do not want to hear from a step-by-step Member of Parliament again urge the others to pay their wages or reduce him. Anyone who wants to, let them reduce their wages. I also made a proposal, it is my personal proposal, I will do so in plenary. I disagree as a new Member in the withdrawal of the parliamentary pension. I do not know what was the case before, but a pension to the limits of a civil servant's pension or to the pension you receive from your insurance fund, EUR 1.300, EUR 1 400, EUR 1,500 or EUR 2 000, is something that we should claim. I have made this proposal open because I personally - and I know many other colleagues too - have worked very hard. We have left and resigned to do "outside obscene". I'll come to that, too. I have had eight months to do 'from a point of view' because, being an external businessman, I had to solve too many issues, the board of directors and so on. We quit all over the place. We have a clean profile in public sight. It can only be that our work together with our insurer, whether it is private, but how much more state-owned, as now resulting from the negotiations and the future of insurance in Greece, is complementary to a parliamentary pension. Sometime we'll be able to talk about this. I made a suggestion, of course it wasn't my proposal. I said sometime to see the expenses, as I saw them very low, of energy. I was assured by Parliament's services that there has been a competition for the deaf. We've got to get the power shells in now. There's money. Do not have the woods, save natural gas in winter and air conditioner in summer, respectively, if there are funds. At the same time, we need to see the lighting, we need to put LED. There are offers now, and the current is free of charge. To reduce even more, as all homes and companies in Greece do, or many of them, the cost of electricity. Finally, if at some point, as other colleagues have said, and I remember Mr Georgiadis very clearly made a statement, the House needs something from us, some of the specialisation we have or some companies' acquaintances, so that we can clearly help the House to achieve its objective in a competitive way, bring initiatives or innovations whenever we can, in any kind of service, free of charge, from people who can make a programming, as I said on the House's site, so that there can be access to people with disabilities, all that you can only ask us to do. We're here to offer. However, if we do not know what needs and nobody asks us to do so, and we will not know where each one can offer his acquaintances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, special speaker from the Independent Greeks. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, please, I would like the floor after Mr Georgiadis as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u32	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, too. I would like to begin by entering the debate on Parliament's finances and, more generally, on the issues we are discussing, and since it is timely, on the subject of the visit of the President, Mr Obama.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u34	You will allow me, Mr. Georgiades, with all due respect. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Members must be present within the context of the debate that is taking place. So far I remind you - you were not in the Chamber earlier - that none of the previous speakers referred to this extremely topical issue. I imagine that this has been done for two reasons: firstly, because they wanted to stay strictly in the debate, which is very important. We have very important things to say. Secondly, because no one would want to take advantage of the Step of the House to make statements, statements and judgments on this very important issue. In this sense, I would ask you to stay on the subject of the debate, because I tell you that I operate on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Members on the basis of this article, which I can even read to you: 'The speaker can't...'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u35	You don't have to, Mr. President. It's just about democracy, and as long as we're at the temple of democracy, I thought I can take advantage of a few seconds on a very important subject for us. Since we follow the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall proceed with my report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the central government's policy is to cut expenditure. Unfortunately, however, the forces of populism dominate both the government over time and in opposition. You have all tried to convince us that there is a development path, but, unfortunately, all that is done is to magnify the size of the state machine and keep the rosés and the party armies. You are calling for the reduction of public debt, but not for a real economy to be developed, but for you to continue with the policy of deficits and a society that depends on you and is bound to be a citizen who does not stand on his feet, but who will wait for a Minister to give him the alpha or beta benefits, such as the timely attendance for his work. This is, unfortunately, a disabled society, built in recent years, and this is the anticipation in which our country has arrived. You are full of defeat for the new generations, which consider lost trouble to open a business or offer something productive for their homeland. You're telling them to the face that 80% of their income will go to the state and what are they doing? They turn their backs and go abroad. They go to the countries that prevail even a little common sense, where the one who pays the most and not the one who is a friend of the state or a friend of a party is rewarded. Do you know what the irony is? That these countries in the rest of the western societies are built with Greek minds. Without any optimism, therefore, without any development plan, no will to change the old-party character is drawn up, except in Parliament's budget which we are debating at the moment, and the state budget, which will be followed for the following year and following the next debate. You expect growth and reduction of unemployment. You formulate in all the panels that you have reduced unemployment, ignoring the latest elements of the Institute of Labour and GSY, according to which real unemployment has reached 30.8%, while at the same time we have hit a record of unemployment among young people, 15 to twenty-four, 49.1% and 49.1% of the population has reached long-term unemployment, which is 72% of the unemployed. I submit to the Minutes and relevant source for you. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, no matter how much we wish it, are not naive. Wizards don't exist. Development will come only when the public's pathogens are cleared and not by simple googler movements, as some people want you to do. But when the wolf of the pathogen guards the sheep, there is no hope for either future. However, we will continue to give our struggle with the same zeal and the same courage. We expect support for those who do not belong to these parties. Let's go see specific items on the budget of this House, let's look at the finances, as you have presented them to us. For example, with the recent reform two Ministries were reconstituted, two more were set up and six new secretariats were created, while new supposedly independent authorities with dadal organograms were also planted. We can all imagine how many hundreds of posted employees will come and stick to all these posts. Ladies and gentlemen, who will pay this public expenditure? First of all, the private and productive taxpayers of the real economy, be they private employees, either self-employed or free trade or businessmen. Then, the next generations, since we're going to load them with four and five, and I don't know how many more memorials on their backs. In any case, for 2017 Parliament's budget seems to be reduced by 3,031,000 euros. But there are, in our view, some points that need clarification in order to obtain a clearer picture. And the fact that we have already referred to it in committee and have not received any response, we feel that it deserves us. In particular, the report states that the reduction in expenditure this year is carried out mainly by the termination of the rental contract on Amalia Street 14 and the transfer of the services to a new building with a lower rent. That is what we are all agreed on. But if it is true that this building will henceforth be leased by the Ministry of Tourism, taking into account the fact that the owner did not accept any reduction in the rent, as you claim that EUR 585 000 under code 813 and an additional EUR 250,000 according to code 832, we do not see a reduction at the end of the day, since some other service would pay the same rent and the same cleaning and maintenance costs. We know, of course, that Parliament's budget is independent of the state's budget, but the Greek citizen is not interested in knowing which of his two pockets you will be empty to pay, and which funds will not be paid. Also, the report states that with the 2017 budget the objective of a comprehensive upgrading of the Parliament is promoted and for a brave opening to society, modern problems, new scientific potential, particular social and cultural sensitivities within the environment of the five-year crisis and so on. Since this objective is very optimistic, we would like to know the specific budget codes which you have estimated to implement. Thirdly, we note that the total number of employees employed in the House in the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has increased by fifty-two compared to the previous year and even reaches the number of thousands of four hundred employees and exceeds six employees in the New Democracy. On the occasion of this and all the counterproductive and wasteful financial management that you are doing, I ask you: What is the ideological and social difference between SYRIZA, PASOK and New Democracy? Absolutely nothing! All of you have worked like a real customer service store. You have learned your voters to prefer you on the basis of the same benefit. We have all witnessed reasoning in various groups: "They don't do what they want. From my pocket not to come out, I am enlightened and I don't care about anything else!" I have heard that too many times, and unfortunately it is sad. I would therefore like to give you some other information, which seems to be a burden on Parliament's budget by an additional EUR 523 000. In particular, code 839, which relates to the private cleansing plant, achieves an economy of EUR 488,000, but code 342, which is staff remuneration in relation to fixed-term work and code 352, which is the contributions to staff insurance in respect of fixed-term private-law work, bear a charge of EUR 788,000 and EUR 213,000, respectively, a total burden of some thousands, EUR 1 000 more than a million. Comparing these figures shows that 523 000 euros will be paid more than this year and I would ask those responsible to explain how the economy is coming from these codes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, as I have said, our parliamentary representative will not speak, so I can have some more time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Code 200, concerning the remuneration of civil servants, regular and private law, i.e. not the cleaners - I clarify this - for 2017 amounts to EUR 44,191,000, i.e. EUR 37,011 per employee, for a thousand, ninety-four employees in this category, while the corresponding budget in 2016 was EUR 41,735 000, about EUR 2,50 000 less, i.e. EUR 35,763 per employee for a thousand sixty-seven employees. This means an increase of EUR 1.248 per employee or about 3.5%. The invocation of the increase in the employers' contribution to the IKA, from 24.06% to 25.06%, i.e. plus 1 percentage point, is not sufficient to justify the increase in these costs. So in a time of crisis and in a memorandum regime, where all Greeks' wages and pensions are reduced or even stable, the figures tell us that Parliament has given rises to 2.5%. How necessary, really, are these increases? Will they contribute to the good of society as a whole? It is true that these questions are rhetorical, in which reasonable people have already answered us. In no case - I make it clear - I do not want to demolish any of Parliament's officials. They are all worthy and help us produce parliamentary work. We are not aiming at any circumstances at these employees. We simply need to see some social inequalities that we see through codes and some money. And the code 291, which relates to contributions to IKA, amounting to EUR 5,578 000, is increased by EUR 1.051,000 compared to 2016, which means an increase of about 23.5%, which is too high, which is also not justified by the increase in employers' contributions by 1%. Perhaps there should also be some more explanations to understand the figures. Ladies and gentlemen, all efforts to curb waste and unnecessary expenditure in general must be praised, particularly when eight other years of budget cuts have been made. However, this effort should be made in practice. Neither you nor the previous governments have done that. For our part, as a Central Association, we are struggling to see whether and to achieve a future government of broad cooperation, a government in which the most appropriate ministers will be chosen on the basis of their knowledge and experience and not on the basis of how many ruffles each of them will make. Only a stable government of a large majority is capable of taking us out of the stall. Let's not discover the wheel. Let us follow the example of countries where the parliamentary work is the result of broad and honest consultation and not the recommendation of a almighty Prime Minister. Even today there are advanced Western countries, such as Denmark, with minority governments, which are indeed a model of political stability. Why? For, quite simply, almost all democratic parties are actively involved in the legislative process and are not parrots of a 'parliamentary feast', because there is control by all parties - one to the other - and no party ruffles are promoted at the expense of society as a whole. However, we believe that there are other room for institutional interventions that we consider to be important, such as the reduction of remuneration to elected Members - I have heard 'whoever wants to reduce his wages alone', but that is not reasonable at the moment, we cannot discuss who wants to reduce his wages, because we are simply not talking about wages, we are talking about compensation - and the total reduction of any pension rights resulting from their involvement with commons. A person cannot receive a pension from remuneration that is considered as remuneration rather than a wage. After all, it was stated that Mr Kammenos has asked for the parliamentary pension to be restored for those Members who have been elected over the last period. Of course, I will not disagree, that Parliament's pension should come back and get the lowest national pension, as all people are living at the moment. And if we consider that with EUR 384 a low-pensioner can live, let a Member also take it. We are not saying that we should not retire if we do not receive a fund, otherwise let us limit it to the fund where employers' contributions are made during his term of office and in general his career. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm not late, Mr. President. I'd like another minute. The honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, does not do a job on a wage and is not an employee. He's a state official charged with legislating. It is the one chosen by society to lead all of us to better days, not to promote personal interests and serve any of his friends. The abolition of benefits in certain favourite groups of the client state is something next, too, which should be limited. Whether they are slow-wage or unnecessary party employees have to move away from state funding definitively and look to do something constructive in their work. I'd like to say one last thing. We could reduce the MPs from three hundred to two hundred. It will not solve the problem, but it would be something for example. For all the above reasons, we as the Central Association vote'residences' in all the budget codes and oppose the reductions for the following two codes: in 1121, which concerns the supply of books, for which we expect some clarification, and in 2599, which concerns the grant to the Foundation of the Greek Parliament for Parliament and the Republic. Both of the above codes concern critical educational and cultural functions of the Greek Parliament and we do not think that the EUR 90,000 we have a profit from them will make a difference. Greece which we envision is a Greece where the worthy people and the capable people, the productive and the socially sensitive. No more populism! No more beautiful words! We want to bring the era of work and production, and we will have those who have these principles on our side. Only with net voters, with clean citizens will this country go forward and we will be advertising all over Western Europe and not the laughingstock we have at the moment. Thank you very much for your time and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u38	I should like to inform the House that there has been a tolerance for Mr Georgiadis because he had himself said that there would be no parliamentary representative from his party, so a time taken into account. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate held every year in the House on its budget is not a formal debate. I have the honour as a Member of Parliament for the last eight years to be rapporteur several times in this debate. I say this because the debate itself actually refers to a debate on democracy. I would remind you that we all know that democracy in Greece, restored in 1974, is a young democracy, a democracy that is strong, a democracy that embraces the overwhelming majority of the parties that are presently involved in Parliament, but a democracy that at the very heart of its operation has parliamentaryism. A parliamentaryism, however, ladies and gentlemen, which was hurt and tested mainly after 2009, as Greece entered a very difficult environment of fiscal adjustment rather than accidentally. Many responsibilities have shown the House on behalf of the citizens. In particular, however, there were two categories of rivals, populists and zeros. It was the populists who were moving and are even moving today in the direction of a view for Parliament which will be the next day the elites and the rich. It is the zero ones who, again in a populist and demagogic way, are referring to a dismantling of Parliament. The citizens, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that the dust of general populism has fallen and we can look into the eyes more clearly - they must know - and they know it - that democracy has a cost, and that costs a certain amount of quantification. That is why I have taken the floor, because I want to give two figures to the House, which I believe are useful to Members in their daily debate with the citizens. Indeed, since 2009, there has been a serious rationalisation of Parliament's expenditure, multiple than the overall rationalisation of the economy. In particular, 40% have been cut over all these years in terms of the operating costs of Parliament and in terms of parliamentary allowances, together with the general tax burden, the specific tax burden, is 55%. But let us see now what the cost of democracy is, which I think is the most important element, because in the daily debate that is taking place, this is the cost element for what we believe and serve, namely democracy, which we said is Parliament itself. For this year the Parliament's budget forecast for 2017, according to the budget, amounts to EUR 132,985,000. This element can only be compared with two sizes. The first size is tax revenue 2017, as foreseen by the draft budget submitted to Parliament by the Government and the other is GDP at forecast level again in 2017 with the draft budget. By comparing these two figures, one takes the following number: The cost of democracy in Greece compared to annual tax revenues is 0.27%. And when compared to the country's GDP, it amounts to 0.072%. That, Mr President, is the cost of democracy, a cost which is worth there being for those who believe in democracy, because without the functioning of Parliament or if we go to the other logic of the populists, things will not be the way they should be in a healthy democracy, as we want and dream of it. The new Republic is voting for Parliament's budget, as our rapporteur, Mr Koukodemou, said. It also votes in favour of Parliament's statement of expenditure, and I should like to congratulate the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative on their efforts and thank them on behalf of the New Democracy for enabling us to operate within the parliamentary democracy we want and must be in a modern state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr Ioannis Vroutis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Mada, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u41	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Ioannis Sahinides from the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less time. I won't tire you. The current debate concerns the draft law on Parliament's budget for the financial year 2017 and the statement of Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2015. Within a festive climate, the budget for Parliament's expenditure for 2017 was submitted and the 2015 report, as we said, was, however, at a particular time for the Greek people, who has literally dried up, making available the little money he had saved in the years of his work to pay what the Memorandum governments have agreed in recent years. The budget of the Parliament, which admits that it is necessary for the uninterrupted functioning of EUR 132,985,000, which each Greek citizen has paid from his lap. Amidst rumours and indications about a fourth memorandum and news about the application of the Greeks' deposits, the occupant government of the "first time left" of pleasure announces the following: Parliament's budget and for the year 2017 it is essential to ensure the uninterrupted operation of the Parliament in order to further improve the services provided to Members and its services. The 2017 budget amounts, as I said, to EUR 132.985 000. It is reduced by 3,031,000 euros compared to that of 2016 - a reduction of 2,23% - and covers by 2,921,000 euros the target of the Medium-term Financial Strategy, which is EUR 135,906,000, at 2,15% for 2017, a reduction of 2,23% for its operating needs. This, ladies and gentlemen of the constitutional and systemic arch, must be communicated to the Greek pensioner, who lost more than half of his pension, to the Greek worker, who has been unemployed for years now, to the Greek businessman and trader, who has closed his business, while leaving to the streets and employees, whom he was employed, to the Greek farmer, who sees his hard work from the hard work of the earth to evaporate into the altar of subjection in the institutions, as you baptized them. And not forget, of course, the families of those who have put an end to their lives at the expense of the financial difficulties that you have all created. In fact, the EUR 2 million above to 'weigher' employees you will hire is to reduce unemployment or to build your party army? Did you, of course, reduce the amount of uniforms and the number of them in the service of the House, but really why? Why do they not need or why do your disobedience to anything that the nationalist brings, for it brings you allergy? After all, you needed this money to serve your offices by "yours" children, who had to compensate for their years of service in neuro-algal decision-making centres, such as Exarcheia, for example. Only the Members of the Golden Dawn had the eloquence, seeing this situation, in which the Greek people have arrived, to keep from compensation only this amount that corresponds to the wages of the Greek officer and the rest to make available for the relief of our Greek unemployed and poor compatriots. But you also deprive us of that by your anti-racist law, the only purpose of which is to promote racism against the Greeks and, of course, to retain the subsidies of the Golden Dawn, the third political party, for the time being, because the best is to come. The Golden Dawn, therefore, in the immediate future as a national government, aims to stop all this smuggling of public money and make it available to those in real need, supporting each Greek for a decent life and for a strong Greece, which can respond directly to any threat, external or internal. So we stand in the face of our responsibilities, against all of you who, for a euro above and for the chair you sit with the worst enemies of our proud nation and say that we will not consent to any democracies towards the "logues", which in itself makes it irritable to the Greek people who suffer. 'No', therefore, gentlemen, both in your budget and in your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Loverdos is here? Oh, no. Mr. Amyras is missing, Mr. Papachristopoulos is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Loverdos is here, but he's on the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u46	Let Mr. Madas speak and tell Mr. Loverdos to speak, if he wants to come, because then the President of this House will talk and close. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we all see that there is a very systematic effort in recent times from the Bureau of Parliament, from President Nikos Voutsi, from all the officials and services, to have a real procedure for rationalising Parliament's expenditure and for there to be a plan - it has also been developed in the debates we have been having in Parliament - real rationalisation over time, for example in the area of building infrastructures. And I am referring to the very important work that is being done there. There have also been symbolic and substantial moves, such as the abolition of cleaning works, which, in our opinion, show a different orientation to Parliament's work, which shows a very systematic effort, in a democratic spirit, which I think is supported by the overwhelming majority of this House. And I would like to congratulate all the actors in Parliament who are struggling with this prospect. They have been heard in this Chamber, in particular from a number of aspects - and from the point of view of which I personally did not expect, I mean the Union of Centres - a number of objections and various concerns that rather bad omens bear and show. And I say this because, days that are, we all have to remember that the function of democracy is something that, however fascism and darkness are in fact seeking to dismantle and abolish, has been watered with the blood of the struggles of the Greek people, the struggles for democracy. No matter how hard they're trying, we're gonna go behind this. And I think that a firm message to the Greek people must be that we will in every way defend our democratic function. And that, of course, has absolutely nothing to do with - and the evidence, which has been repeated many times here, proves it - by situations which remind or leave any emblem in the operation of Parliament for other types of practices that we have experienced, yes, in previous situations. And I think we are now more wise, wiser and approaching these issues in a much clearer way, I would say. Therefore, in the question that exists in both our world and our people, if this function, as it is, has been structured, as it stands, it offers our democracy, I think the clear answer is: absolutely yes. And I would say, indeed, that it has been swallowed, for anyone who wants to see things clearly, especially in the last few years, any literature has been developed for excessive privileges, etc. I think we can and should go much faster on modernizations and on Parliament's own functioning by entering the digital age, saving other resources. We have room for savings in this respect and in the development of technology and other things. We have room for saving resources from the regularization and design in-depth and the real estate upgrade of all the functions of the Parliament. We have scope and any privileges left to the Members to streamline them even further - a characteristic example is the question of cars and how much we have really gained from this rationalisation - and to be able in a clear way by speaking to the Greek people - because it concerns him - to defend this function that is absolutely necessary for our democratic citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Manda. We can give the floor here to President Nikolao Voutsi, in order to complete the process that we have today. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity - and we did so last year and the other years - that, on the occasion of the debate on the budget, there should be wider issues relating to the tactics, politics, the perception of the functioning of the House and, of course, of the resulting cost in relation to this operation. I would like to begin by thanking the services of the House, the staff, the Directors-General, the Directors-General, all who, under the responsibility of the Secretary-General and the responsibility of all of us, are struggling every day to implement and implement the Parliament's budget transparently, not to lose sight of the potential for efficiency and efficiency in this effort that is done daily in Parliament's functions and services. And I really think that all these efforts are being made across-the-board. I should like to come to a few points which I think should be noted today. We had said that we would not move towards a perception of an inertia, of a relative misery, of reducing activities in the name and on the occasion of the crisis, and I think that this direction is the right one, because this House must not reflect, reflect and ultimately discipline in a perception of stagnation in the crisis. It should, without obviously unnecessary waste and without being at a different wavelength from what our society is experiencing, be the forefront of the country's exit from the crisis, for a new hope for the whole world and society. And that is what I think should come out of the relationships that society is building with Parliament and Parliament with society. It's not about a rhetoric. In this sense, all the measures - to which the rapporteurs have referred - modernization, rationalisation, structural changes already made in the Rules of Procedure relating to ownership, legal support services and strategic labelling of new roads for the operation of Parliament, building infrastructures, all of which are in a way gloomy in some numbers and in some codes are central to a strategy, in which the very large - not just the majority - of the Members of Parliament and the parties agree. We've got it all together. We are moving forward - step by step so that the House, from time to time, can be evident that it has much better services but also a better relationship with society. There are particularly serious issues that will concern us in the next few months and have dealt with us in the past few months and which show precisely the importance of the House as a function, as a central supporting role for democracy through its existence. Let me refer to two - three of them. One is the question of the independent authorities. This typical function, which, according to the Constitution, has been given to Parliament and indeed to form very large majority voting, has led to the possibility of all five constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities being convened from the outset with major majority voting, and has given more and more discussion within the independent committees and, on the basis of the experience of the many years now available, even if the independent authorities are in the shell of the House. In other words, it must not be at every ministry - for those who know this, I will not go into it now - but belong together - to the constitutionally established authorities - by means of a legislation in the capacity, in control which either is established by the House, financial support or the possibility of secondment by officials or others, and of becoming an organic part of the operation of Parliament, Parliament, as a counterweight, of course, because, as such, they have been established toward the executive. I am not talking about administration, obviously, - no one has such ideas and thoughts - because that would be contrary to the autonomy of legislative power and the legislative work that is being done in this House, but there would be a closer relationship. Let's keep this. It is important, because there are other ideas there, such as some of these principles, to gain regulation and the right of opinion and proposal on legislative matters and so on. It is a very serious issue. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We have also been very concerned about - and, after a great deal of effort and understanding, there has been a modus vivendi - how Parliament's finances will not only be controlled - and there is even pressure from Parliament's services and in order to keep preventive control, and we know that preventive control is being brought to an end in public finances and that there is only one way of repressive or individual other controls - but there has been a substantial consensus, against a logic that was diffused that Parliament should, despite the explicit constitutional autonomy of its finances, be led as part of a formal and effective inclusion in the central government and its bodies beyond that it belongs to these codes for statistical purposes, as required by public finances. Alongside this, there has been a lot of discussion with the General Accounting Office of the State and with the relevant ministers, it has also been in the past, and we have gone to a substantial conclusion that completely keeps the autonomy of the administration of finances, but at the same time it is clear - and this has long been done - that there is a matching, control, transparency, adaptation to the general public finance rules. I come to the subject of the channel, where there has also been occasional public debate of interest. I want to tell you directly, that there is a great interest in the Greek people in the conditions that we are experiencing now, if you want, and in the conditions that, to a certain extent, the House itself, too, operates on the limits of the regularity of the legislature, to monitor the discussions that are taking place in the House, or to dense the ranks of bodies that are now tens of them now called and take part in the consultations organised by the competent Standing Committees. The effort, which has also been made in Parliament's channel, is to have a modern, renewed programme, in addition to the precise transmission of Parliament's procedures and in the field of culture and in the field of documentaries and news in the sense not of the current topicality but of the European Parliamentary and Parliamentary procedures, that is to say, a lively relationship and contact. This is not all done without a minimum cost. What we are presenting here is the minimum cost. You need to know, for example, that when we were talking about a House open to society - I suppose everyone wants it and say it - it is very important that Parliament, in synergy with the Ministry of Education, which has the network of libraries and an excellent initiative taken by there, which can be done today because of the electronic systems and new technology, has a central role to play in these efforts at municipal and public libraries throughout the country, while at the same time helping to "tie" this network and to have access to the cognitive treasures of the Parliament, which are available from the establishment of the Greek state until now through this network of libraries. It is a tangible example of this relationship with society. See - you have the right anyway, the Heads of the parties and the representatives who also participate in the board of the institution - all conferences, conferences, and the publications of the Foundation. See where they are oriented. Is it to the news, to the modern problems, to the needs of society? Is it to institutions and efforts creative to all of the country's creative and spiritual forces, who are trying in these difficult circumstances? Let's see the list of all the institutions and the efforts that are calling for the aegis, shells, sponsorship, the minimum, the smallest of the House, to go ahead with their efforts. It is, in fact, a very great opportunity that this House has and which the House and the Parliamentary Foundation hold it through every effort so that there is no one in these difficult years that we are spending as a country, the feeling that the country is sinking. Her creative forces want to present their work, want to have work, want to be close, for example, to refugees, want to be close to the efforts of the Greek people, sometimes to survive, through hundreds of efforts of social solidarity throughout the country, regardless of, obviously, blood, origin, presence, path. So all this work, because it is a project, is an important expansion of the Parliament's ability to communicate with society in a positive manner, in all the new initiatives that are being taken. I will tell you one, for example, that started last year and this year, we have helped to be wider. I repeat, they are initiatives which all or most parties accept and cooperate. That is to say, in Athens through events for a whole month, the liberation of Athens is celebrated, the unified effort to liberate from October 12th. The same took place in Thessaloniki this year by the municipality, by other bodies, etc. The House was and is present in all of this or in the vast majority of these initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is something very important, goes beyond the figures, the codes, the right and practicable discussion to be held, about how much less or more than wage or other expenditure, and opens possibilities through this budget, through this statement, without unnecessary costs, without waste being wasted, the House has another relationship within a very difficult time, where obviously the primary relationship between society and our people and Parliament is in relation to what is being voted on here. Obviously none of us forget, neither of us as a person nor as a party, and we know very well the trial of painful legislation that has been voted or voted for by a majority, the responsibilities which each political area brings along this route. Apart from this relationship which is automatically built - it is the relationship between the pillar of parliamentary democracy and the people - there are all the others, which, through this account presented, through the budget presented, we believe and hope that they form a healthy, creative, coherent and historically worthy of it - it will have a range because a previous - relationship with society and with young people is created. Even the tens of thousands of young children who come here with their schools, and that's the cost. If you want to cut it. If anyone wants to say we cut it off. It's not like that. They go through reports, they bring questions, they come and follow better or worse moments of Parliament, they are concerned, they go home and they are discussing in an environment that the debate is socially confused. All of this and more too much that we know here, not all society knows about, I believe that it is important testament. The fact that all the files in this House have been opened - I mean the topics, the agenda - are not a bit. We could go with a tactic. That is why I have thanked both the Secretary-General and the Special Secretary-General and the Directors-General, the Workers' Association, because they are done together, and I repeat, by decisions of the Bureau and are aware of the Conference of Presidents. We could go slowly, say that there are no priorities, for example, for the work to be done to close them, to keep the contractors, and at the same time to do everything else, and at the same time to open up all the issue of the property register, the premises of Parliament, the non-registered property register. We have done so on several occasions in connection with the House. To open files and issues relating to modernization at all levels, from how this roof will be built in the summer, until in a few months' time each Member will have before the most modern electronic equipment, so that it can be done much faster and much more properly in the House. What's going on in the Library in all areas. The fact that it was chosen to open all the files and until where we move it forward, it is a choice. It is a crisis option, but it is an option that, with this budget, it can be accounted for and irrigated, it is supported and will in any case leave a reserve for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate on Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2015 and on Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2017 is hereby terminated. Does the House agree to take stock of Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2015 at the expense, results from its use and totality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u51	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u53	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u55	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u57	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u58	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u59	The Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2015 on costs, results from its use and overall accepted, in a single debate, by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u60	Does the House agree that Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2017 will be accepted, in principle, by category of expenditure and total?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u63	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u65	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u68	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u69	Therefore, the Parliament's Expenditure Budget for the financial year 2017 was accepted in principle by categories of expenditure and in a single debate by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u70	I would like to ask the House whether it would be acceptable to amend it. 5284/3670 with FEK 115 A from 23-5-2013 Parliamentary Assembly decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u73	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u79	I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a statement on this matter. 5284/3670 with FEK 115 A from 23-5-2013 Parliamentary Assembly decision accepted by majority vote and reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u81	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should suspend the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u82	We are therefore adjourning the sitting for fifteen (15') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: "a. Disclosure of the State Report, financial year 2014’ and ‘b. Settlement of the State Balance Sheet for the financial year 2014’. The State's statement and balance sheet shall be discussed as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, with the appropriate application of Articles 122, 123(8), 107 and 97. In accordance with Article 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 14 November 2016 decided to hold the debate at a meeting and, if necessary, proceed to a second. We are proposing that there should be a card listing of speakers and that the parties should not be given a list of speakers, so that Members can participate more widely. It is proposed that the speaking time should be five minutes and that there should be a rotation of speakers. Only the rapporteurs have the right to do so after the last speaker's speech has been completed. We begin with the first speaker, the majority rapporteur, Alexandros Mikopoulou. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt the balance sheet and balance sheet are two very important instruments, since the facts of the government in question are, in fact, financially illusory. We are therefore called upon to check and see whether the objectives set by the state budget have been achieved and, in fact, to what extent government policy has been implemented and to what extent political objectives have been achieved. However, we must note that in this case, for the second consecutive year, we have been in the very same contradictory position. Who's that? We are called upon to present and comment on the results of a budget, this 2014, drawn up and executed by another government, based on government policy practice, which was completely different to principles and values from ours. To become more specific, therefore, I refer to a policy mix, which has as a key mark the implementation of a suffocating financial framework, which has been based on two dominant features. On the one hand, budgetary burdens which have depleted citizens' burdens and, on the other, drastic cuts in social costs, such as health, welfare and education, in fact, forming a universal strial. So let's see more detail here of the accounts and balance sheet figures for the financial year 2014. The statement records a government budget deficit of 673 million euros, which is 0.38% of GDP, while a primary surplus of 4.597 000 euros was foreseen in the State Budget report of 2014. A central government deficit amounting to EUR 4,842,000 or 2.7% of GDP was recorded, which goes far beyond the target set in the draft report for EUR 1,553,000,000. Net revenue received for the financial year 2014 amounted to EUR 53.5 billion and falls below the budgetary targets of 8.6%. The main sources of this revenue were the income tax on natural persons, in particular, in the form of advance payments or withholding, real estate tax, VAT on other items and revenues from the financing and purchase of preference shares by credit institutions. Many and important are the failures recorded on the revenue side, where there was a significant increase in tax refunds. In particular, revenue repayments amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, deviating from the EUR 2.7 billion target. From the refund amount EUR 3.2 billion relates to tax refunds, which are found to be particularly increased and exceed the annual target. These returns mainly refer to the income tax of natural and legal persons and show in the most obvious way that the fiscal capacity and the business activity of the citizens has been overestimated by the central government. Another very important failure observed in the 2014 report is that of the ever-increasing remnant of the report. More specifically, the outstanding balance for the financial year 2014 amounted to EUR 76 billion or 42.44 % of GDP and is increased compared to the previous financial year by EUR 13.5 billion. Two are the main causes of the formation of a very high percentage of receivable balance. Firstly, there is a very great inefficiency on the part of the central government in collecting the reconfirmed fines, relating to violations of the Code of Books and Elements for the past financial years. The lack of information on the part of the General Accounting Office of the State in respect of the old times of these fines contributes significantly to the difficulty of confirming their collection. The second cause of an increase in the rate of chargeable balance is the non-recording of undeclared customs revenue to the accountable balance. This means that the remaining outstanding balance to be recovered from the customs authorities is different from that shown in the State balance sheet. In the judgment of the Court of Auditors, therefore, this practice directly contradicts the principle of unity laid down in Article 79 of the Constitution, according to which all the State's revenue and expenditure must be shown in the accounts. With regard to the actual expenditure for the financial year 2014, these amounted to EUR 216,9 billion, exceeding the budgetary forecasts by EUR 93 billion or EUR 75,16 %. A very important section to which I should like to refer, is the expenditure of the ESRB for the period 2007-2013, perhaps the most classical financing instrument for the state budget. This point saw a very high outstanding outstanding balance of EUR 2,6 billion because of the overcompensation of the co-financed expenditure and the existence of incomplete projects, as well as the failure to make available until the end of the programming period of committed funds in financial instruments. As long as we remember that in January 2015, 11 months before the end of the period, we received half the programmes of the NRP 2007-2013 in serious risk of losing very important resources, with some of them even being in extreme terms of absorption, for example, digital convergence at just 60%. At the same time, projects worth 10 billion euros more than the budget available had been included, with no maturity or social feasibility whatsoever, thereby undermining the next ESDP and burdening any available national resources. In the same situation, we have also been called upon to manage the development law, overcompensations which have now ended up in contractual debts for six thousand three hundred investment projects worth EUR 6.4 billion. In other words, we had EUR 6 billion of integrated projects, not even EUR 1, for these investments to be paid. We should therefore note in a distinctive way that this government has managed to exalt the NRP programmes from 2007 to 2013. So, in 2015, the ESRB had a 100% absorption rate and our country was the first to absorb between twenty-eight Member States of the European Union. We also managed to settle the debts of old development laws and to pass a new law, which came not only to solve all these problems but also to give a new perspective for the relaunch of the economy and a different approach from that of previous development laws. Let us now come to the balance sheet of 31 December 2014. We must stand by the absence of a register of fixed assets in the central administration. According to the Court of Auditors, the creation of a register is an essential financial obligation in order to determine the sound financial position of the central administration, the non-compliance of which directly affects the operational result of the crisis and the overall deficit from operational and non-functional activities of the financial performance situation. As is clear, all these elements are essential financial infringements and have the effect of depreciating the recorded value of the assets of the central financial position. At this point it is important to highlight the very important initiative of the Government and of the Ministry of Finance, which, in accordance with European legislation and international accounting standards as from December 2015, has already been in the process of implementing the single accounting plan, which will make the recording of all the fixed assets of the central administration take place. Generally speaking, the balance sheet study shows the unrealistic structure of the central financial position of the central government. This is because no fixed values such as fixed and project costs are used as a basic component of the balance sheet. And again, according to the Court of Auditors, this is contrary to the basic principles of objectivity, complete disclosure and conservativeity. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing this chapter, I would particularly like to emphasise the criticality of the period in which we are going. On the one hand, we very much respect the financial adjustment programme and so we have managed to respect the agreed primary surpluses, but, on the other hand, we also insist on our parallel programme by making our social intervention in the world known. We don't want to be blind. We know very well that increasing taxation is undoubtedly too great. In order to be able to deal with this situation, however, it is essential to extend the tax base and to effectively tackle tax evasion. We have already started with legislative intervention such as the ones to combat smuggling, the reform of the Customs Code, the measures on smuggling of tobacco and we are gradually continuing with the forthcoming legislation on electronic transactions. In addition to the new development law, we are introducing a number of innovations. We are trying to relaunch investment and we are seeking to restructure our country's economy and development. The smooth completion of the second assessment, the settlement of the debt issue and the integration into the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank marks the passage of the Greek economy at a completely different stage. Let us hope that the signs of recovery and prospects of our economy will be visible in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Savvas Anastasiades, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called in the House plenary to ratify the state's accounts and balance sheet for the year 2014. This debate is a very important parliamentary procedure, because we are always talking about real things and not about forecasts. Basically, the government is accountable to Parliament for the implementation of the budget under discussion and for the verification of its forecasts and expectations. It is because of this debate that due attention should always be paid to and gravity and, of course, to the implementation and achievement of the objectives set by the respective government. And this debate becomes even greater when we talk about a year like this 2014, a year with intense political and economic developments that took place in the years that followed and still affect us today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2014 Greece was on the last difficult path of a marathon in the last measures. The country's effort to improve budgetary conditions and intensify structural reforms through the implementation of the 2012-2015 Medium Financial Adjustment Framework was the main axis of its operation with a view to further reducing the deficit and returning the country to growth. By 2014, six years of deep recession have passed. The country's GDP has presented a cumulative retreat of over 25%. In 2014, it marked the stabilisation and return of the economy and economic activity at a positive growth rate. For the first time after 2008, a positive growth rate is recorded. Most of the 2014 budget objectives were achieved. Any delay due to the blackmail elections that were provoked by the SYRIZA-ANEL opposition at the time and to the instability and uncertainty they caused and led to a reduction in revenues at the end of 2014 and early 2015. The primary surplus exceeded 670 million in 2014 and stood at 0.5% compared with 1.5%. I note here that in the adoption of the update of the 2013, 2015-2016 medium-term financial framework, there was a deficit of some 412 million. The country had a surplus. It seemed that the long sacrifices of the Greek people began to catch a place. The driving forces of this development have been increasing exports as a result of increasing export services due to improved competitiveness and increasing private consumption. Private consumption in 2014 increased by 1.5%, supported by stabilising the real income available, reducing the general price level and reducing the uncertainty. Unemployment, of course, at very high levels, began to decline. There has been a marginal increase in employment. It seemed that slowly but firmly, Greece was on its way. The efforts of the government at the time were beginning to bear fruit. The government budget deficit stood at 2.7%, increased compared to initial forecasts but significantly reduced around 60% compared to 2013. In 2014, it was a year of budgetary achievement. The government then checked the expenditure, reduced the deficits and showed a will for the necessary reforms. It was the second year the country had surpluses. The Greek people cowardly but firmly began to restore their lost security and uncertainty. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2014 the only tax reliefs, which have been raised by the current government, took place. VAT was reduced at the focus by 13%. Today he's 24%. The excise duty on heating oil has been reduced by 30%, while you increased it. We have reduced the exceptional solidarity levy by 30%, and today it has increased. We reduced insurance contributions by 5%, and they were tripled today. Even the social dividend in 2014, which reached 455 million euros, was more than three times the EUR 100 million for the humanitarian crisis of your own government. The course was set in the right direction, but was interrupted by the irresponsibility of the then opposition and the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. Since the end of 2014, when they made it clear that they would lead the country to elections, it began to change the positive climate. The economic climate indicators in recent months of 2014 and in the first months of 2015 seemed to lose their positive potential. At the same time, the implementation of the budget differed from the objectives of December 2014 and February and January 2015. Thus, the blackmailing and unjust elections caused by Mr. Tsipras, using the election of the President of the Republic, the excessive and unrealistic promises to the Greek people and the dangerous mismanagement of the government then led things out of track. Mr. Tsipras took office in January 2015 and not only did he not continue the difficult and positive work of the previous government, but led the country to the brink of the disaster. He led her back to the deficits. In 2014 it was closed with a growth of 0.4% and a strong growth for 2015 and 2016 was foreseen by all domestic and international organisations. Mr. Tsipras came and rebuilt the country in the recession in 2015, while in 2016 he remained in the recession, causing a huge reduction in the incomes of all Greeks. It is typical and indicative of the damage caused by the current government that in November 2014 the European Commission predicted that nominal GDP at the end of 2016 would be EUR 196 billion. The same institution in May 2016 estimated that at the end of 2016 the country's GDP would be EUR 175 billion. No one claims, of course, that everything had been solved in 2014. But the country had found its way and its pace. And it is certain that if the previous government were to allow its work to be completed, the country would today be out of the question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. The house of the public finances, the stability, the labour force of the previous government, the gainful credibility of our country abroad and above all the sacrifices of the Greek people in all previous years had laid the foundations for better days. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras' brutality overturned this course. In studying, ladies and gentlemen, the figures in the report by the Court of Auditors and the General Accounting Office of the State, we note, among other things, the following: the net revenue received from the State budget amounted to EUR 51.5 billion, compared with estimates of EUR 55.9 billion, with an implementation rate of 92.2%. The revenue shortfall occurs at the end of the year in both the first two months of 2015, which are financially integrated in 2014. This is mainly due to the uncertainty of a proclamation and finally the holding of the elections, the open negotiation with the lenders, the then-false and false announcements by the opposition, including the encouragement of citizens not to pay the obligations to the state. It is a well-known movement of 'I'm not paying'. However, the taxes in 2014 stabilised in relation to the steady decline they had over the past few years. As far as the expenditure is concerned, the government then succeeded in forming under budget estimates. Expenditure was set at EUR 51.1 billion, while its assessment was at EUR 52.1 billion, that is, one billion less. Ladies and gentlemen, our country in the years 2015-2016 has not only lost two years, but has charged many additional billions of money to the poor manipulations of the current government, especially during the tragic period of the 2015 negotiations. The imposition of capital controls has sealed and confirmed the disastrous policy at that time. The overtaxation imposed by the government, the delays in the reforms, the government tripods in any demobilisation and the total lack of confidence make any provision for 2017 seem over-estimated, as the Parliament's Budget Office highlights in its last quarterly report. That's why it's good to cut the celebrations for 2017. I hope that you will be verified and that everything will go well for the benefit of the state and the citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Returning to 2014, I invite you to compare some data from two years, 2014 and 2015, to form a clearer picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr Anastasiades, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President. In 2014, there was growth, small, but growth. This is not questioned by anyone. In 2015, we returned to the recession. In 2014, exports increased. In 2015, they decreased. Unemployment has declined marginally. It increased in 2015. In October 2016, according to the latest data, eighty-two thousand jobs were lost. It is the largest job loss in the past fifteen years. In 2014 we had a reduction in tax rates. Then we had overtaxation of everything. The government’s dues have been reduced. They increased in 2015. In 2014, finally, the country came to the market, even to the test. You imposed the capital controls. Ladies and gentlemen, 2014 was a station year. It was a station for the stabilisation of the country, the relaunch of the economy, the exit of markets and, of course, the discharge from the memoranda. The implementation of the 2014 budget was through contributors, in a particularly difficult environment, both internationally and nationally. Despite any failures, today we must credit the government with the great efforts and the positive results and learn from them. The results of the implementation of the 2014 budget showed the way out of the crisis. The country had been hit by a positive growth rate. Unfortunately, the consensus needed for the election of the President of the Republic was not given by the current government and by the parties of SYRIZA and ANEL. If they had then stood up to the circumstances, in view of the national interest rather than the party interest, the country would have been much better. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras seemed inferior to the circumstances. 2014 should be a teaching year for all of us today and for the next generations. With these estimates and points we are voting for the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u89	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Karacos Evangelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u90	In the 2014 Report the Golden Dawn submits the following findings: As far as revenue is concerned, taking seriously into account the Court of Auditors' statements, we are sceptical about the fact that the State's revenue is accountable and accurately reflected, a conclusion which leads us to the incorrect accounting of the data in the balance sheet. In view of the divergence in budgetary revenues by about 5 billion, 8.6%, which will always be seen in closures and subsequent financial years, as the continuous increases in taxes will have the opposite of the results sought. In view of the fact that the Greeks' tax ability is constantly falling, what will be reflected will be the uncertain and unrecoverable tax debts, which will increase the assets, but which will in fact never be collected. It is also noteworthy that the ratio between direct and indirect taxes is "one to one", demonstrating the storm that has occurred in tobacco consumption, increased VAT, real estate transfers, paper fee and undistinguished tax burdens on all taxpayers. With regard to credit income, particularly in lending, it seems clear that the instalments of the memorandum are granted to cover interest slavery and the public is forced to use internal borrowing to cover direct liabilities. As far as costs are concerned, in 2014, as a pre-election period, after the defeat of the ruling in the European elections and the forthcoming presidential election, it can be classified as a year of benefits. In particular, it should be pointed out that, although it had not been recorded in the budget, the Government made repayments in previous years. The conclusion is that in the Parliamentary Republic, rulers only think of the people in electoral terms, making benefits not from state reserves, but always through new loans. According to the Court of Auditors' report, it is noteworthy that overruns are mainly to legal persons for project construction, but also to interest-rate swaps. Although the exchange was obviously to reduce the cost of borrowing, the Court notes that the latter has increased, since the increase in public debt interest has increased by around EUR 290 million. The increase in the wages of central government officials is also observed by 0.85%. How this is happening, while wages have fallen, leads us to conclude that election recruitment has been carried out, even more so to the benefit of Greek taxpayers. A significant amount was also spent on guarantees deposits, i.e. guarantees from public undertakings for which the State was called upon to pay after their planned valuation and sale for an incomplete price. In terms of public investment expenditure, we can see that the absorption of the NRP 2007-2013 amounted to 80.09%. We think it is completely absurd in this particular economic context that 100% of the funds are not used, especially when this money is perhaps the only positive part of Greece's participation in the European Union. Non-absorbing funds is due to artisanal government cultures and lack of organisation. Overcompensation for some up to 150% indicates overcompensation for projects and supplies between government officials and contractors. Finally, we believe that the primary surpluses are not reflected in the real economy, regardless of how it is calculated in economic science, since the debts are arrogant. We pay particular attention to the accounts, which appear on page 28 of the Court of Auditors' report, which in itself could also be an argument to reject the report. Let's go to the 2014 balance: The similarities of 2014 to the current situation are more than punctuals, which reveals that people may have changed in the governance of the country, but policies of slavery and of safeguarding the interests of lenders remain the same. The same work is now being done with the scenario of closing the second assessment, where your partners are praised for the measures taken so far, but at the same time they urge you to further implement the others, with the aim of always fully impoverishing all Greeks. Let us see some elements such as the employment of the labour force on a national basis. The unemployment rate is measured by the proportion of unemployed to the labour force. Considering these two indicators together, it is clear that the fall in unemployment rate is not due to the creation of new jobs. ELSTAT divides the population by age, which shows that the proportion of young people in Greece is falling steadily, while the number of older people is growing steadily. Comparing the 15 to twenty-nine-year-old team with the forty-five years of age, we find that the decline in the youth density of the population has accelerated since 2007, compensating for an increase in the number of Greeks aged forty-five years or more. At the same time, there is no reduction in the number of people aged thirty to forty-four. So it is certain that this reduction is due to the fact that the people of this age group have emigrated abroad. Given the very high unemployment rates in Greece, it is estimated that Greeks abroad will increase sharply in the coming years. This combined loss of human capital is another reason for making the recovery of the Greek economy much more difficult. Last but not least: the reduction of the working population, suitable for work, together with the increase in the number of elderly people, is causing serious problems in the country's pension system. Current account balance: The current account deficit, which was 16.3% of GDP in 2008, has fallen to 2.8% of GDP. This at first sight appears to be a success of economic policy. In fact, however, it is not due to an increase in exports, but to a reduction in imports, which have collapsed at the expense of a shrinking of internal demand. This is not a positive development, because imports will return as soon as the recovery process of the Greek economy begins and deficits will recur. If the balance cannot rely on exports, it will be a permanent constraint on GDP growth and the Greek economy will remain locked at low levels of production. The increase in export performance was the main objective of the internal devaluation policy. In order to achieve this objective, structural changes in the labour market have been accelerated in order to reduce labour costs. Thus, without an increase in foreign demand and with domestic demand to collapse, Greece lost half of GDP, from 240 billion went to 180 billion, lost 1/10 of its capital stock and forced the workforce to take a forced holiday, which is now depopulated due to oversized long-term unemployment. On the other hand, the tactics of household bleeding continue with a large number of direct and indirect taxes, leading to the inability to repay their bank liabilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr. President. In this context, the precarious and unstable situation of the Greek banking system is due to a significant decline in private sector investment. The capital adequacy of the lending sector is still weak, making access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises very difficult - which is also the backbone of the economy - and it is only given to the strongest and most reliable companies, thus increasing the gap between businesses, creating a clearly participatory investment environment, where the strongest becomes stronger and the small and medium-sized one disappears. Thus one of the biggest problems of the major systemic banks was born, the volume of non-performing loans, a symptom of the debt-depression trap in which Greece has been caught. We also have a reduction in purchasing power. The deflation of wages in Greece has taken place at a rate that has never experienced a developed country in the post-war era. nominal wages in the first quarter of 2014 are 24.8% lower than in their peak at the beginning of 2010, while real wages are 28.7% lower than in their previous peak in 2010. Another aspect worth mentioning is the increase in borrowing compared with the budget forecasts of around EUR 97 billion and totalling some EUR 162 billion. To conclude, all of the above mentioned elements from the true image of the Greek economy, as well as from the elements of a balance sheet showing the weakness of a guided economic policy, lead us to the safe conclusion that the common objective of all the governments who took part in the nationalist memoranda is the tradition of the country, which is achieved by continuous lending, the destruction of the economic potential of the Greek families and the degradation of the integrity of the Armed Forces by the continuous reduction of the amounts for their equipment. The People's Association - Golden Dawn has neither signed nor will it ever sign enslavement agreements and measures that lead our people to extinction. Golden Dawn is not only voting against the balance sheet and balance sheet for the financial year 2014, but also makes it clear that the return of the responsibilities and the punishment of those who contributed to the total destruction of the Greek economy and society will be one of the main works of the upcoming national government of the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u91	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the balance sheet and a statement of a financial year enables us to draw useful conclusions as to whether a government has achieved its objectives, which were the reasons why it has not achieved them, and above all, we in this House are aware of how a budget can be implemented, because for many years in our country we have not only achieved the budget, but we have had a policy that has thrown it all out. Why am I saying that? I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because I will support in my position that in 2014, the balance sheet we are discussing today, was a year that marked the financial results that our country could have a course of exit from the memoranda, contrary to what happened and was bound by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for another three years until 2018 and we are seeing it. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is also of particular importance because it is taking place at a time when economics prevail on the agenda, as, as you all know, 1-1-2017, that is, in one month's time and something, people will start paying the new increased taxes, there will be new additional cuts, in addition to those that existed in 2015 and 2016, in salaries, pensions and social benefits and therefore of interest what we are discussing this period, as is of interest, of course, and that there is also a debt debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u93	And contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u94	And contributions. We, ladies and gentlemen, are well aware that we started a difficult effort in 2010 - in 2014 it was the fifth consecutive year of this effort - with decisions that we made on our own, so that the country would not fail unnecessarily, as the growth of economic growth in 2009 with a deficit of 15.1% of GDP - that is, 35 billion on an annual basis was the general government deficit, so that it entered the'magaux', so that we could be perceived by the citizens - and the uprooting of the debt of 300 billion created a crisis of borrowing and liquidity. And so, Greece has entered a program. I repeat that the crisis brought the Memorandum and not the Memorandum of the Crisis. So we started this difficult effort ourselves. We were always stoned by others from "Zapopeia" and others from Syntagma Square. The financial staff of the Government, led by Mr. Tsakalotou, Mr. Katrugalos and others, were given reasons there in the Constitution along with the "indignant". I remind you. They were throwing rocked rabbits. And yet, we went to a tough attempt. I want you to note that this effort by 2012 produced a reduction in the structural deficit by two thirds, with the decisions we made in 2010. Then there were other forces that entered this effort, the New Democracy that joined very late and has recently joined the SYRIZA. The landing, however, was abnormal and the cost was too great. I would also like to point out that the cost of this adjustment would be much less and the results would have been much faster if we did not have the double elections in 2012, which Mr Samaras then insisted on, to become a Prime Minister. I would remind the flows that the Eurogroup's decision in November 2012, which made it possible to improve the macroeconomic debt, mentions the unfavourable development in the debt profile, due to the double elections in 2012 and prolonged government. The additional measures in December 2012 were about 9 billion. That's all for the story. These are to draw conclusions, to see how the double elections in 2015 also devastated the country. And the simple question comes: Well, won't the civilian staff mind getting out of these multiple, crusading concepts of "go me and do everything on my own"? No one can do it on their own. I say, therefore, that in 2014, thanks to the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people, we had improved all economic sizes. Already the current account had improved since 2013. The 2013 financial management set the basis for having a small surplus, which continued in 2014. In other words, for the first time, we had a primary surplus and for the first time, after 2008, we had growth rates at the end of the year. And all the forecasts of the international organisations - European Bank, IMF -, what the government has now invoked for the growth we will have in 2017, they said that the country is going very well and has had the potential to pursue a policy of exiting the memorandum, based on the line we had at the time: To close the fifth assessment, to take the remaining instalments, to make use of the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund, the balance of the 50 billion loan for the recapitalisation of banks, with a prudential credit line, and to get out on the markets. This plan, as you know, didn't work. It did not work because there was a political overthrow, thanks to the blackmail that SYRIZA, the ANELs and the other forces were terrorizing Greek citizens, and overthrown. And while the government had all these advantages and could have been able to close a beneficial deal for the country, by pressing on this data, at the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people, it overthrown them, it went to the bourgeoisie. And when we arrived in July 2015, in front of the horror of Mr. Tsipras that he will not have a plane, nor a helicopter to leave if the country fails, he went and agreed, in terms of national defeat, to a shameful memorandum and an agreement that has committed the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will need a minute more, Mr President, like other colleagues. Therefore, any criticism and one in the 2014 report, that it had much more ambitious objectives - yes, because it did have ambitious targets - to increase revenue by 2.1 billion and reduce spending by 3.1 billion, whatever criticism and to exercise that it did not achieve these objectives, cannot degrade the fact that for the first time we had this small primary surplus, compatible with the medium-term budgetary strategy plan, and that we had improved all budgetary levels. For the divergence in the revenue side, I would like to remind everyone here in the House - but there are no parliamentary representatives of the SYRIZA at that time and Mr Tsakalotos is in the cabinet - what we were told here. They were telling us about humility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Who would go, ladies and gentlemen, to pay the hundred doses we have set when SYRIZA officials said about sedition? Who would have gone to pay when Mr. Tsipras said he would abolish HISBIA and Mr. Cammenos that he would not pay HISBIA? Politicians called these in front of the cameras. Well, I now come to say that the damage that has been done for the country is too great, we pay it, with what the Greek people are experiencing today. And compared to 2014, with what followed in 2015 and 2016, it is obviously a better year, which, I repeat, was destroyed by SYRIZA's policy and undermining. In other words, the question we are told by SYRIZA colleagues: "But we have destroyed the country, guys?" to say that you certainly did not destroy it, but you destroyed the hope and the possibility of getting out of the memoirs. I shall now say two words on the balance sheet. The Court of Auditors' remark, which was made last year, that the State's balance sheet is not sufficient, is of great importance to the financial staff at all times. Nor was it in previous years - I say it so that you do not think that I want to make any particular criticisms on the part of the government, on the basis of this observation. In the past, however, note the real estate of the public, the property of the public, the public interest was managed by the Minister of Finance. Since this year, after the vote on the U.S.A., all this property has been controlled by our lenders. There is nothing the Minister of Finance can do without his assent. So, the Greek people now have no value to know what the Greek public is, that is, how much they deserve their real estate, their land and their public enterprises? I think that if this remark were to go up, it would go through without any comment, this year we have to show it, because it has changed dramatically the data that have to do with the exercise of the management of public property. And much more, ladies and gentlemen, this, as it will prove in the course, is linked to the debt reduction debate, a debate which I would remind you had started in the past. And then there was a demand for our lenders to build this superstition, but we had prevented it. With this - and I apologize for overcoming time - we are saying that we will vote both on the 2014 balance sheet and on the 2014 balance sheet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC declares that it will vote against both the balance sheet and the balance sheet for the financial year 2014, in line with the stance it had during the 2014 State Budget debate. We believe that this debate is another opportunity - and with low tone we must admit it - for a confrontation without substance between the then government parties, namely New Democracy and PASOK, with the parties of the current government, SYRIZA and ANEL. And with regard to all this controversy, the rapporteur of the New Democracy has already talked about 2014 as a one-year station that has made us clear and recovery, and instead the Minister of Finance present in the committee had spoken of a year that went back to all the effort that had been made by the financial adjustment. We say this precisely because this controversy is convenient for the parties who have voted and implemented the memoranda and anti-grassroots policy, because it is precisely seeking to cover up the agreement they have in the policy pursued, and what they are raising is individual issues, particularly as regards the ability to manage this policy for the benefit of the great capital. What they are putting forward is what is best in managing this policy. So the new government, the SYRIZA ANEL government, took over from the former government, from the New Democracy and the PASOK, confirming that the common objective between these two governments must be achieved through this process. With regard to what this objective is, it is important to move forward and implement budgetary discipline in the context of budgetary consolidation and, secondly, to speed up the various reforms - which are, in essence, capitalist restructuring - which were aimed solely at shielding the competitiveness of business groups and capitalist profitability. The common line, i.e. the'red' line linking the intermittent governments, is nothing but how to implement the objectives of the bourgeoisie, which are today expressed in conditions of capitalist crisis. In this respect, therefore, the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet are revealing. In other words, we are talking about the results of all this effort, which confirm the nature of the anti-grassroots policy pursued by the then government of New Democracy - PASOK, classic, anti-grassroots policy. And we can see that from both the revenue side and the expenditure side. If we do not get too far and we do not get tired, we will only refer to certain numbers. First number. Where was the revenue overturn? Revenue was exceeded in the revenues for natural persons, i.e. the popular layers. There we really have a 14% over-performance. In other words, the target was achieved by 114%. On the contrary, where was a huge delay? Revenue from legal persons. The target was achieved by only 68%, i.e. 2/3. The rest of the 1/3 is gone. And the provocative of the whole case is that anonymous companies, limited companies only contributed 5.3% to all tax revenues. This was the 'tax' - on import charges, which they had. At the same time, around the target, the revenues from HNPH, the property tax, i.e. the "charatsi" paid by the people's family, were moved. The aim was almost the same as the revenue from indirect taxes, the most anti-grassroots taxes. Therefore, judging by the revenue side was deeply anti-popular, taxing for the people the implementation of the state budget for the year 2014. Is there another picture on the expenditure side? Suffice it to point out: where do the biggest reductions appear? The greatest reductions in the previous year, in 2013, were in grants to legal persons, i.e. institutions and health, welfare and social security bodies. Indicatively, the grant to the OGA was reduced by 9% compared with 2013. In IKA the grant was reduced by 11% to the OAU, the Auto-professional Organisation, it was reduced by 21% and the grant to the NAT was reduced by 48.6%. A similar percentage, i.e. 41%, was reduced and the grant to the EEA was reduced. In other words, only one of these elements confirms the barbaric, anti-popular policy pursued by the New Democracy and the PASOK when it was in the government. That was, of course, only one side, because, at the same time as this part of fiscal consolidation, it was also a question of promoting reforms, namely, further liberalisation of the labour market, in order to have cheaper potential, without defined labour and insurance rights - today we see the results of this policy followed by the then New Democracy - PASOK, when 60% of new jobs, which are part-time jobs, replace fixed and full-time jobs - the outsourcing of the insurance sector, which was continued when the SYRIZA - ANEL Government came in and constituted the social character of insurance, the liberalisation of the markets in the name of the closed-professional hit and the privatisation, where the current government is, of course, completing what was not possible. That is why, if something is confirmed, the usefulness of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was that it completed the work left unfinished by the previous PASOK and New Democracy governments, that is, it completes and takes all these measures, which have not been taken by those governments, and that is why its utility is expressed. And in this respect, by linking it to the present one, the 2014 balance sheet, which we are discussing, seems clearly to be the same policy. We have seen it in the preliminary draft state budget, we will see it in the next few days in the state budget that will come for 2017, which is characterised by tax policy, tax essiptations, new reductions in so-called social expenditures, even further from this limit of not responding to the essential needs. In other words, it is confirmed that these sacrifices which have been made over the years by the wide folk layers are sacrifices without the expiry date. The escalation of the new anti-grassroots attack will mark the successful completion of the second assessment, since today the further liberalisation of the labour market is taking place, the question arises that the government must see the sustainability of the insurance system and that the issues relating to the acceleration of privatisation are being raised, with the promotion of the management board of the new surplus fund. In this respect, therefore, even if the new assessment is completed, even if the objective set by the Government, in order to reduce the service of state debt, is to reduce all this is necessary, a new memorandum to the detriment of the people, a new escalation of the anti-grass attack, to the detriment of the working class and the wide folk strata. And it's no coincidence that Olad and Obama meet in the proclamations when they talk about austerity policy. Once you look at their speeches, all of them say nowhere that wages and wages will increase, that the sectoral employment contracts will be restored, that the enormous losses of the people will be restored. When they are all talking - from Obama, Holland to Tsipras and Renci - about austerity, they are talking about the possibility that the state should be able to borrow for the benefit of the capital, for new hot money, which must be given, in order to support the needs of capital. So, when they talk about austerity, they talk about the new privileges, which the great monopolistic capitalist groups should have. From this point of view, even the recovery of coming to the Greek economy will be a recovery based on the blood sacrifices of the Greek people and of course its preservation will require new sacrifices for the people. That is why the JRC stresses that there is no way out for the benefit of the working class and the rest of the people's strata in the context of the capitalist system, that is, under conditions of sovereignty of the monopolistic groups and participation of Greece in the European Union. From this point of view, if something is needed today, it is that they should not be caught in the illusions sowing by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government or the new fruitful hopes of the political opposition party, the New Democracy, but it has already had to be made - they must have signalled and signalled their struggle, organizing, under better positions, more structured and more decisive, where they will aim at the real guilty of the problems, namely the capitalist system and the interests of the bourgeoisie and big capital, so that they can, on the one hand, restore the huge losses, but, above all, pave the way for more overall breaches and overthrows, which are necessary today, so as to meet the current modern expanded people's needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The special speaker from the river Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, November 2016, two years after the financial events of the State of 2014, we are calling for the vote or vote against, whether or not we approve the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet. First of all, I would like to say, Mr President, that as a parliamentary procedure what is being done today has a paradox. I don't know, not a public limited company, but a retailer that talks about, approves, controls, analyses and accepts its expenditure, its revenues with two years' delay. So, at first I would say this is a shallow process. For I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: if we decide to vote against for some reason, what will happen? Will something change from the country's economic sizes in 2015 and 2016? Let's not be fooled. The only good thing that I find in this process, beyond the obligation, which is not positive, but you do not want to follow it, is that we have a common database of economic data and data on which we can build discussions. However, it is also an opportunity to see with a two-year time span, if 2014, as we talk about the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet, it has been better for the citizen since 2016. So today, ladies and gentlemen, it's snowed. Florina and Kozani dropped the first snow in Florina. What a nice picture for the tourist, also nice for the local! Come on, though, where the local needs to think about now and its heating. I would remind you that the heating season, that is, the period during which the Greek state provides help to those who are energyly poor and provide the heating allowance, has already begun. The heating season, not the heating allowance. So let's see, Mr. Minister, and then come to the theme of the 'Samara measures' of 2014 - if 2016 finds us better than 2014. The heating allowance in 2014 was allocated to an amount of 210 million euros. Each litre of fuel was then subsidized at 35 minutes and there was the 20% advance for all those who did not have their papers ready, but made the application and until their papers were prepared, collect the rest of the documentation, they also received 20% of the subsidy as the first step to catch up to the cold of winter. Let's see in 2015, Mr. Juliarakis, what has your government achieved with the heating allowance? You gave half the money, 105 million euros. You reduced the subsidy per litre in 25 minutes and removed, abolished, depleted the advance. So are we in a better position now than in 2014? And what about the new year? You haven't told us. You have not made any decisions - or you are not telling us - how much more you will cut the heating allowance or if you increase it, as we urge you and we challenge you to do so. The issue of energy poverty is not at random because it is not only snowed in Florina and Kozani, and the government has not yet decided what to do with the heating allowance or has not announced it to us, but there is a very big debate right now in Europe and particularly in Spain. In Spain, therefore, yesterday an eighty - one - year - old man was burned down, because the Spanish - had been cut down there - so to speak - the electricity, because he had no money to pay for it and used a candle at night. You cannot imagine how many similarities I see in Spanish public opinion and in Greek, in relation to the issue of energy poverty. That is where I am watching how the political forces are reacting too. What else did we have in 2014? Or maybe I'll tell you what we didn't have. We didn't have house arrests, first home. From where we were afraid of bankers, we arrived in 2016 and we have first home seizures, not from the bankers, but from the Greek state, from the tax office. It was part of this, too, I imagine, of the parallel programme that my dearest colleague of the majority spoke about! What else did we have or did we not have in 2014 in relation to 2016? In 2014, even cowardly, we were on the market. In 2014 we were in the memorialexit, we came out of the memorials. In 2016 we move very clearly and proudly towards the fourth memorandum, unfortunately. Why? Because this government can't make reforms, doesn't want to hurt client armies, party, trade unions. And instead of making the reforms that society as a whole wants and that is why it voted against the previous governments, you put more deeply on the well of crisis and desperation of Greek citizens. What else did he have in 2014 and in 2016? Pension cuts. In 2014, you accused the government at that time - and you did well - of the twelve pension cuts. So you come in 2015-2016 and move on to the thirteenth reduction in pension. I have told you on other occasions, it is not an argument to say: "But others have reduced pensions twelve times. We only have one." The thirteenth pension reduction by you, namely the SYRIZA - ANEL, proves that your previous twelve pension cuts have not reached you. You wanted a thirteenth. You have therefore incorporated and adopted the other pension reductions and proceeded with a step above or, if you wish, below. Since there has been a small debate, the Minister sends letters - I have even learned that he has sent a second letter at the time I was here - to complain, to ask me rather to disprove the title of a document which reproduced what was published at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs the last time we discussed. He said the title, despite the fact that it did not come from the text, that: "Syras: By suggestion of Juliaraki the Samara measures were adopted in 2014". So we take it out of the papers and come and tell you right now, from the Step of the House, as I told you last time at the sitting, but you didn't hear it. "With a recommendation from Juliaraki, the vote that the ruling party will give as the approval of the statement and balance sheet 2014 is equivalent to a vote of confidence in the 2014 government economic policy of Samaras." So I tell you, from here, from the Step of the House, introductory terms. So stop sending us shallow and high-minded letters, ask us to do what is a global originality: to ask a minister of another party to disprove a post that does not concern him, which relates first of all to him. So I'm telling you, this way. You don't have to disprove anything, neither do we. I'm telling you, this way. By proposing, approving, voting on the balance sheet - 2014, you are actually adopting the economic policy of that year. That is what your representative said. He said: 'We are in a contradictory situation, where we have to adopt certain things, despite the fact that we are not in agreement'. Isn't that right, Mr. Comrade? Well? Which one do you disagree with? What about me and your representative? Well, that's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u99	Deviations we give.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the ratification of this draft law. I would therefore say in your reply, Minister, to tell us what you will do with the heating allowance, to tell us what you will do with the fourth memorandum, to tell us what you will do about the pensions that are being dismantled, to tell us what you will do with the increase in taxation, which hits in the heart of entrepreneurship and leave the rest of the discrepancies about where they are taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. I should like to inform the House that three speakers have been included, so I think the procedure will be shorter than we have calculated. The Minister will take the floor at the end of the meeting. The special speaker of the Centroon Union, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to a debate not very substantial today, as the previous speaker said, as we see no change. You of the SYRIZA are voting for something that you do not believe and do not agree with, so a few things will change. All we can gain from this whole process is not making the same mistakes that happened at the time. In other words, it can possibly help us in the future. So, by studying the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet, I did not see any developmental character at all. There was no growth marker in there. Taxes, taxes, taxes again, as your partner says. That's what I get. Further downsizing the Greek economy, delaying the recovery of the country, unfortunately. And some of the characteristics, some of the indicators that demonstrate this to us are a 1.5% reduction in the revenues of excise duties on cigarettes and alcohol. In other words, the taxes we thought would bring us revenues were bad and did not bring us the desired result, not least the opposite. 7.9% of the revenues from charges and vehicle contributions were reduced, since many people withdrew their cars from the traffic, because they had not even been able to pay and maintain them. VAT revenue also increased by 5.2%. That's not encouraging. It shows the tax policy pursued and the overtaxation of citizens. We can't see this as a profit in the whole case. Also, 49% of the established revenues from incremental, fines and penalty payments were increased. This figure, this figure is absolutely nothing, because only 10% of these confirmed fines were eventually collected. This shows us that the world no longer has to pay. The central government's pay and benefit indicators were also reduced. That, if it were to be done properly and was targeted in the right direction, we would say that it is positive. However, all it has achieved is to reduce the purchasing capacity of these workers. And we still see negative figures within the balance sheet, as expenditure on Greek government pensions increased. Most people went to an early retirement and how to stay at work, when there is no stable employment legislation, and we see that the age limit has been raised to sixty-seven. Here I want to make a reference to how the money is to be found, to pay these pensions. When unemployment is at the moment at 24%, the highest in Europe, how will these funds be supported, for me,? What the government is doing right now is to follow the previous policy, give them a kick and see how much longer they will stand. I fear that, unfortunately, we are moving to the labour death of the Greek citizen. Let me turn back to the subject of today's debate. We saw that government revenues in 2013 increased by public enterprises, namely PPC and HSYP. SYRIZA at that time was against privatisation and now it is in favour - I do not think there is any objection to that - although we believe there could be an even greater profit if the reforms were in the right direction. The budget deficit is constantly rising. The figures said that the 2014 deficit forecasts would amount to about two billion. Finally, this closed to about four billion eight hundred and forty - three million, more than double. As long as we have issues of less than regular and public investment budget revenues and revenues, the less the deficit will increase. In 2013 the net revenue received from the state budget was reduced by 2.7%, which is even more worrying, considering that, for example, in 2014 compared to 2013, the property tax increased. Honestly, I'm looking for a sign that shows us the light or hope, but I can't find it. I won't dwell much on the fact that the fifth evaluation didn't close in 2014, because you as a opposition said that with a law in one night you'll be boring the bullies and the markets will dance, that you will erase the debts, that you will erase the memorials. Unfortunately, it reminded me of today's Artemis the whole behavior at that time. I will not say much about your Government since January 2015, where for the first time in a state of Europe the banks are closing down, the capital controls are coming and we are a step before the grexit, which you are now abstaining and doing well, that you have changed your mind. But tell us, if you can, when the banks will normally be back in business, so that they can lend to the Greek people, to the Greek households. I am afraid that with the new bill you bring, and in particular Article 49 of the bill incorporating Directive 2014/17/EU into Greek law, you are telling us that this limited regime will work for at least three to four years. I would like an answer to that. Let me go back to the report on the Court of Auditors. In particular, particularly worrying and negative signal to Greece's expected growth is the fact that the ratio of direct and indirect taxes on total tax revenues amounts to 45,87% and 54,12% respectively. This simply means that, for each euro direct tax payment, the Greek citizen has to pay and 1,18 euros still in indirect tax. This cannot bring growth into any way. A similar matter of gravity is the inability to collect amounts relating to book and data breaches for past years. The inefficiency of the recovery of the fines, which constitute a large proportion of the debts recovered, is found to be ineffective. As if this is not enough, we see that the trend is up from year to year and specifically for 2016. Neither too little nor too much is it a one-way, the need to redefine the type of taxes and the way in which taxes are levied, as the Court of Auditors points out, because otherwise our economy is going to the rain. If all the above numbers were just put in a board and sat down, like in a school, with a simple arithmetic to look at them, we'd see that the numbers aren't coming out, that the money won't get there. What do we do? We go and beg for borrowers and the more indebted we become to the lenders, the more expensive lending is. I am not the only one saying that the Court of Auditors, which has found that there has been an increase in the cost of borrowing. Compared, it says the country is on the edge of the cliff, economically powerless with expensive lending and on the brink of economic collapse. The unorthodox functioning of the State and the pathogens go to the point that they cannot properly fulfil the accounting obligations. And what do I mean by that? The Court of Auditors reports that there is no indication of fixed assets in the assets because a register of fixed assets has not been established. I note that the freezing register is a budgetary obligation in order to determine the correct financial position of the central administration at the time of the financial crisis. The non-compliance entails a substantial breach of the basic accounting principles, according to d.15/2011. And I ask you now: if something like this were done by a private company, it was violating tax law, what would happen? And what's the Treasury doing about that violation? There is no action at all in this respect. And as far as we go on studying the Court of Auditors' report, we can see more vulnerability. We all see that there is a lack of prediction and containment of uncertainties, i.e. that the level of precariousness of the central administration is not determined and that this does not mean that such accounting records are not carried out. This means neither much nor much, inability to assess and determine the requirements, which will eventually be collected. All this is some of the pathogens that we can see in the past. Many of them, however, are still on today. The current government does not go into a question of co-operation and consensus. It comes exclusively with its own decisions, without substantial debate and dialogue, to pursue its policy, which, as you live in your everyday life, only does not bring growth. I hope you do consciously and get substantial reforms so that we get out of this stagnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u103	We thank Mr Megloumustakas, who completed the cycle of rapporteurs and special speakers. We continue with the circle of speakers, with the first of Mr Stakouras from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are participating in an important accountability process, in which it is assessed, through the discussion and ratification of the state's accounts and balance sheet, the credibility of the state's training and the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. It is a year in which the country has achieved most of the budget objectives. In particular, firstly, the country presented after six consecutive years of recession a positive rate of economic growth. Unfortunately, the Greek economy was then exclusively responsible for the current government again in the recession. Secondly, the country has achieved a primary surplus for the second consecutive year. This was shaped at a higher level than next year, since 2015, despite the austerity measures by the current government. It is, however, true that the result has been much lower than the target set for 2014. And this, despite the fact that achieving this goal was absolutely feasible by November 2014. This was supported by the European Commission in November in its autumn forecasts. I submit the document in the Minutes. This was also presented in the Monetary Policy Report of the Bank of Greece in November 2014 and I submit it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So why is it that the wide divergence of the primary surplus from the target from December 2014 onwards, especially when the government then kept expenditure below the target of EUR 1 billion? It is solely due to the revenue side, where the discrepancy exceeded EUR 2 billion in December 2014, January 2015 and February 2015, which are budgetaryly integrated in the previous year and this is due to the undermining of the receipts, due to political instability, the uncertainty about the negotiations with the lenders, the urge not to pay taxes and the promises of seismicism by the then strong opposition. On 8 February 2015, the current Prime Minister called on the public to respond to the national effort and to pay the last instalments corresponding to the 2014 tax, while before he told them not to pay. From a fiancée of disobedience, as chief of the opposition officer, he suddenly became the head of patriotism, as Prime Minister. Thirdly, the first and only reductions in taxation have taken place in 2014. There was a 10 percentage points reduction in VAT on the focus, a 30% reduction in excise duty on heating oil, a 30% reduction in the exceptional solidarity levy, a 5% reduction in insurance contributions and a social dividend of around EUR 450 million, about four times that paid by the current government next year to deal with the humanitarian crisis. Fourthly, government debts have declined significantly. They fell that two-year, 2013-2014, six billion euros on the market. Unfortunately, since the beginning of 2015, with the sole responsibility of the current government, the outstanding debts have been discharged again by 60% and over six billion euros have been exceeded. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Fifthly, tax revenues for the first time were stabilised. If we look at the Memorandum of Understanding for All Years, we will see a steady reduction in tax revenue from 2010 until today, with the exception of one year, in 2014, which was the only year to see a stabilisation of tax revenue. Why? Because the economy has stabilised, it has returned to a positive rate of economic growth and the first targeted reductions in tax rates have been made. Six and last, the country regained access to international money and capital markets, which was implemented twice in 2014 by issuing a five-year and three-year bond, for the first time after the country was excluded at the beginning of 2010. And that was achieved with interest rates that the country has seen since 2008. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion - I conclude in a minute, Mr President - the balance sheet and balance sheet figures reflect the conditions for stabilisation of the economy in 2014 for the first time since the crisis began. And that is not what the now Dedicated Opposition, which was in the government at the time, does not say. Everyone says it in and out of the country. I would like to submit to the Minutes, after I read the answer to a question by Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Katinen, in March 2015, who said: 'To the end of this winter' - that is, 2014 - 'the things were going better. The country had a primary surplus of 1.5%, everyone was talking about the need for a preventive credit line. Greece would come out of the program, just with an insurance policy. Now, unfortunately, things have changed. It is very sad, because the world suffered, suffered enormous sacrifices and things went better. Unfortunately, today's worse." This has been the interview since March 2015 and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore clear that the uncertainty, the bad negotiation and the inefficiency of the SYRIZA and ANEL government have had huge costs for its country and economy, a cost that is translated into at least two lost years for the country. Even if we get there, as far as the main macroeconomic indicators are concerned, some time in 2017 where we were in 2014, citizens will be poorer, households will have less available income after 9 billion euros have been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u105	Well, Mr. Stakoura, time's up in the meantime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u106	...all enterprises will have put a lock or migrated, the internal payment stop will continue to exist, the competitiveness of the economy will be shrinking. It is clear that we need another economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Tsoulus has the floor now. Here you go, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the apparently minimal interest that the accounting debate meets every year is a further demonstration of the momentum we have in managing the future rather than undermining the past. It is much easier to talk about forecasts, things that have not yet happened, because we handle them easier and place our views, our predictions more easily. When we are dealing with the past, when we are dealing with facts, that is to say, we find it difficult because the reality is not our imagination, our demagogy and perhaps our nonsense. That is why the accounts, while it should be the most important debate in this House, because we are talking about acts and not forecasts, have this fate of the desert country, a parliament which is not of interest. However, the balance sheet is of great interest. And it has enormous interest, because it shows once again that what has guided the country in recent years is the function of reality and time. We have not succeeded in tampering with reality as much as we should have done, because every time the reality escapes from our control, because we do not admit our mistakes, we do not accept our responsibilities, and we are exacerbating the reality that goes beyond us. That's a classic case. It's the current government. He refused the reality, called this denial 'fraud', the reality stumbled on the government, smuggled the country, and while we were ready in the autumn - yes, we were ready - in 2014, after heavy sacrifices and heavy turbulence of the Greek people, to go out at the threshold of exit from the crisis, the country retreated, due to a reaction to reality, and we have a new memorandum, an addition of debt and a new inappropriate austerity. These assumptions have nothing to do with my party position or my ideological position. It is about a complaint, which is constantly growing and has to do with the refusal of the so-called "political system" to reconcile with reality and attempt to guide it rather than the reverse. We have had the speech of the President of the United States today. We have big developments in the world. We insist on a small world. We know that developments in the United States, which will not be what some are afraid of - things will be much more smooth in such countries than in Greece - may create global liquidity reductions, may create a devaluation of the dollar, may create phenomena that damage Europe and Greece, and we are still ignoring them. But I must say, Minister, that in your speech in committee you mentioned such side effects and we must slowly begin to see reality with a more reconciled eye, rather than wanting to turn the crisis and the sufferings of the Greek people into a temporary benefit for our party. Greece at the government of Samaras had touched the threshold of exiting the crisis with the sacrifices of the Greek people, yes, with an increase of unemployment, yes, which had begun to deviate, but the difference with today is that not all of this became a turnaround. The result of these sacrifices was the exit from the crisis. We, that is, you, the country, the new government refused these sacrifices and wanted to add its own mistakes, its own delusion, its own patronages at a dance and a succession of failures, taking advantage of the anger, anger, indignation, the complaint of the Greek people for us. Today we are voting for the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet, and I hope from this step, by giving my positive vote, that the SYRIZA Government will become more aware of its relationship with reality and that it abandons all those ideals, the delusions, all those deceptives that have exacerbated the country, have brought huge 'teachers' impact on the country and the Greek people and have dramatically exacerbated the economic situation in particular of the lower economic strata. SYRIZA's vote in the 2014 report can be ironic or contradictory. It is, however, a small institutional landing in reality, which, if accompanied by greater landings, will benefit the country. I hope it will be done, because SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks have deteriorated the country's economic situation so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u109	The last speaker, Mr Mardas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no ladies, so I will address only to gentlemen - I will accept the position of a calm analysis at that time. Cold analysis means put down positions we disagree, raise the sleeves and try to see exactly what happens, without screams and whispers. The approach that I shall mention is not the first time that it is heard here, but now it will be heard on the basis of the 2014 balance sheet and balance sheet and bearing in mind that we have some above elements. I would remind you of some elements: First of all, after the European elections, the Government representative had said that 4% of the difference was not overturned. Second element is that SYRIZA had lost a hundred and fifty thousand votes compared to 2012. Thirdly, the European elections were not elections and therefore did not affect political developments. Fourthly, of course, it is the four-year or otherwise translated, that we will touch the maximum possible limits, which we can have so that elections can be held. 2014 is considered a success story. There were predictions that were interesting, but the forecasts were not results. There were some discrepancies. You think the divergences are due to us who, as you mentioned, did not let you walk. There were blackmail, there was prosecuting with regard to the elections. They were all interrupted in 2014 because the opposition provoked the elections. Firstly - we have said so before these benches - the government is ruling and the opposition is doing its job. If you do believe that 2014 was a success story, if you really thought you were stepping on your feet, then you had to take advantage of the time that the Constitution gives you and provoke the presidential elections after 12 February 2015. Because I cannot imagine how an economic policy that he thinks will scan in 2014, lose this opportunity and give it right and left, saying that someone else has provoked the elections. Of course, the reasonable question is: Now that the Qualified Opposition is asking for elections from us, we are going to make them? The government rules. But why did you do elections? Because things weren't the way they looked. Things were very different. Firstly, you cannot easily prove that there would be no memorandum. If there was indeed no memorandum, in December 2014 you would have closed the deal that you would have wanted and anticipated the e-mail Hardouvelis, with this small difference of one billion you often say, which is, of course, not the main element of the difference. You would close everything in time to step on your feet even more and according to your road thinking, you would be scanning at elections after February 2015, which would be March 2015. In this case, however, there is some evidence showing that things were not so and that you caused the elections, because you knew that February would not have any money. You didn't get the money you needed from the lenders last August. You would close the Flevaris agreement - if you were to close it - and take 7 billion to the end of February, if not March and within Flevaris - on the 24th of the month - a cash deficit of about half a billion would appear. We, when we entered the General Accounting Office of the State on February 2, February, day Monday, had 1,567,000. The total expenditure for the month is approximately 3.5 to 4.4 billion. Even if you handed us 2.2 billion on the 25th, that was not even half the state's spending. So you would enter an election period and you would not be able to cover the vital costs of this country in the middle of elections. You understand what this thing means. Therefore, these figures, which we received and did not form, and this here the February fund, interpreted the haste of the elections in December, where, of course, if you thought you were going to scan, you lost this dynamic that you thought you were going to develop. But it was impossible to develop it, because Flevaris was ruthless and would cause you a great deal of trouble in the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u112	Mr Tasula, I agree with what you said, starting your position. Normally, and in a country where rationalization prevails, the time of accounting and the adoption of balance sheet is important. It's the stuff that's been produced. They are not expected or expected. It's time you count what you did and what you didn't succeed, what you did and where you missed. It's a ritual for this time, it doesn't exist. We're living it at times like this. Last year, for the first time, and with the competence of Parliament, it was an indifferent procedure. However, we are slipping into situations incorrectly - and we know that - because there is a cause, ladies and gentlemen. Repeating the same mistake makes many people talk about DNA problems we have. I don't know if that's the way it is. I do not like these arguments, but, in any case, people listen to them with interest when they see that the same mistakes and the same mistakes are repeated. Here, ladies and gentlemen, basic common data are being created on the runners of a country-wide race, especially when it is in crisis. Here we agree on numbers, minimum numbers. The runners, in different colors, agree how long they'll run. They don't agree on what their formulated tactics will be. They agree, however, that this is the distance. I can understand the Minister who in committee said that 2014 was a bad year, but I cannot understand any colleague who says that the surplus was not 637 million or that growth was not 0.35%. And yet, in the public daily dialogue, but instead of others, you hear from the majority forces. Other than others! We do not vote, ladies and gentlemen, a law - an article has today's law - which, if not voted on, would produce negative results. We agree on the numbers. This is today's process. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u113	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u114	If that is true, however, no one is entitled to deny these figures on the agenda for the day-to-day political controversy. And I would ask the majority Members to know what they will vote together with the opposition. Because the opposition is voting. You will tell me, "It was her years." Yes, but it also votes for other draft laws that are not in its years, or which stand in the minds of a government, which, when it was opposition, was completely against what was good was going on. I would remind you of something we discussed last year on this occasion, but this year we are not saying it: last year, the Minister himself said, Mr Juliarakis, that 'We are making a fight which also has compensation for the support of the poorest'. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we were talking about our policies to support the weak in 2013. You did not have the first time in your administration. Say now for 2014, by comparison? We had the NSA in full growth. Where do you have it this year? You cut it for 2016. As of January 1, the measures are getting worse, to end the ESS in 2018. And in return for the 386,000 cases of people who lose it, you take measures for 55,000 of them. Is that something you'll be proud of? Is this something serious, important? Are you happy about that? Why did you come to power? Who are you serving? What is the social class, the social layer you love and serve? From 386,000 beneficiaries of the CSCE, the compensation, based not only on the law passed but also on the ministerial decision adopted, relates to 55,000. One to one we will tell them in the budget debate. And to say one more thing, Minister: why in 2014 was it a bad time, in circumstances that you know now that you are running for two years? First, you had a surplus of EUR 673.6 million. This is not disputed, ladies and gentlemen. It is a report of the Court of Auditors. You vote for it. From tomorrow morning in the public debate you cannot say any more when you have a surplus of this and when you have - to accept what the Minister has given - ultimately 0.35% growth rather than 0.7% we have calculated. In September of that year, Minister, throughout the market, especially in my own areas - and I say it because I am a professional lawyer, doctors, engineers, you felt that the economy was recovering. You were listening. He was coming. Leave the numbers. And that justified the prediction of foreigners, the European Central Bank in particular, for growth of 3% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016. It was coming. You felt that until December. And the growth was cut at a lesser rate, because they were telling us what they now say about you. We were specifically told: “What can we say with you? You leave." Minister, that was what was said in 2012. We were then told in the councils that "You in polls have 8% and 10% and 12% etc., we do not count on you, you are not valid interlocutors after you have elections". In 2012. We were forced and made public statements. I have done - and I have paid for it personally - by saying that the country will have a government - with New Democracy, then we said - to hear this out of borders. We were serving our country. They told it in 2015 to us. Since November, the world has become reluctant again. Now they say about you whispers: “The debt? With the next.' And they say it because they see you're leaving. That's what you guys made this game. We won't do this to you. You, with your stand for the election of the President of the Republic at the end of 2014 to 2015, served to oppose a country's progress. And you accompanied this with the loss of 11 billion in the CFSF, with the loss of 6 billion in the retained bonds - and if you are doubtful, Mr Houdis will tell you - and you accompanied it and with the arrest of an effort that, in its conclusion, would also have the regulation of public debt, which we had twice in 2012, i.e. November, but also February 2012. You have a third memorandum without even promises for 2018 parametric changes for the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Loverdo, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u116	I'm hanging up. I have been informed that I have eight minutes, Mr President. I had come to the Bureau and asked, I was told that I had eight minutes, so I budgeted my time too. This is about the balance sheet, with a country that you have received with conditions that are more positive, a little positive, but positive. While we remember very well, colleagues - and I personally - 2009-2010 with 15.7% of the deficits, which were not numbers. For me, the first day of my presence at the Ministry of Labour was accompanied by the request of the Commander of the IKA to find 2,5 billion loan to pay the pensions in December and the Christmas present. You took the country upwards and brought it back to 2012, in 2011, so that Greek citizens could go back to the same difficulties simply with you. You don't have the opposition we had. I will give you an example of today's and yesterday's day: If you were opposition, and we had a visit by the American President, you would throw eggs and molotovs from your distant friends and your cousins. Here you have an opposition that tells you that this visit, at communication level, helps, because it makes the information dimension of Greece's, Greek-Turkish, Cypriot, migrant, refugee problem global. These are, ladies and gentlemen, and I have closed down - on the apology issues. On matters relating to state property, Mr Koutsoukos has made an observation to you - and I would like to close it, ladies and gentlemen - on the question of the amount of state property. The colleague, who recommended the views of the Democratic Association, said that, although there was an excuse in the years that passed, where the accounting system with which the State operates, he does not allow us to know what the property of the Greek state is. Now that all this has been subordinated, it would be good in the next few months, next year, to learn, by using its accounting technique, what exactly is the property that goes through this superstition. I think that you should promise, and I am waiting for your speech here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too. Mr Danellis, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking for him before he leaves. And let them demonstrate - beyond the JRC, which we respect in spite of the absolute disagreement with him and the dangerous 'falconies', which no comparison with the JRC, of course, and the reasons for the demonstration, may state - and let us protest very few, graphics, such as teachers' trade unionists, against American imperialism and the challenge of Obama's visit on the occasion of the Polytechnic Celebration. We are sure that they do not express the teachers, because otherwise we will have an additional, very good reason to worry about our children. And because next to the captivity, the ideologies and the manicure on the left, there have always been some who have supported others. I remembered something that I wrote on 23-11-1999 in "Eleftheriotia" on the occasion of Clinton's visit to Athens. I am conveying a phrase to you: "The meeting - fatally always - of the traditional anti-west propaganda of a part of the Left with national-patriotic populism create a new suffocating climate for the right reason and the calm approach of the needs of our time. The political forces of the modern left appear to be unrealistic to overcome the triumphs that are now only encountered in third world countries." These in 1999. Today, Barack Obama, the most popular post-John Kennedy President of the United States, chose to close his eight-year-old presidency, addressing his global audience, from the cradle of democracy, a speech that will remain in history as a milestone, with its own many and powerful symbolisms. Recognition of Athens, Greece for Western civilization, for the value of democracy and its principles. This hopeless gift to these very bad hours for us seems, unfortunately, that we are not all able to evaluate and exploit. Too bad, because stereotypes and ideologies once again replace the right word with stupidity! Coming to the subject of today's meeting, the time-frame that separates us from the financial year 2014, allows us to see things more calmly and hence more effectively, something that we should do. It has already been mentioned by colleagues. I think that accounts and balance sheets are an opportunity to gain wisdom and self-awareness. We had to appreciate what went wrong, what we did not budget properly, and what we need to differentiate. Unfortunately, we never did that over time. Perhaps the difficulties of our times require us to approach it in a different and more substantial way. In any case, however, we must collaborate together as a political system. And we need to grow up, get away from the upbringing and premature success story, wherever they come from. The numbers shall be negligible and may be used on a case-by-case basis by the parties concerned, as appropriate at any time. So let's see some of the numbers. Comparing the 2014 report to that of 2013, we have some initial conclusions that seem to be impressive. In particular, compared to 2013 there is an increase in the established revenues by 9.2%, from 52.3 billion in 2013 to 57.1 billion in 2014. There is still a decrease in operating costs by 12.3%, from 55.7 billion in 2013 to 48.8 billion in 2014. The primary deficit appears to be reduced from 20.1 billion in 2013 to 5.1 billion in 2014. But when we go on page 3, that is, on the cash-flow situation, which simply relates to the collection of revenue and payments, we unfortunately see a reversed picture. What do we see? That tax collection remains substantially stable with a marginal increase of 0.6%. To say it simply, the taxes secured were increased, but they were not paid, thus increasing the dues of individuals to the State. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me an extra minute, please, Mr President, from my time. We also note that the collection of revenues from non-tax revenues is reduced by 35%, while, as far as expenditure is concerned, there is a reduction in the State's payments for subsidies and subsidies by 22.2%. In other words, the public has frozen its payments to private individuals. It is also impressive that, despite the pension cuts, the pension costs of civil servants, officials and civil servants, compared to 2013, increase by 4.1%, while the amount for payments of legal persons governed by public law increased by 2%. And all this proves that narrow and short-reading macroeconomic data can sometimes conceal what is happening in the real economy. Nevertheless, in 2014 with one, even assisted, we managed to make our first cowardly exit steps towards the markets and to present, after six years of recession, one, even modest, surplus budget. The exact reasons why this course has been reversed are the work of future history. It is important, however, - and it is what we can surely say - that things have not been easy at all and still remain that way for the Greek economy for a year and a half. Unbelievable relics, ideologies, governmental and parliamentary cleansings that followed the impact on reality have returned to us in the years of the crisis - unfortunately! - and, of course, with huge economic costs for the citizens and for the country. What you did not understand as much as the previous ones is that the state and the economy follow on, that the alternating governments must respect and not sacrifice it on the altar of micro-political purposes. As a consequence, the course of exit from the memoranda would have been completed in the period 2014-2015. Unfortunately, unconscious populism and delusional ones, which have been cultivated, have overthrown this course. The credit suffocation of banks, businesses, taxpayers due to capital controls, which you imposed, mathematically led to the third memorandum of the country and the citizens in the belief that nothing can change. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must evaluate the past and at least agree on the basics. That is the only way to reinvent faith and self-confidence on citizens. And this is a matter of survival and not a matter of luxury for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed disappointing to discuss in plenary the accounts, budgets, balance sheets and the House to be empty. Unlike all parties, as you can see, the People's Association - Golden Dawn from its parliamentary group has representatively 1/3 of its power in the Chamber. This means too much to us and demonstrates how serious we take into account all the draft laws that are coming for discussion. We heard from the rapporteur of the New Democracy and from the speakers of the New Democracy that 2014 was a Utopian year, that everything was very beautiful, that we would go out on the markets in the autumn. In other words, we are told that in the autumn - which arrives until November - in other words within one month - we had an election in January and SYRIZA took over, not that I support SYRIZA, to God! - SYRIZA took over and did everything a lot worse than it was before. The point is that we don't believe in indicators as Golden Dawn. The only indicators we believe are those that show how much unemployment there is in our country. And according to the Institute of Labour's indicators, these indicators touch 30.8%, without taking account of those who are semi-employed, who certainly, if we calculate them, are much higher than that rate of unemployment. We heard about the Obama visit. We have heard of a visit by a president who, within forty-five days, delivers the dogma to the newly elected President of the United States, and I could only describe as naive the thought of being able to believe within this Ethiopia that something will change with the Obama visit. We have heard from the channels these days that it will help to alleviate the Greek debt, which the new President of America was clear in this position that Greece's debt is a purely internal matter of the European Union and indeed between Greece and Germany. We don't expect anything at all. On the contrary, we have asked some questions through the spokesman regarding Mr Obama's visit, if he has come as a tourist in Greece, if he has come as a bearer of the fourth memorandum. And since we are talking about a fourth memorandum, which is very often heard in recent days, let us not forget that the reason why our country entered these memoranda was the policy pursued by the United States. You know and you know very well, regardless of whether you say so publicly within the plenary Chamber, that all of this started in 2007-2008 from the United States, from the construction sector. They managed to export their own crisis, loaded it in Europe, and European loan sharks and lenders in a very beautiful way managed to load it in some specific countries. Some of them slipped. They are trying to place it exclusively on the back of Greece, because they have been the only guide - and that is what they have believed for many years - that anything that is being applied in Greece will be very easy to implement in the rest of the countries as well. Mr Obama also came to us as a procurer of illegal immigrants. Why am I saying that? And this is the responsibility of the United States, because the flows of migrants against you - as you want to tell them - are no longer of interest to us - these flows are a consequence of their policies in the Middle East and Africa. Under no circumstances will Greece become not just a dumpster of human souls, but generally garbageteners of the whole world. This is the policy they pursue against Greece. In fact, tomorrow there will be neither a Commission nor a plenary because the restoration of democracy is being celebrated. But we did not hear that as yesterday the proclamation of the pseudo-crats just thirty-three years ago in our witness Cyprus. We should be ashamed that there is no mention in the Greek Parliament of such matters. As I have not heard anyone mention the two Albanian agents, who have been arrested with material that refers to the alperatorial moods of our neighbours. You see, we've settled everything so well with our neighbours, who are dealing with the Obama visit, an outgoing and a final president. There is also an illusion, to tell the truth now in this Chamber, that perhaps because the new president has some Greek partners, let us not forget that everyone who went through the presidency of the United States had Greek partners, we do not believe much, we simply think that revolutionaries were the ones who voted for the new president of America, because their vote was antisystemic. We should therefore give a very broad foundation to current political developments. We should mention things that are not heard. It has not been heard that in December of this year there is a very serious referendum in the neighbouring country, Italy, on which too many issues will depend, such as the well-known Brexit, such as Grexit which employs too many, perhaps there will also be the Italexit with the decision that will come out if this referendum is not the expected one. After all, the Italian President himself stated that if anything else comes out, he would resign. What's going on? The laws, as you know very well, in Italy are passed by the House of Representatives and by the Senate to have effect. They want to reduce the power of the Senate so that it becomes exactly what is happening within the Greek Parliament, that all the laws pass much easier. As a result of all this, known loan sharks will be much easier to enforce policies than any policies they want to circumvent the laws of the national states and impose their own. In conclusion, we have to tell them that Greek nationalists are the only political movement that has been born through the people, has never been promoted by any system and is the only party that has been fought with rabies from everyone, so why is it? It is simply because it is the only party that cannot control it. And whoever's not controlled is automatically dangerous. Because it does not obey interests, but conflicts with those for the benefit of the citizens of the country. Simplifiedly, because the only guide of the Golden Dawn is the voice of the national duty and tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, even the seemingly more indifferent debate, which is usually these debates on accounts and balance sheets, gives the opportunity and the opportunity to assess things from a time-consuming point of view and, of course, to express thoughts and opinions on current timeliness and reality. I want to start with that. There is no doubt that we are living in uncertain times. We live in troubled times for the whole planet. They stress this, even in the Greek Parliament, the voices of fascism, which are heard in a straight line with the far-right appearance throughout Europe and the attitude of nationalist folding. We must have all the progressive forces at European level and in our country our eyes open. We cannot, in fact, continue on a one-sided austerity path when, according to the current figures published for both our country and for Europe, four out of ten children in Greece are at risk or live in poverty and social exclusion and one in four children in the eight countries of Europe. If Europe does not change its architecture, if it does not change its direction, and like the President of the United States who visited our country, he has added in his own way, if there is no change from the austerity course to another road, we will, in fact, live dark days. We are seeing this and we must - and I am being given the opportunity from this Step forward to say it - to join in a struggle for democracy, in a fight against austerity, which is, as everything shows, difficult and possibly uncertain. We have to have all this in our minds. Because it's not days, years, and weeks that's what's been going on. At this point in time, ladies and gentlemen, many things are condensing - and I mean the time until the end of the year, until the beginning of 2017, in an effort that we must say that the Greek Government and the Greek people are doing and are stubbornly battling a battle. They don't fit in here any conveniences or approaches that don't have a thought and a depth. Because many times historians and historians are much longer than normal times and magic and automatic solutions that some imagine exist. Of course, speaking of the accounts at all times, one can think of the relationship between the economy and politics, politics and the economy. To make it clear - some colleagues in the opposition have already made it clear - what we are voting on is obviously the figures. It could not have been otherwise in an institutional process in which we operate. That does not mean - and the Minister clearly told the committees too - that we do not think that 2014 was a failed year, that we did not have and we do not have very clear disagreements with the policy pursued at the very time. And it is well known - and we have said so many times too often since the Step of the House - that it is also obvious to us that there was a very specific political project against a left-wing force, against a progressive force that he wanted and wants to change things at European level, which gave a tough battle since 2015 and was led to a painful compromise in July and then August 2015. We know that very well and we are committed to a struggle, which is very difficult and which obviously is different. Let me not remind you once again that the new agreement, which we have achieved after a lot of hard work, has a much weaker budgetary adjustment. Only the less 20 billion resulting from the reduction of primary surplus targets show it, but it is still hard for people's everyday lives and it is still causing us difficulties, problems, etc. I would like to make some corrections, because sometimes we say some things and from this Step that are not entirely consistent with reality. A number of colleagues have reminded me that they are ready, i.e. judging exclusively. What was 2014? Better year. What is 2016? Worse year. Okay. A number of colleagues' speeches identify the political direction they want to take if that is how they judge it. I hope that's not it. Nor is it, of course, the number that has been heard of the beneficiaries of the compensatory measures for the EPC, which has been said by a previous parliamentary representative. Today this table was published and are eighty - nine thousand seven hundred sixty - four beneficiaries. We don't make the mistake of repeating from this Step to our public word success stories. We're not making this mistake. We are well aware of the difficulty. This does not mean, under any circumstances, that obviously what emerged for the pensioners who took the ESS, which was a privileged allowance I recall, is not a difficult thing for the daily lives of these people. We tried last year and we will try to find those ways to compensate for these difficult circumstances in the new year. I would like to close with this: The Minister and his speech to the committees have said those elements that substantiate our opinion in relation to 2014 and our crisis that it was a failed period. He also mentioned the issues of the growth rate of the Greek economy and the interest rates on the lending of the Greek state that were then escalating, unlike other countries, as the Portuguese Minister, for example, said at the time, and other such things. As well as the issue that we were faced with on the cash reserves, which Mr Mardas experienced as a minister himself at that time. And that was the political and economic plan of our trapping, especially in the first semester, when the waiver had left. We had these cash reserves, and everyone thought that the left hand they were preparing would be two, two and a half months at most and we'd be done. In any case, we are here today - and I would like to close with this, Mr President - with a lot of difficulties, with many uncertainties, but I think also with some specific perspectives on the road map, which we have drawn up at this time and I think with hard efforts and compromises, no doubt, we are in front of a second assessment procedure and we are doing a very great deal of work on it. I think that we are facing and developing at European level, even if the German policy is at least as expressed by the German Foreign Minister, it seems that we have another wall in front of us at the moment. I think and hope, I will also say that at European level, it can finally be because the sizes, not of our country, but of Italy, and other figures, which then come to risk Europe and the European leaders, are very large, a regression that will not have a limit, which will return us to the dark days. So we're going to fight this battle. We have, as a weapon, this result which, with severe sacrifices, I repeat, we have achieved at the level of the budget at more than 1.5 billion over the last few days. And we can, in these circumstances, fight and achieve through compromises and difficulties a better prospect for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. Mr. Papachristopoulos, have you overcome your ambiguity and will you speak? Please, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u124	After all, I believe that the economy is at the heart of the moment, it is at the edge of the spear in Greek society. The specific issue mentioned in 2014 may be somewhat obsolete, slightly obsolete, but the economy continues to be at the edge of the spear and timely. I want to look forward to it. I think that everyone's mind is in what happened these days with the visit of the President of the United States, Barack Obama. We lived just before the President of the United States came a situation known to us. Some have tried to degrade this visit, to find it almost negligible. These days, however, we really saw that the same people gathered, were counted back, even newspapers and televisions were forced to some extent, the ones that were in danger and destruction every day, and somehow gathered together. Barack Obama for those who want to freshen up their memory is the one who fought for Obama Care, uninsured American citizens too can have access to health. He didn't make it to the end. He fought it, and to a large extent he did it. It succeeded, for those who also do not remember, an agreement on climate important for the President of the United States to fight it. He also achieved an unprecedented success, a country that was a turbulence twenty, thirty years ago - remember what happened then with the Embassy in Iran - to change its mind and to alleviate. He is the first President to dare and go to Cuba and the embargo has stopped. And I could mention a lot more. He is the same man who, in the long history of "LEHMAN BROTHERS" 15 trillion. He didn't wait and put them on the market. Remember what happened with GENERAL MOTORS, etc. He is a truly decisive President, who has worked positively, not only for his country but also for the global community. We have very bad associations from American governments and we don't forget them. We don't forget how Kisinger worked in the dictatorship, we don't forget how irresponsibly son Bush played with wars and really sprinkled storms. Even Bill Clinton, the philanthropist, is the one who was almost part of Yugoslavia's tolerance. In any of these stories, Barack Obama didn't get involved. I'm saying this because being a general anti-American is easy. But distinguishing people is hard. I'm not stealing the x' president of the United States, but this one. The authority of this man is undeniable. And here we must say a great 'thank you' and a 'bravo' to the President of the Republic. I didn't hear it from anyone. He's a president really at the height of his office, who did everything. Because the Prime Minister is obliged to do so because that is his job. The President has, I believe, worked very positively and we owe him a 'thank you' and a 'bravo'. The authority of this man is undeniable. We are now in the second assessment, which we very much need. We fight with beasts. Finally, we want to give a signal to the markets. No, we didn't ask for a debt cut. Some people owe it to us, and they think we're ethers. The short-term measures are almost outdated and we want the message - Mr Juliarakis knows better - for the medium and long term that the markets will now take it, especially for the lower surpluses after 2018. I will also welcome the view of Officerial Opposition and other parties, who see that only with very low surpluses, not 3.5%, in 2019 or 2020, and go by saying we will survive. It is necessary to enter quantitative relaxation so that we can make structural moves. I'm the last person to say that the Greek citizen is having a good time. No, it's not. [[At this point, a warning bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] Do I have two minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u125	You do. It was so important that Obama's visit, which she takes a lot longer, but you put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The Greek citizen is not having any fun. Some of the great forty years are struggling to load them on SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. Nobody believes them. They don't forget what happened. I have no intention of digging them now and scratching them. But I want to say that in our hand it is right now to stop being a sibling nation. I will admit that mistakes have been made from all sides. And we had an ignorance of danger and promised things we couldn't and we need to do our self-criticism. But, it is an acidic shape, people who literally - forgive me the expression - plundered the country for forty years, not having an attitude of self-criticism, say 'yes, we have also made mistakes'. Don't remind me now, it's not time for that. It is time - and I will be the ones with my little powers to fight it in this Chamber - for shocks. We agree on the low surpluses, and we agree that the debt must enter the table. I forget the voices that say'retire', 'elections now', etc. I believe they themselves have realised that sooner or later they will return this thing backwards. This government was voted on by Greek citizens, did not come with tanks. How do you ask him to quit? What for? Already at the moment we are talking, they are cowardly cowardly all the indicators, ELSTAT, the General Accounting Office of the State and, above all, all around the world, they are seeing growth next year. I'm not saying 2.7%, but 1.5%, 1%. This will allow us to make corrective moves, especially when we enter Draghi's quantitative relaxation. Indeed, taxation must fall, the big VAT must fall, the big contributions must fall. There must be corrective movements in almost all pensions. Will we be able to do it? Yeah. I didn't talk about big things, but small steps. And don't forget that in all the polls, even in these fakes, like those who didn't see Brexit, they never saw Trump and he went to say, even to them 30% of Greek citizens, something is waiting for us. I think it's time for everyone to join us. And I would like to end by reminding you of the great talk Barack Obama said: 'I have to make a smooth transition to the next presidency. Whoever it is, it was elected, it was voted." And we saw what a stop it took. And we are thinking of the receipt - the 2015 tradition, where the old Prime Minister did not even go to Maximos. I want us to forget all this. They don't do us any good. It's not things that will work for the country. And under no circumstances should Lepenn become President of France, in no case should the 'camba' of Austria and the Netherlands be confirmed. It's bells around where the far right brings her to a first shot. France and Italy also have a sacrosanct obligation - and Portugal and us and other countries have a referendum to preserve what is called parliamentary democracy as an eyewitness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Papachristopoulos, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I want to believe Merkel is different from Shoeble. She's mine, throw her away! And I was glad to hear that it would be a fourth president, not someone who has been disliked by Germany all over the planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u129	So do we. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u130	Mr. President, may I speak for two minutes? Not for Obama, for the Report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u131	No, you said it all and you were clear in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u132	I would like to make a clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u133	Here you go. Make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u134	I'm sorry, Minister. Now that we have reached the curiosity of the debate, I would like to stress that the figures are not questionable. One can have a different view of the explanation of numbers. I therefore give our opinion on the justification of the figures: the cash available was at the end of January 1,9 billion euros. But note: we insist that this is why political uncertainty is being imposed on the country because of the way in which elections were provoked, because if the current government was elected for four years and the previous government was elected for four years and the next one will be elected for four years. You do not have the uniqueness of the four-year period as a vote of the Greek people. And the previous government for four years had been elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Tasouula, the only one will have it, the one who runs out first. Do we agree to get this over with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u136	Therefore, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is the different assessment we have in order to justify the failure of 1.5% of the surplus, which, in our opinion, is solely due to the political uncertainty imposed by the SYRIZA as a result of the elections it caused in January 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u137	I too want to speak, Mr President! What's that thing? Everyone wants to be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u138	I should like to say to you, Mr President: and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is so vital that we discuss the balance sheet, which relates to another government during the term of office of another government. I say we end it here and Mr Juliarakis will take the floor and close the way the debate should. In addition, Mr Papachristopoulos said that Mr Juliarakis was better aware of this. Here, Mr. Juliarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. On the question of the Report and the Balance sheet of the year 2014, I have, I think, been placed - in detail - in the debate of the respective committee. I therefore argued there that 2014 was a year of failed macroeconomic management not only because the financial result significantly deviated the primary surplus target by EUR 1.1% or EUR 2 billion, but mainly because in 2014, the last year of the second adjustment programme, the government failed to create the conditions for exiting the country from the committee and access to the international markets. This is true, even if we assume that at the end of January 2015 there were no elections. I reminded the committee that the second programme expired at the end of February 2015, that in a country that has been successfully leaving the programme and accessing the markets, nine months before or at the latest six months before the exit of the public debt interest rates were gradually deviating and I stressed that the Greek debt interest rates since September 2015, when Mr. Loverdos saw signs of recovery on the market, were gradually up from 6% to 7%, to 8.5% and 8.5% before the presidential elections. Before the presidential elections the course of negotiation and integration in a third programme by the previous government was already set. I would dare say, in fact, that the previous government went to elections knowing that it could not avoid a third programme. And to be fair to say that the previous government could not have successfully completed the second programme. It could not be, because the parameters on which the second programme was based were unrealistic. Our government, the current government, learnt valuable lessons from the failure of the two previous programmes and exploited them - and I would say that it effectively exploited them in the summer negotiations of 2015 - by reducing the primary surplus targets and agreeing to a course of budgetary adjustment that is clearly milder. That's it for 2014. I do not want to be tiring about what I have said in committee. I am pleased that there is at least an agreement between the Government and the New Democracy, but also the Democratic Assent that the Parliament's process of accounting and balance sheet is, in fact, a very important process, I would say a reflection on the public finances of the year in question, which we all have to take seriously. This process is very much under consideration if the financial result of that year, in our case in 2014, is compatible with the objectives set by the 2014 budget. It also looks at how a possible negative deviation from the target is financed and at what costs. This is the agenda, if you like, for the corresponding year's balance sheet. Adoption of the balance sheet means the following: it means ratification of the public finances by the Greek Parliament. It means, if you want, an agreement on the main economic sizes of 2014 and nothing more. I don't underestimate how important it is. It is extremely important that we all speak the same language. We should learn the same lessons. We need to know what happened then. But under no circumstances does it mean adopting the measures of the previous government, the Samara government. We know our disagreements, but in sizes we can agree. I think everyone or almost everyone can understand that difference. Electronic press releases presented the Parliamentary Representative of the River to state - I repeat - "with a recommendation of Juliaraki the measures of the Government of Samaras in 2014". I have given this opportunity to the Head of the River, but also to the Parliamentary spokesman, by two letters, which I did not share in the newspapers - I had no reason to do so - to clarify whether he really did make this statement, whether he wants to disprove it or not to point to what point in my speech I and the SYRIZA Government adopted the 2014 Samara measures. Mr Amyras avoided answering in writing, and I must say that in his position today he did not enlighten me any more. Because we all have to take responsibility for what we say, I repeat my request. Does Mr Amyras object to press releases showing the government of SYRIZA and me personally recommend the adoption of the 2014 Samara measures? If he doesn't, tell me what part of my speech I'm making this suggestion. In the Minutes of this House, I am waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u141	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you sent me a letter. I have the first letter in my hands. You sent her the second time I was in plenary about half an hour ago, so I haven't read it. Anyway, it hasn't come to my hands. Write in your letter to Mr. Theodorakis, Mr. Amyras and notification to Mr. Danellis: "Dear Mr. Theodorakis, I write to you about today's publications presented by your party's Parliamentary spokesman Mr. Amyras to state, on the basis of the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of a State's statement of account and balance sheet 2014, that the measures of the Government of Huliaraki were adopted in 2014." I gave you the opportunity to tell me when the meeting started. I came to ask you where you saw what you referred to in your letter. Where did you see it? I asked you whether you had heard my interview and my report to the committee. There I would say to you - as the reproduction has been - that I am coming to the second point, the substance of the vote. It is paradoxical to vote for a government majority which is contrary to its sacred and oaths. Such a vote is, to my mind, equivalent to the acceptance of the financial statements of 2014.’ So tell me, first, where did you see what you've given me in introductory forms? Where did you see it say it or write it in the Minutes? One of the prisoners. Two. Where's the misunderstanding? The title. What did Mr. Amyras say and became a title? Of course, as a journalist, I have to tell you that for twenty-five years the interviewee has not taken them off, but the indoor ladder. As the Member said, the relevant committee of Parliament was called upon to vote back the last two years and in essence the measures of Antonis Samaras, which SYRIZA accused of. That's my point of view. What can we do? Shouldn't I have that opinion? I shall submit to the Minutes and your letter and the post of title of which nothing arises. But let go of the post. I'm telling you back here. I have taken the floor, and I told you to leave the papers, what they give me and what they don't pay. I say to you that this parliamentary procedure actually leads the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, to consecrate directly or directly with the economic activity of other governments. I'm telling you, this is something your special speaker has pointed out again. He said we were in a contradictory situation. We approve things that go beyond us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Amyuras, because the subject has been raised and to close it, I propose that we put it in the Rules of Procedure when needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, let me close in twenty seconds. Minister, I have the feeling that neither you nor I belong to the 30% of the Greek population who, according to an OECD survey, find it difficult to understand a text. Read again what I told you in committee and I did what you said to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u145	Good! Look, to conclude, we have said that the contradiction of this is also a weakness of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u146	You weren't here, Mr. President, but I pointed it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u147	Plus, he made a mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, seventeen members of the Association of Giannitons "Agios Georgios" of the Municipality of Tripolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Amyras, the report that the Deputy Minister of Finance and therefore the SYRIZA Government adopted the 2014 Samaras measures is everywhere in the electronic press. Anyone who wants to can see it. I'm glad that, if I understand correctly, you deny that this is what you said. But I was telling you that also populism is not enough to fight it in words, but we also have to do it in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u150	All right, now! How far will the little kitten go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u151	It will be over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u152	Can I put the word "repack"? What word do you want me to put? You suggest as a journalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u153	You're a journalist too, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u154	Let me put the word'specify' in the position of the word said by Mr Houliarakis. Let's get this over with! Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u155	In what? Have you clarified what? Let me say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u156	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u157	I say again that there is a way of escaping a government or a minister, the expedient, from the difficult position to adopt the economic policy of a previous government two years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u158	This isn't about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Amyras, didn't you hear what I said before? Excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u160	I want to say one more thing. This procedure has a political substance. You want to tell me this is a bureaucratic process that a accounting office can do? Didn't you hear what we talked about here? Didn't we make comparisons between 2014 and 2016? But...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Amyras, I told you something, but you didn't hear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u162	Just a minute, Mr President! It is a populist who says he will break with a law, an article, a memorandum and bring us to sit on a new memorial. He's a populist, Minister! And in any case, I told you again from the seat of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u163	All right, Mr. Amyras! Please! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned. Disclosure of the State Report, financial year 2014’ and ‘b. Settlement of the State Balance Sheet for the financial year 2014’. Asked by this House: Will the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Reforming the State's State's State's Report, financial year 2014?’ The accepting of the draft law, please rise. [[Accepting the draft law]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of State Report, financial year 2014’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u164	Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Statement of the State's Balance Sheet for the financial year 2014’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of State Balance Sheet 2014’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u166	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-16-S1-commons.u167	With the consent of the House at 19.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 17 November 2016 at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a special plenary session dedicated to the day of memory and honour for the revolt of the Polytechnic School, in accordance with the special agenda that has been distributed to you.
