ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 1-1-2016, the PR's PR's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings of Tuesday, 12 January 2016 with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Defence Material’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 15 January 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health about the operation of the computing tomographer (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 386/12-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation of the 'claw back' measures and the amount of return (rebate) to the costs of private providers of the EEA for the year 2014. 3. The 372/11-1-2016 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the development of the projects for the former airport of Greece. 4. The Question No 382-12-1-2016 by Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health concerning the problems of anti-physical vaccination in Greece. 5. The Question No 369/12-1-2016 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the "prudential condemnation of the Hellenic Republic by the Court of Justice of the European Union (WEU) of overruns of the maximum weekly working time of doctors". 6. The 370/11-1-2016 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the position of the Ministry for the ‘Racist incident of two Israeli passengers at the expense of Arab-Israelines on a plane in Aegean’. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the granting of a section of the women's detention shop to the Municipality of Korydallos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 389/12-1-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance concerning the assessment of new financial measures for the period 2015-2016. 3. The 373/11-1-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the protection of consumers from excessive charges on electronic interbank transactions and the use of credit and debit cards. 4. The Question No 383/12-1-2016 by Congressman Piraios of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Rural Development, Food and Economy, Development and Tourism on the delays in the payment of production to the customs producers of the country. 5. The 377/12-1-2016 question of the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the attack on retired protesters and chemical and beatings in the center of Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS After consulting the Ministers, I have to say from the outset that we will propose the current questions from the Ministry of Education. He is here and the Minister, Mr. Friend, who has been in touch with the other ministers and has asked for his two topical questions to be put forward because he is directly responsible. The eighth will be discussed under number 333/4-1-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the permanent appointment of successful philosophers in the competition of SAEP 2008-2009, which is pending. Minister Nikolaos Friends will answer the timely question. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, more than nine months have passed since Decision 527/2015 of the Council of State, which fully and unanimously justifies, with twenty-nine votes against zero, the request of hundreds of teachers who achieved the 2008-2009 SAAP competition. The final decision of the S.H.E. Plenary Plenary Plenary Session. judges as illegal and unconstitutional the three thousand, about, teachers' appointments, outside the ADP, 2009-2015, when sixty-four successful PPP philosophers of twenty-four-four months remain, for the sixth consecutive year, in a locked table of permanent appointments. The failure to appoint them violates the principles of equality, the legitimate expectations of the citizen vis-à-vis the State and the good administration, while their hostage continues for the school period 2015-2016 as a decision was not adopted by the competent committee of PHS 33/2006 to approve the initiation of the process of permanent appointments. On the basis of the provisions of Article 5(2) of Law No3687/2008 concerning twenty-four-fourths, in conjunction with Article 9(3) and (9) of Law No3848/2010, and the extension of the transitional period referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 9(1) of Law No3848/2010 (VAT 1435c.B/04-06-2014) for permanent appointments of teachers, a solution could be given to covering significant gaps that currently exist in secondary education. In view of the above, you ask, Minister: What steps does the Ministry intend to take to proceed with the permanent appointment of the sixty-four philosophers who remain in hostage, despite their success in the AACC tenders and should they have been appointed since 2009? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I fully understand the anxiety - I can say that I share the indignation - of the successful philosophers of the 2008 AAR. They are teachers, who have been judged through an imprecise evaluation process, who have the skills and educational skills required to become public teachers. But the omission of their appointment, as much as the common sense at first glance, does not violate the principles of equality and good administration and I will explain why. Decision 527/2015 of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, to which you referred, was adopted following four questions from the Administrative Court of Athens concerning an outstanding request for the cancellation of teachers, contained in the tables of nominees of the 2008 PSC tender. These questions are listed in the fifth paragraph of the decision, which I am presenting in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It follows from the foregoing considerations in the Sixth and Seventeenth paragraphs, as well as the operative part of the judgment, that the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State shall reply only to the third question. It is therefore clear about the unconstitutionality of the provisions of Article 9(1), (8) and (9) of Law 3848/2010, which provides that the appointments of permanent teachers could take place in the school year 2011-2012, 60% of the tables of nominations of the AACC and 40% of the single tables of assistants with a real service. The plenary is not in reply to the three questions I mentioned earlier and refers to the case of further judgments at the Administrative Appeal Court, on the grounds that, as stated, the answer to them is incomplete both in the second and fourth questions, which raise further questions as to the owner of these provisions and in the first question concerning Articles 10 and 11 of the Act. 3833/2010, since the contested failure to appoint the applicants was due in particular to the application of the anti-constitutional provisions cited above. 3848/2010. It is obvious that we are awaiting the rulings on the substance of the administrative courts, the Court of Appeal and committing the administration to any decision taken. It is also obvious that the transitional period of paragraph 1 of Article 9 of the Law of 2010, by the decision of the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs of 18-2-2015, was extended until the school year 2015-2016 in the part concerning the appointments of permanent teachers in primary and secondary education from the existing tables of educational appointing directors of the IAS 2008 alone. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr Colleague, I also said at the outset that I share the concern and indignation of teachers. They're not just the ones you mentioned, but they're others. We have set up a working group at the Ministry which examines all legal possibilities in order to proceed with a fair system of appointments of teachers. If, in the meantime, there are other final decisions that they consider illegally to be outside the educational service, I repeat that we will of course comply. We have to comply. The important thing is that, after many years of aptitude, the government, depending on the course of the budget, has since this year planned to proceed to mass appointments of teachers in primary and secondary education. They are necessary to ensure in practice the constitutional requirement for free public education. They are necessary in practice to ensure the success of the reform plans at school for a fourteen-year compulsory education gradually, step by step from now on. We believe that since 2016, with procedures that we will determine, there may be recruitment for the first time in thousands of teachers. The Ministry has a three-year plan for recruiting twenty-thousand teachers in the first and second grades of education. We are in agreement, I repeat, with a view to starting a step forward - this recruitment process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Lazarides, here, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all from your position, I see that you are approaching this issue with sensitivity and thank you very much. It's also one of the many problems that come from the past, because in the past they used to put the problems under the carpet. Now the carpet has risen and you see that too many problems have come to the surface, which we have to deal with. One of these is the fact that we are discussing today, which is a major social and moral order and which requires that it be restored. As I said earlier, Minister, everything started in 2008 when by ministerial decision, before the competition, the positions for philosophers fell from six hundred to four hundred eighty. The reason for the reduction is obvious, i.e. to increase the positions to be taken out of the SAPA tender procedure. In other words, they wanted to put those who would choose with well-known opaque procedures. In fact, here, I'm going to mention some numbers, to see how much they had reduced the recruitments that would be done through APA, compared to those who would be hired outside APA. In some cases, in other words, half of those who would be hired under the AACC procedure in relation to those who would be hired outside AACC were taken down. I'll only mention the numbers so I won't consume the time. Appointments 2009-2014. Chemicals under the ASEP process seventy-seven and off-SAP ninety-four. The difference is over 30%. In other words, more than 30% of those who would be hired under the non-ACP procedure. Theologians, in accordance with the AACC's procedure, fifty-six and non-ACP's fifty-nine. Now look at the difference in the philologists, Minister. Philologists under the procedure of the AACC four hundred eighty, except for AACC seven hundred eighty. I mean, the difference is over 40%! And I keep going. Mathematical two hundred sixty-six, three hundred fifteen, etc. Let me not mention the others. In all categories, those who were hired out of ADP were far more. In fact, they were baptized with the paintings as "deputies" in order to be able to legalise their recruitments. In conclusion, Minister, I would once again like to ask you to ensure that these people are restored, because, indeed, all these years have a problem for themselves and their families and, in any case, as we have said earlier, it is also a question of moral order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, we are in agreement on the substance. Of course you should know that there is also a sensitivity to substitutes, because these people have been turning all over Greece for many years into an occupational insecurity scheme and have been offering a lens billboard. Therefore, as far as the recruitment process is concerned, when we compare the ADP process and the process with the substitute tables, we should not underestimate the educational supply and the long-term educational experience. But, if you like, it is a state obligation towards those who, I repeat, offer against a small wage contribution throughout the country, in difficult circumstances and in a situation of uncertainty. I repeat that we are bound by the judgments of the courts. I also hope that, with a mass recruitment programme from 2016, we will gradually be able to deal with the issue of appointments, without sectoral, intra-sectoral and trade disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, please, I would like the floor for a second. I'll just say a word. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u10	What exactly do you want, Mr. Lazarides? Do you want the floor on your question and the answers you have received from the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u11	A clarification, Mr President. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u13	My placement had nothing to do with the replacements. I did not speak against the deputies, Minister. I just wanted to say with the deputys that we should also see this because it is a major ethical issue. My placement, that is, was not against the deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u14	You're right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u15	Good, Mr. Lazarides. Your opinion has been recorded. Before going to the next timely question, let me make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is tabling its report in the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on "Standardisation of corrigendum amendments to the Convention on the Version between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada by exchanging financial communications". We are now entering the fourth with number 365/11-1-2016 topical question by Attica MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of Eastern Attica schools. The Minister of Education, Mr. Friends, will answer. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question in its original form was tabled about a month ago. Unfortunately, it is debated with a delay. Perhaps some of the elements mentioned in the question have been changed. However, the gaps and shortcomings in the Eastern Attica schools have certainly not changed radically, and in some cases they have also changed for the worse. Here I shall mention a few examples. We are talking about an area, Eastern Attica, where there are too many accumulated problems in the field of education. They are the gaps, they are the shortages of primary and secondary education, they are the problem of the school roof. It may be from the first parts of the world - without underestimating any other area - with such intense, acute problem of school roofing, with schools where students are forced to assemble in dangerous conditions. Of course, these problems are growing and from time to year they become bigger. This year we arrived January - mid-Genaris - and the school gaps have not yet been addressed. It is characteristic that in secondary education there are still a hundred forty - four gaps in a number of specialties. Fifteen of them are in the entire school. 50% of the full-day schools in eastern Attica are not working and children are forced instead of 16.15 seconds to leave school at 13.15. A similar situation exists for the schools of the reformed program, where instead of the 14.00' children leave at 13.15'. In fact, in some cases where it may not appear as a gap in time, there is, in fact, a gap in education, in the sense that the teacher or a teacher of another specialty is forced to fill this gap. Thus, while it seems that there is no gap, in fact there is a gap in education, because the course - necessarily - teaches it by a teacher who does not have the corresponding expertise. We therefore consider that this whole situation undermines both the educational process and the right of their children and families to education and we ask the government to take immediate steps to fill these gaps with mass appointments. We are also calling for the acute problem of the school roof, which - I repeat - leads to dangerous situations in too many East Attica schools. That is the content of our question to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, you are right that they have changed, that data have improved in time, in the month that has flowed from the statement to the debate today on your timely question in Parliament. Of course, this month, as you know, there was the issue of the celebrations and the reopening of the House after the holidays. You will be aware that when you have tabled the JRC and you personally - questions concerning education, there is an answer here in the House too. We've answered, I think, two other questions yours. And this, because we recognise an interest in development, upgrading,'strengthening' of free and public education and your own space? and because I think it is the government's duty from wherever it receives questions about the state of education, to answer specifically - not journalistic and reporting - with a view to improving and upgrading public education. That's what we did this year. We have snubbed down public spending on education to 2.8% of GDP. Memorandum years, during the five-year period of the memorandum, public investment in education fell by 35%. And if we had the Samara government today, committed in the medium term, then we would have a further fall to 2% of GDP in 2018. This 0.8% of GDP is a few billion - not just figures - which, in the overall budgetary crisis which has also affected education, would mean a collapse of the public education system. Also, the co-financed programmes of the ESDP - which have been used by previous governments to replace budget gaps in even educational staff, recruitment of alternates - have been differentiated since this year in their breakdown by region. For example, in Attica the region is outside the ESRB's objectives, so that we cannot hire many categories of deputies from the ESRB's money. These charges have been transferred this year to the ordinary budget. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to say to you that within the budgetary conditions you know, we have made a feat as a government. We have increased the number of alternates this year by 20% - the alternates exceeded twenty-two thousand - so that we can deal with the operating problems of the schools. In these circumstances, in the region of East Attica, we carried out three hundred and eighty-eight recruitments of teachers and ninety-nine kindergartens for General Education, which were used for placements in vacant areas of the morning zone and of full-day departments, as well as two recruitments of teachers and sixty-eight kindergartens exclusively concerned with the full-day programme. Especially at the 2nd Elementary School of Anavyssos, which refers to your question, there have been nine teachers' gaps since the beginning of the school year and a number of training courses, which have been gradually covered. The full-day programme was in operation until the end of November for grades A to D to 14.00 while today in the school unit, the full-day programme is working normally for all grades until 16.15. As far as the recruitment of special education is concerned, you know that this year there has been a record of recruitment, that is 50% more than last year. In the eastern Attica area, twenty-five teachers and two kindergartens have been recruited for parallel support. Seventy - five recruitments of branch teachers and nineteen kindergartens have been made. Also, there have been three phases of specializations, which are: Fifteen English teachers, eight German working hours, thirty one artistic course, twenty-four Physical Education, twenty-five music, twenty-six Dramatic Art and Theatrical Studies and five Informatics. Of course, I recognise that there are gaps in teachers' qualifications and in the region of Eastern Attica. It is obvious that the situation has been better since last year, but that does not let us rest. You know very well that we have already planned - we have already announced it - a programme of mass recruitment of teachers since 2016. The planning of the Ministry is in three years - starting in 2016 - to have hired twenty thousand teachers. We are in the necessary consultation to save money under the Financial Stability Programme. I must also assure you that the fictitious gaps which exist in the field of education - because they exist - will also be addressed. We have already started a process of early study of service changes so that in June we know what permanent organic positions are and who will go there, without any abuse of extracts and other situations that you, like all of us, are aware of. I must also tell you that in our attempt to reconstruct the educational area and give it a democratic direction and an effective educational function, we are also making progress in selecting new training managers, which is being completed at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you've already reached six and a half minutes. You have time in your dentistry too. You have three minutes of intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u20	I will only say that and nothing else. This is also on the basis of the democratic participation of teachers and also on the basis of the so-called aptitude criteria. I think that in the new educational structure, we will be able to deal with a much more substantial and timely problem, starting with specific issues that you mentioned and are created in the East Attica, where we are drawing up a new plan for dealing with the problems. Because Eastern Attica is, in fact, a new region with a population explosion and a lack of infrastructure, as you have said. In all of this, there will be an answer and planning in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u22	Minister, in any case, regardless of what took place in the mid-term, on 23 December it was the gaps I mentioned in my prototype, that is, a hundred and forty-four teachers in the field of primary education and 50% of full-day schools did not work as a whole. Similar problems existed in the schools of the reformed programme on 23 December. If you now think it was a wretch of the government, that is to say, to reach 23 December and to have such gaps in schools in Eastern Attica, then I cannot imagine what would happen if that government did not exist. The problem, however, remains. There are still gaps, and in some cases they have deteriorated, because there are some teachers who have obtained pregnancy permits, as they were entitled to and had to take. So the gaps remain. I am also saying that in some cases there seems to be no gap, because another teacher, a teacher, is forced to fill the gap from the lack of an educational qualification. And while it seemingly seems that there is no gap in the program, in the operation of the school, there is actually a gap. The question therefore remains: What will the government do to solve the gaps and what measures will it take with mass appointments - it is not the problem, neither with the NRP nor any of them - so that this problem will not be re-established? Because with today's data - we do not want to be bad guys - we predict that the problem will be even more acute, and here we will be talking about it. I wish that we would fall outside, but with today's data and with the commitments made by the government, with budgetary discipline and with the cuts in public school, as well as in a number of other areas of social policy, we believe that this problem will return sharply, apart from the fact that it has not even been solved today. We also believe that this situation, as I have said before, is not only undermining the educational process, the right of children to education, but essentially leads to a disruption in the function and planning of a family. And here we are talking about families of folk family. You know that in the region of Eastern Attica a industrial centre has been formed, we are talking about working people, who are actually suffocating in such a situation, in deficits, in school house problems, in the transport of pupils, in a problem that is also acute and evicted, Mr Minister, in other situations. There were a lot of examples in the year that passed and now where families are forced into his name to operate the school as - like, "we do a fundraiser, we put our hand in the pocket to cover the school's gaps in teachers, in logistics, etc. Of course, we say that demand is needed and there must be no compromise with this situation. But that is where too many families are being evicted today and there are such examples. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because there has also been a lot of talk about Mr Triantafylides' article in the newspaper "AGEY", you should know that many times there is no need for a government to legislate directly. However, we let a situation develop, we let things evolve and then a government legislate on the ground, and in many cases the situation in the public school is that. These views of Mr Triantafylides could be ignored as unrealistic, if there were no such situation and if they were not even expressed in the official body of the party which is in the government and in the context of a debate on education - a pretext, we say, as was the pretext of the debate on insurance and it seems with the proposal put forward by the Government - which aims to legitimise data and a fait accompli. We call on parents not to have deceit. The only option they can really do in order to solve the problems is to fight, to claim, because in the current state of the commitments made by the memorandum, from an economy that is in crisis today, and to overcome it, we think that these problems should be even more burdened by burdening the working people and the working people of Europe. That is why we need a struggle, a claim, to solve the problems immediately and, of course, to overthrow this policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr Colleague, I will agree with you that there is a need to fight, to claim, but with a plan, not with irresistible cries and not by dismantling the attempted social and national dialogue on education...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u25	Pretext, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u26	... because, unfortunately, members of your party took the lead in canceling, not even the first public conference of social and national dialogue the other day at the Pasteur Foundation. If you think that's the idea of a fight, you're wrong. This is not a fight, it's not a claim. Not having a conversation with critics...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u27	This is not a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u28	...with confrontations, no objections, but to present proposals and not generally emit a password and curses. If - I say - not all of this will be done, then this is not a fight, it is a revolutionary gymnastics. In introductorys and revolutionary and gymnastics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u29	You may consider Mr Triantafylides' proposals. We do not have such proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u30	However, we are waiting for the JRC's proposals within the reality that there is today, a cruel reality which we cannot take into account. We must not submit ourselves, we must not only defend ourselves, we must have a development plan for school, democratic, public, free of charge. I recognise that this debate, this public debate, where we will have specific proposals and commitments, may disturb some, but it is necessary, to reinstate the education of public interest and to escape from the greatness of the neoliberal dogmas of supposed economic efficiency. You referred to two articles by Mr Triantafylides. They are his personal views which do not reflect the concern of the Ministry and the Government on the subject of education. The fact that they were published in the newspaper “AUTHI” does not constitute a “passenger” element. That is the freedom to express opinions. It is not a party institution, it is a left-wing press of opinion. It would be very interesting to learn the concerns of your party, if any, about the issues of education in a public debate. We cannot dialogue behind closed doors on such issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u31	But dialogue is taking place, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u32	I say, does your party not develop an internal dialogue on education issues? Instead of learning a decision, let us listen to all the views that may exist in you. This means democratic dialogue and not dialogue in the form of a pretext, in the context of a party and with closed doors. Our dialogue is not a pretext, we have no preconceived decisions. Step by step - step forward, and there will certainly be an effective response, as long as we can, with a draft of educational democratic reform, aimed at having fourteen years of compulsory education in our country, including full-day school everywhere. Such steps will take place since September, with a programme of masses - we stress - appointments. Therefore, within the difficult budgetary conditions you will see that a left-wing government raises the question of the reconstruction of the social state, with education and health as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organized and operating, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers from the 134th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed to the debate on the next topical and urgent question. It is the first under number 359/11-1-2016 timely question of the first cycle of MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Simorellis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the legislative initiatives of the Ministry, so that the insurance funds can seek the unpaid benefits in a fair manner. Mr. Simorelli, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for finding the time to answer my question. A huge social and economic issue that has emerged and taken particular weight lately in the Trikalon Prefecture - but I imagine in other cities in Greece - is the search for the unpaid benefits paid by the insurance institutions. We have received phenomena where the IKA asks the insured - pensioners to reimburse the sums of thousands of euros that it paid to them without having to pay them in previous years for miscalculated or incomplete control. As is well known, in accordance with the basic regulation of the IKA, any unpaid benefit is repaid by way of interest. It is also true from the basic principles of social security law and the principle of good administration that the search by a periodic insurance institution for benefits after a reasonable period of five years - from their recovery, if the benefits have been paid without being due by the insurance institution, is only allowed if it is established that the person who received the sums sought was in receipt of them in a fraudulent manner vis-à-vis the institution. In fact, if the search is directed against a person other than the one who received the amount - heirs - the deceit must also be on his face. Furthermore, as I had already pointed out in a question under parliamentary control, we see the competent IKA services inform a large number of pensioners and heirs of insured persons who are being asked to pay large sums of money for benefits they received without them knowing that they were being granted illegally. In view of the fact that there are heirs who received a primary pension from the OGA, who, when they learned that they were receiving unlawful benefits, wanted to return them but were unable, because debt cancellation is in the 20th year and are faced with an increase of 35%.Since they learned that the inability of the insurance system has to identify and inform citizens in good time on such issues. As it runs counter to the principle of good administration, the search for periodic insurance contributions after a reasonable period of time after their collection, is the Minister asking: What legislative initiatives will he implement so that the insurance funds can seek the benefits unduly paid in a fair manner?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u35	Mr Simorellis' timely question will be answered by Minister Petropoulos. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Simorellis, since 1951 it has been predicted by the n. 1846 that procedure for the recovery of unpaid benefits, i.e. benefits paid without due to those received. It was not this provision, and, of course, it was about the sums that someone took, and it was rich without the right to do so. That is the notion of ‘impossible’. And I think, as in any case, anyone who has enriched to return their illegal enrichment should also be here. There is a distinction between the one who has kindly acquired this enrichment and the one who has deceived me. And this distinction is related to the obligation to allow this money. The person who well received the money from his own fault, from his own omission, has been subject to an obligation from the day that this amount is being sought. In fact, with a circular of the IKA it becomes clear that from the day it is notified to repay the sums, the interest starts to run, which is 5% a year on the amount received without being entitled to it. I think that we cannot rightly exclude it from the obligations of the one who has become richer without it being entitled to it because it harms social security and the common purpose. On the basis of rights, the benefits must be obtained and not one should acquire more rights than other insured persons. In particular, the OGA provides that if benefits which are not entitled to a pension exceed the amount of 12 pensions, this amount must be reimbursed in the amount exceeding 12 pensions and after that, half of the pension shall be retained until such amount has been paid. It usually happens that insured persons who receive a basic pension from the OGA, get another pension. And it is laid down by law that only if he does not receive another pension is the farmer taking the basic. In these cases, whoever gets two pensions is wrongly taking the OGA pays. In these cases, withholding must be effected from the pension received by another institution during 1/5. Of course, the heirs are obliged to pay what they received from the acquirer illegally inherited. That's what's happening to the IKA. It is so, with the difference that especially for the OGA, the heir is exempted from the obligations of the inherited person, regardless of whether he was well-faithed or misguided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Simorelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u38	Minister, I would like to say this: we are not talking about people who have enriched. We're talking about people who have low incomes, about people who didn't have fraud, and we're talking about things that were made by wrong calculation of the insurance fund. And we now go and ask them, to people who have a low income and who have no fraud, 35% increase and amounts, and we turn back years, at least 20 years. The information I have is as follows: in 1996, we are now turning back twenty years and going to 2002. I think we can get through this, and if I'm not cheating, it's illegal. So my request is this: we need to look at this with great understanding. We are not talking about people who have enriched themselves, as you said, about people with low incomes, without fraud and especially about the heirs, who, after ten years, come to ask for some amounts where they, because of low income, are unable to pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Simorellis. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr Simorelli, enrichment is a legal concept. I don't mean under any circumstances that he became a rich man. It is a legal concept and this designation is provided for in the relevant provisions. As far as the 20-year limitation is concerned, there is also the law. It is not something that is done without the law and in fact the 20-year-old limitation is beginning to start from the last payment of a instalment paid. So, as far as the general power is concerned, we cannot make another speech. Of course, if there are errors in services, there is still one who has no right to do so, but if this is the case, I think it can be done by the relevant local administrative committees of the IKA or the competent body of objections in the OGA, in order to determine these cases, because no one is obliged to do so in the weak and much more if there is a responsible behaviour by the public administration, it must comply as far as its own responsibility is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u41	We have many examples of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u42	There are such cases, therefore, and they are done with objections. They are viewed by the competent bodies, including representatives of bodies, representatives of stakeholders themselves and, as a general rule, the objections of IKA members of local administrative committees and of the bodies of objections shall be dealt with in particular. As far as the Minister's policy is concerned, we have provided a sample of writing - and I personally - recently, a few weeks ago, when I solved a problem affecting the mothers of minors working at the Commercial Bank and coming from the Commercial Bank's fund, which were persecuted by the search for many thousand euros and which stopped this happening. It was a big problem that has been agitating for over six years the insured of this category and solved. Because they were entitled to receive this pension, but they were taken by an unauthorized body and the other competent body was persecuted by collecting and enforced by these women, while the administration had to solve the problem. We solve the problem this way. We consider the administration of social security institutions to be jointly liable for the reimbursement of rights by insured persons and where there are such problems we solve them. If there are such problems, you can be sure that we will be able to resolve them and do not exist, i.e. that the insured are charged when they are not responsible for what has happened. If that happens, you can be sure that our ministry will deal with it. In the context of the insurance reform we have provided for provisions of such a uniform social security system, which makes the services of insured persons even more important in a fair and direct way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before going to the next timely question, let me read some of the questions which are not going to be discussed. The fourth under number 364/11-1-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to be taken on student relocations, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question, under number 356/8-1-2016, is the first question of the Piraeus II of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health concerning the ratification of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on tobacco control, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The seventh under No. 355/7-1-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the activation of an internal control unit of the Ministry of Health and the criteria for selecting Governors - Subordinates of hospitals by the evaluation committee, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. We enter the debate of the third under number 358/8-1-2016 topical question by Mr. Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the simplification of recruitment and contraction procedures relating to the employment of land workers. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, we have been concerned for many years with the issue of land workers and even with the workers who do not have the legal documents that one could use today through the procedures of the public administration to be able to deal with the agricultural laws of Greece. He had dealt with us old - and with Mr Koutsouko, when he was a State Secretary for Labour and with many other ministers in the past few years - to find the gold incision. To help, as far as we could, the employers, that is to say, those farmers who were in need of labour, and those people who come here to find a job, but because the public administration does not have the necessary documents, other insurance systems are in place in the intervening period from the other ministries and a real mess is being created in the whole process of finding work and issuing a contract for these people. This time in Laconia you know it's a period of orange and olive collection. So we need the workers' hands. The weather, thank God, this year was better than the previous years, but there are some variations. So while the employer goes and takes out the bachelor’s in the name of Gregorakos, the next day he does not come to work, and as you can see, a huge tail is created and a huge delay in issuing the contract to specific individuals. In the past few years I have expressed my opinion and now I will express it to you too. This issue of the great bureaucracy that we are facing with regard to the issue of the extradition of workers to specific people who do not have legal papers from the countries that come from - usually the Pakistan and Bangladesh countries and who have already dealt with us - is to simplify it from the government and I have a proposal that I will make to you in my dentistry so that employers and workers can also enjoy their work, namely the money they have to take, but also their insurance rights. I expect your answer to the question I have asked you and I will tell you my suggestion in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gregoraco, I believe that your contribution will be important and positive and I will hear it. Because it is also in our own minds to find a solution to this issue. As far as our competence is concerned, no one should be allowed to work unless they are protected. These should not include those who are in this fate, that is to say, without legal documents in a country that was not their wish, when they were born, to be. In their place they'd like to be. We must look at this with sensitivity to them, but also in a way that really protects the production process, to find a solution to this problem. We have appreciated that we do have about three hundred thousand people working on agricultural crops. If we look at the livestock facilities, that figure is much bigger. We have around five hundred thousand legally employed immigrants in our country, and there is a large part that works in this way that does not favour legality in the production process. This can't be done in the way it's been done for so many years. On the occasion of the insurance reform that we are moving on - and I believe that with your support we will succeed - we have sought solutions to the issue of the construction so that it can be done in a more direct way so as to avoid this problem. It really happens to make a bachelor and not be used because it caught a storm, due to weather conditions that were unforeseen. I think that we will resolve this problem with the possibilities offered by technology so that the day-to-day day is published at the start of employment or the day-to-day. We now know that there are technical means to ensure that the farmer knows whether it will rain the next day, so I do not think it is unpredictable anymore, with the potential of the meteorological forecast, to know that the next day there will be good weather conditions. So we'll find a more direct way. I must also say something that our farmers must listen to. We see and plan the solution to deducting the mistress from its revenues so that he, too, can actually have an incentive to be lawful to employment, because you know that employment, when it is done, damages the way in which Greek workers are paid. But Greek workers must also be insured. Greek agricultural workers, land workers, must also be insured. They are not insured for the same reason that others are not. Just because someone has to be insured, it's definitely a reason for us to find solutions. Mr. Gregoraco, I'm waiting for your own proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Gregorakos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u48	Minister, I'm going to present you with these documents I have. I would like to say to you that as regards facilitating the procedure, we could have a mistress without being a specific insurance body. So we don't have to get out for IKA, get out for the OGA, get out for the OAE. Why would we do that? We'd have a bachelor for all the workers, which we could use at best. We are the state, we will make the collection. What we're going to do next with the insurance funds is a matter of our own, the government, the state. So I have something to suggest to you. In the past, you had said that you would solve the question if you became a government. Mr Koutsouku had said that every producer - an employer would have told the police that workers would not have the necessary documents. That's where we're stuck now. The police would issue a temporary residence permit, end the period in question, either for the collection of olives or for the collection of oranges or for the collection of peaches in Imathia or other agricultural products, and then they could be paid by a particular herd. This proposal did not go any further then. We expect the new government to resolve this issue, and I believe that a five-month residence permit for these non-legislative immigrants to work in a specific area would solve the issue, but the issue will be resolved once and for all, Minister, by a single worker. It's taken by the employer and it's one without being specific about what fund that's going to go to. We're taking the bachelor's, he's paid the insurance contributions, and everything's fine. This story of another bachelor for one another, another bachelor for the other, and for the other it is for us all to be involved, and so do we. I'm waiting for your answer. I believe that you will give a solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, out of order, to ask the Minister, will you give me the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Maniatis, you know it's not foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would be happy to take the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u53	Excuse me now, shall we completely overthrow the procedures? You are old in Parliament, you know the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u54	I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u55	You could work with Mr Gregorako and perhaps tell him what you would like to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u56	Because the same issue is being dealt with by Argolida, to help the Minister with the support of what I hope he will say and to say that exactly such proposals have been tabled by Argolida...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u57	But I think that always questions may have a local peculiarity, but, if you like, Mr Gregoraku's specific question concerns the whole territory. It's not just about Laconia or Argolida.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u58	It does, however, make it easier, Mr President, Minister. A similar proposal has also been tabled by Argolida and we fully support such proposals as Mr Gregoraku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u60	Because Mr. Maniatis is also a Member of the Argolida, I accept his legitimate interest. All of us must be of interest to each other. Our country has an agricultural production that we must all support. This way of calculating the land will support agricultural production. On this occasion, I must say that the reform we are seeking to achieve helps farmers in particular and in this part of employment, with a bachelor that will be cut off. One will be the first, because one will be the single social security institution. Therefore, this multiplicity will not exist. And here are the goods of unification of the institutions that are very good and the functionality of the system, as well as the returns of the benefits and contributions and the service of the insured. I'm sure it'll be one. The methods of collection will be modern and this relationship will not be at all problematic, because so far many people have been working under a bachelor's roof. There's that problem, too. With a bachelor's work, he was working for 50 and sold 'in the black'. These will disappear because the bachelor has had too many problems in his operation and instead of leading to revenue collection, he has also led to a loss of revenue. Of course, for us the work being done by someone, in the principles that apply to our judicial system, does not justify that it should not be paid when it is working legally. He must be rewarded. Since, therefore, it must be legally paid, this part and the insurance contribution must be paid. But that's not all. It's Greek worker's bachelor too. We have a huge loss of revenue from the Greeks who work and do not have lots or lots and complement their income with employment in the farm of our colleague, the next farmer and who also do not receive contributions, do not receive an insurance wage. And this problem needs to be solved. There's a good reason to see it. About a million thousand farmers are the ones who will pay contributions on a low scale. Despite what has been said, there will be no heavy burden on farmers, that is to say, we will not have a confiscation of the agricultural property with the insurance reform. Only four and a half thousand farmers will have a burden of over 13% in relation to what they are doing today. In fact, we are going to resolve such problems within the framework of social security reform, where, along with the mistress that will be exempted from payment by the single social security institution for the costs incurred by the farmer, it will also have a reduction in its revenues. With the distribution that will be done in a way that is very effective in both the agricultural family - wife and children - you will see that it will be a system that promotes the employment of farmers and will strengthen them in a direction of having a national pension for all. I must say something that farmers are missing. In 2026 the remaining balance remains for the basic pension, which, as you know, has been falling by 4% every year since 2002. So there is no basic pension for farmers. Farmers were not even provided for in the previous law - which was never implemented - to receive a basic pension of EUR 360. We will all have to support this effort, both for the mistress and for the overall treatment of the insurance of farmers, as we promote - and with your own remarks, of course, we will see how best we can do this - for a national social security system without exceptions for anyone. Thank you very much, Mr Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the second with number 361/11-1-2016, a timely question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on how to hold parliamentary elections with a list or a cross of preference if they take place within eighteen months of the last elections. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, despite the fact that you have sent me a written answer - but as you will recall, even the answer is unclear - I wanted to ask it today - whether you have come to be clearer, because it is a matter that concerns all three hundred colleagues and those who will be included in the next elections, whenever they become, in the electoral lists of the parties. What does the law say today? He says: "If the parliamentary elections are held within eighteen months of the previous elections, the vote on Members with a cross-reference is not applied to them, but the order for the adoption of seating provisions (lists) of the a.d. 151/1985. In the reply you sent me, you admit, and you say: ‘The grammatical wording of the above provision is indeed unclear. For this reason, the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction has already taken a legislative initiative towards further clarification of this provision.’ Minister, there are two opinions already known. One is the signature of our colleague, Mr Loverdos, and another professor of law - a small book has come out - where this interpretation says, for example, that elections were held in January 1915, eighteen months ending in June 1916, in the eighteenth month of this election, it is on a list. But there is another opinion, which literally interprets the provision of the law that I read to you, which says that if the legislature wanted to say "from the last elections with a cross-reference" it would have written it in the order. Since it does not write it, even now in September, when it took place with a list, the eighteenth month starts from September. So that's the point. As you say that you intend to make a legislative provision, I would ask you if you have come to an end. If so, if not, when do you intend to bring this provision, because as you and me and many other colleagues understand, we are also old Members of Parliament and we know the poorness of the cross, not of hunting it, but of expenditure in particular? And that is why I asked the question briefly, do you have anything to give us on this today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u64	I shall try, Mr President, to reassure my colleague, Mr Kaklamani, because he seems to be afraid of a breakthrough. In fact, point 11 of Article 72 of the d.o.p. 96/2007 produces an ambiguity. However, we must say that although there are opinions from many constitutionalists that the eighteenth, the ratio of the law, can begin with the elections of the cross, there is another view, on the contrary. Besides, in the area of constitutionalists, there is never unanimity - Mr Kaklamanis knows that better than me. We believe that the eighteenth month starts from the day the elections were held with a cross. That's my assessment. On the basis of this assessment, I think that any procedure should be initiated whether it is legislative or not. But even if any government had not made any arrangements, Mr Kaklamani, whatever the decision of a government at that time, since there was an election issue, no one could cancel these elections. So there should be no concern. But because I want to be clear and I do not want to imply to you that my position, the government's position is that the eighteen-month period begins on the day of the cross elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u66	Minister, I think neither I nor you are afraid of crucifixion. And you have been elected on several occasions with a cross, and if I remember well - and I remember well - in Athens I am probably the oldest MP with nine consecutive elections and re-elections. So it's not a matter of fear of the cross. From what I understand, you're going to the Loverdus view - and from what I understand you will bring a provision that explains it, but if that's not the case, you tell me - that from the last election with a cross and for eighteen months, as many times as within this eighteenth month there are elections, then it's on a list, while passing this eighteenth month, from there on it is a cross again and it follows the same thing. Okay, that's what you have to bring. When you bring it, it is certain that opposing views will also be heard, but in any case we need to unleash it. It is not a matter of party controversy, as you can see, a party. More is parliamentary, I would say to you, and less party and government. Just tell me when, about time, you see, you'll bring it in and whether you'll bring it in on its own, or whether you'll put it into a possible change of electoral law, where you'll put it in there. But changing the electoral law may be slow. It is good for this loose end, which is a small correction or clarification in one direction or another, for which Parliament has decided to decide, to tell us when you intend to bring a provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to assure Vice-President Kaklamani and the whole Chamber that the next elections will take place at the end of the four-year period. This government has a strong cohesion, it has been elected in an election framework to take the country out of this great crisis that has been stifling it over the past six years, with important reforms that will have the meaning of reforms. Because if we assess the ongoing reforms and the reforms described and because the political events are judged on the result, we should talk about deregulations in the public administration. In the context of the radical reconstruction of a reform programme, a real reorganisation of the institutions capable of monitoring the development of the economy and technology, the Ministry has in its design a number of initiatives, of course, which have to do with electoral law. I would like to say to Mr Kaklamani that I am one of the politicians who believe - and the government agrees with this - that the electoral law must come to Parliament early so that it does not tempt the governments of the last minute to attempt electoral laws that will serve at that moment's juncture. The political game must be clear, clear. I believe that very early we will have an electoral law that is more fair, restoring genuinely monstrous, when there are elections not even represented, when a party can have a very important presence because it will be a second or a third. There are too many issues both with regard to electoral law and with regard to the issues of the Constitution. Most importantly, however, this government is making an effort to finally set up a public administration that supports the country's productive reconstruction, free of its Russian sisters, bureaucracy and pluralism. We shall proceed with this effort, with the interoperability of the databases, so that we can build a modern state, efficient and functional. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The Greek people must know that they have spent the last 12 - 15 years of EUR 7 billion on these reforms and they are all living the consequences of this real deregulation. Real, multi-level decentralisation, with decentralisation - because we devolve responsibilities and overlapping - will contribute to such a function, as will the committee which we set up yesterday with the denominators of legal schools, with teachers who are approved, so that we can limit the unbearable status of pluralism, which is drowning in every production activity. In combination with the bill that will be submitted for the evaluation and integrity of public administration officials, these are a three-year-old package that will actually try to change this whole model of a state, which since the time I was a student, I have listened to the late Georgios Rally saying that the "great patient" is the public administration. I therefore believe that all these initiatives will be initiatives, which will have the broadest consensus of logic, which holds the majority of our political staff, because public administration, functioning and efficient public administration, replicaicism and with the limitation of pluralism of public administration can really be a tool for development in the needs that the country has at the moment and society. As far as the question and concern of Mr Kaklamani is concerned, I would like to be very clear that the case he is asking is about the January elections. It is not possible to start in the eighteen months in elections that did not have a cross. That is why it is closing this matter. Typically, if that is the case, we will resolve it. What I want to assure the most emphatically is that we all know that the September elections have created a dilemma. They had a commitment to a number of measures to do with the Greek people's obligations before the crisis. These obligations must be fulfilled and complied with. However, we believe that in the context of these commitments it is essential that the country moves towards deep and radical restructuring, re-institutions, so as to be able to meet the needs of times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u69	Minister, please close. You've already exhausted the extra time you could have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u70	All right, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of St. Anargyra. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second question under number 362/11-1-2016 of the New Democracy MP Thesprotia Vasiliou Joyakas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the parametering of the increase in the electricity sales prices by the professional farmers - photovoltaic power stations owners, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under No. 354/7-1-2016 topical question by MP Second Athens, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "SPA PROMOTION AEGEAN Insurance Company", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh question under number 349/5-1-2016 of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Health, concerning the "private of Thrace Muslims in the Ministry of Health recruitment notices", is not discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u74	It's not a minute. You know from the Conference of Presidents that we are giving more. So you'll have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u75	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u76	We have also said in the Conference of Presidents that we do not give a minute, we give much more. We're giving two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u77	When did we say that? When what happens?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u78	When the Member asks for the floor, because the Minister does not come to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u79	I'll give you a minute. You guys try it in the minute, and if it takes a little extra time, you'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you also know that we have spoken at the Conference of Presidents and we have decided what will happen to the ministers who do not come to answer questions. And much more, I also intervened for three specific ministers, Mr Xanthos, Mr Mousal and Mr Polakis, who completely refuse to vote against, insulting parliamentary procedures and Parliament, to answer questions, written and timely, of the Golden Dawn. My question is the premium for Thrace Muslims in invitations to recruit health workers for the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health says that "Greek nationals from the Muslim minority of Thrace are classified in a special list of posts and, in fact, in 5% of the total number of posts declared". The question to which Mr Paulakis refuses to answer - is the third time that comes as a topical question - is: What is the reason why the Greeks belonging to a Muslim minority in Thrace are classified as a separate special category of recruitment and even 5% of them are being donated against the rest of the Greek orthodox religion? Mr President, by refusing to reply today, for the third time, to a question from a Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn, in essence, with his attitude, being an old communist member of the CNN, he accepts that from an old genuine communist he has turned into a neoliberal, sterile memorialist. Because, yes, let Mr. Paulakis come and answer. Would he tell us what, Mr President? Answer what? Tell us what? Mr Paulakis and his two colleagues have shown in their attitude that they might want to show their fellow ministers that they are more horrific, more democratic, more left-wing people? Instead, it's the opposite. So let the cove, Mr. Paulakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u81	Mr Papapas, I would ask you, firstly, to shorten your speech and, secondly, to remove statements concerning Ministers, Members, who are not present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u82	The cove, Mr. Paulakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u83	Please complete it. I think that you have also been tolerant of the Bureau in favour of that. Please hang up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, at the next Conference of Presidents I will present to you the answers from Mr Polakis and Mr Xanthos, who are most enthusiastic. Mr. Paulakis could therefore also honor his office and his left history. In the last ten days, the place for his intervention in the case of his cousin in Crete, with the unjust death of four years old.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u85	Listen, Mr. Pappa. Are you here to create a climate of tension?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u86	He could have resigned, as a Cretan and as a man, but neither is he a man nor a left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u87	I gave you the time to put you on the timely question you had tabled. Unfortunately, I find that you are misusing time. It is unacceptable and I denounce you in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u88	What are you complaining about? Which House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u89	In the House of Parliament. You like it, you don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u90	You're playing theatre! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u91	And if you came here to take off your anti-communist awe or awe, please, too, not in this Chamber. We're out. It's over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u92	Mercy! Please! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students, and a training meeting from the 5th Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. We enter the third with number 352/7-1-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the development of the projects for the expansion of Anavalos in Argolida and the timetable for the completion of the project. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Marcos Bolaris. Mr. Maniotis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question I have tabled to you relates to the Argolidas breath project, the irrigation work of the Anavalus. It is a project that Georgios Papandreou described as "wrong Anabalos". It is indeed a project that continued to be deferred in the six-year period 2004-2009, where, following a question that I submitted to the then Minister for Agriculture about how much money was invested at that time in the specific work of Argolida, the answer was that it did not even exist in the Ministry of Agriculture's investment priorities. The situation, however, changed in the four years 2010-2014, when the deferred Anavalos began to become a realityr, with global investments close to 100,000,000 euros. And very briefly, in order to facilitate your reply, I will tell you that EUR 2,500,000 was allocated in March 2010 for the maintenance of the existing network. In January 2011, studies were commissioned to extend the project to the areas of Epidaurus and Ermionida. In June 2011, sixty thousand acres were set aside for irrigation - this great project we expected -8.2 million for expansion in the Koutsopodio, Mycena and Fiji regions. In January 2015 the extension of EUR 32 million to Epidaurus, which - and in reply I had received several months ago - was at the Court of Auditors. And I would also like you to tell us if you have any picture of when it will be completed. But, Minister, the great issue of Anavalos is what is going on with the Fiji region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In November 2014, the most crucial decision on the project was taken. The natural object was divided into two and another 8,000 euros were allocated for the expansion of the network, particularly in the Mycenaean and Fiji regions. And at the same time, fourteen months were extended to finish the project to Koutsopodi, that is, to finish the project in December 2015. Normally, therefore, on the basis of what we officially have, the task of extending to Kossopodi should have been completed in December 2015. Instead of all the EUR 8 000 000 available to this contractor, the picture we have - that is the information - is that only EUR 4,000,000 has been allocated. As a result, only half of the work has been done, and there are problems with expropriations. I would ask you very much in your answer to have some further information on where these specific speeches are being found, which we are asking for to be informed about. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Bolaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Indeed, the work of Anavalos, a complex project, concerns the irrigation network of Argolida, for which your knowledge, as is presented in this timely question, is excellent. It is quite clear that as a local parliamentarian and in a government capacity in the previous period you have been following it closely. You have put six topics in your timely question. The first issue is the maintenance of an existing network of 2.5 million. It is noted from the point of view of the Office that it is an improvement project of EUR 2,300,000 and it has been completed. It was definitively granted months ago for use in the Argonauupoli GEOB. The second question concerns the studies to extend the project to Ermionida. It is a project that will be truly important, covering irrigation needs of about twenty - two thousand acres. The project is part of CSR 0818. The contractual economic scope of the studies has reached 1,235 000 euros. The reconstructed issue of the budget of the above construction expenditure studies has been approved, with the proposed enhancement of the final study, both hydraulic and electromechanical. The total amount is 48 million. On 1 September 2015, the final receipt of the study was approved, we are ready. The third theme, which is also related to the fifth later, is the network Anavalos - Koutsopodi - Mycenes - Monastery - Fichtia - Chonika - Airport - Greek and Municipality of Mideas. The second recapitulative work table, totalling 8.800,000 has been adopted. To date 4,800,000 have been disbursed. The third recapitalisation table has been deposited. As you have rightly said, there are loose ends with the expropriations of the project and delays. There's an acceleration so we can finish the legal proceedings. There, therefore, focuses on the issue of delays, because involvement in legal, expropriations creates delays in a range of services. However, since the project has gone ahead and does not end within the programming period, which expired on 31-12, it is planned to transfer it to the next one, the one that begins. It is therefore certain that the next amount will also be absorbed once we have dealt with the procedures relating to the delay due to expropriations. Mr President, I must conclude. Let my colleague be placed and I will finish the rest in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u97	All right, Minister. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the information you gave us. There are three issues I want to raise after your reply. Firstly, that we are ready, so you are ready, to declare the project of extension to Ermionida, a total budget of EUR 48 million. I would therefore ask you to tell us when the government intends to proceed with the proclamation of this project. Secondly, because the Services have indeed said that there is a question of expropriation, I would like to ask you by your personal intervention, because you have visited Argolida and you have a picture of this project, and you have a view of it, after two years of delays in expropriation, to finally promote this issue. For example, it is incomprehensible to have 4 million available and not absorbed them, because it is precisely because expropriations do not go any further. The third point - and I would very much like to have your answer on this - concerns the new EUR 7.8 million extension to Mycenas - Fichtia, which has not yet been published and which we have been in good order since November 2014. This work, when do you intend to proclaim it, so that it really is this huge development effort that the Argolida rural world needs to take flesh and bones and in a reasonable period of one to two years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u100	It is very important that the focus on irrigation-related projects is very important and that all of us, both at government and at parties level, but also at regional and local government levels, understand the importance of climate change and its priority in the projects relating to water and irrigation. It is very important - and we are talking about it with the mayors and the district managers who are coming - to understand the proper management. That is why, Mr Maniatis, I would like to make an introductory reference to the attempt made by the TEC Hera in Argolida. Usually, in the country there is a negative picture of the work done by TWGs. There are bright exceptions. The brightest I think is TWO Hera on the island of Argolida, which, in synergies with universities and researchers, has made the best use of existing water resources, with a project that has features of new technologies and innovation. It's a model. And from this step and we congratulate him and we are committed to supporting his efforts together with the local actors. So I continue with the answer, saying that I did not refer to issues 4, 5 and 6 of your timely question. The fourth issue concerns the upgrading of the pumping station in the Anavalos dam, a project that has been completed. There's been a temporary receipt. Administrative acceptance has been carried out for use. No definitive acceptance has been made, because the maintenance time and the procedural procedures they need have not elapsed. So a front is closed. There's still formality. The fifth to which you referred is the extension of the network to Fichtia, Monastery and Mycenes. That's a matter of periphery. The region has approved the study as well as the tendering procedures. No auction, though. It's unsolved. We're mature here, too. Finally, there's the thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u101	So it's going to go ahead, Minister? Are we going to publish this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u102	That's mature. But it's at regional level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u103	For the money of "Baltaji" I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u104	It doesn't matter. Finally, we have the transport and distribution of irrigation water at the Municipality of Asclepius and Hermionida. It's two plays. The first one has been auctioned. The Management Office notes that it can be implemented in accordance with the terms and conditions of the new programme. The construction time is twenty-four months from the date of signature of the contract. There is a relative maturity. The study has been approved for the work to Ermionidas. And we're on it, too, mature. The auction's coming up. We therefore have a positive picture of the progress of projects. Someone's in complete. Of course, it really needs pressure, as you mentioned in your dentext, to complete the pending legal procedures for expropriations, so that we can use the additional EUR 4 million that is there. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our first question under number 360/11-1-2016.Mr. Carditsa's Second-cycle Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the Centre for Animal Genetic Improvement in the Cardits Prefecture. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Bolaris. Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Karditsas and Thessaly in general there is significant livestock activity and production that contributes decisively to the primary sector of the economy. For the support of livestock production and livestock farmers of Thessaly, Fthiotida and Evritania, the Centre for Genetic Improvement of Animals, which is supervised by the Department of Decentralised Services of Thessaly and Central Greece of the YPAAT, operates in Karditsa. Its responsibilities are to monitor and monitor genetic improvement programmes for agricultural animals and for the conservation and dissemination of rare breeds. This centre is responsible for scientific work and contributes to the improvement and development of livestock production, is housed in new modern building facilities belonging to your Ministry and consists of commander, workshops, stables and warehouses. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Milk data analysis laboratories and ram progenitor facilities, including the laboratory for the evaluation, management and conservation of semen and paternity of animals, have not yet operated due to the lack of qualified staff and similar credits. The Carditsa Animal Genetic Improvement Centre, which is in your responsibility, is underfunded and subordinated. This structure could contribute to the development of livestock holdings, both in its area of responsibility and throughout the country. However, its poor functioning does not allow it to serve, at the level that it should and can, the production process and the farmers. Minister, at this point I would like to ask you, and I would like to know - as our farmers would like - what measures you intend to take to fund and serve this body and how you intend to integrate it into the national strategy for agri-food development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mrs Siloropoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, my fellow Member, for the question concerning the Animal Genetic Improvement Centre in Karditsa. There are a number of infrastructures in the country, five such centres, which were built, established to serve Greek livestock farming. You know - and you are experiencing it in Thessaly, Karditsa - and Mr President-in-Office of the Council that there is a period - I am speaking for a number of years, not a little - that these centres with research and scientific characteristics, which are vital tools to support livestock farming, have been degraded. This deterioration, however, has adverse effects on the productive sector and on Greek livestock farming. If, therefore, we want Greece to move forward, to move out and face up to economic issues, we should focus on production. A particularly critical sector is the primary sector and livestock farming. Our production needs to be of quality. Our production must be certified. Our production must have and incorporate innovation and exploit the comparative advantages. Here, then, is the role of the Centre for Genetic Improvement of Animals and Karditsa and the others that exist in the country. Because the comparative advantages for livestock come out of the work to be done in these genetic improvement centres, which are particularly concerned with rare indigenous tribes, the Greeks. This is the great comparative advantage. We refer too many times to the struggle that is taking place in the country to save Greek cheeses, to save the feta. However, we must do the feta with Greek tribes, to maintain the comparative advantage and to be proud on the international market for our feta. It has been held at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food twice a meeting to exploit these comparative advantages. A meeting has been held, which also took place by the Ministry's Services, as well as "ELGO - DIMITRA", with ETHIAGE, which has specialized researchers and scholars in the field of genetic improvement of livestock animals. One of these comparative advantages for the Ministry, one of these tools that the Ministry has is the Animal Genetic Improvement Centre in Karditsa. Mr President, I shall continue in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. Mrs Siloropoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u110	Minister, despite the shortcomings in staff and its under-funding, the work that the Centre for the Genetic Improvement of Carditsa Animals has to show for 2015 is important. At a time of financial difficulty in supporting our country's livestock farming, which is an important sector in the primary sector, we should not only continue, but also seek immediate actions that will help the farmer more effectively. The time-consuming problems of the industry can be tackled by formulating a new policy at all levels, only to clarify what we want and how to achieve it. Genetic improvement of animals is an essential factor in increasing the productivity of agricultural animals. The implementation of programmes geared to modern farming conditions and market requirements is an essential factor in increasing the productivity of agricultural animals. However, it is time to adapt the genetic improvement programmes for domestic breeds of ovine and caprine animals and not jeopardise the production of our local products of designation of origin and, in particular, the exclusive production of feta, as you said, which is now the most important product in our country in the international competitiveness of agricultural products. This body has high-cost DNA sequence analyst, which is unique throughout Greece and is not exploited, Minister, due to the lack of a biotechnologist. The accuracy of the choice of breeding animals, the breeds - which are controlled - with high yields of milk are excellent nuclei for further improvement, so that, after successive generations, clean offspring arise. I'm using some specialty terms because I think they're necessary. The application of the artificial insemination which may be carried out by the fully equipped laboratory of the centre, the possibility of creating planned couplings for the production of high standards animals, the abstract control post and the artificial insemination laboratory already in place in the centre, is an ideal case for the application of the genetic improvement method. At the same time, the creation of a genetic material bank for all endangered indigenous breeds of agricultural animals should also be launched. We urgently need, Minister, to operate the lab. Here too, the intake of sperm is required, which at this stage may also meet the needs of the stack. The implementation and implementation costs of the above, as always in relation to the final result, which is to increase milk production and the consolidation of domestic breeds of ovine and caprine animals, cannot be an inhibiting factor in its implementation. Minister, I am aware of the undivided interest, sensitivity and efforts made by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the rural development of our country. I hope with your decisions that the Centre for Genetic Improvement of Animals, not only in Carditsa, but all five centres, as you said, will be upgraded to make this a useful and effective tool for livestock farming, livestock farmers and Greek consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Siropoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u112	My colleague, I would like to point out that the country at the time it entered the crisis, in 2008-2009, had completed the disbursement of three Community Support Frameworks. It was about billions of dollars. In the years between 2008 and 2008, the NSRF has also been disbursed. It would be very easy to speak from the Minister's governmental step to say that the centre was part of Action 3.4 of the U.S.A., which concerns maintaining genetic resources in livestock farming. I would make a repetition of what has been said all these years, that we have focused on the absorption of European funds. What's the result? Yeah, we've been absorbing what we did, we sent back money, what we sent, but the thing is, we've taken up the money to implement some programs without, however, the money being targeted at where the country's productive tissue is needed. Why am I saying that? Because one is the major issue of the country with which the crisis has been approached, the fact that the productive sector has collapsed. So when there is confusion in the objectives in relation to the country's production base, then these tools, such as the Centre for Animal Enhancement in Thessaly, are downgraded. I told you orally in another debate that the relevant Directorate-General of the Ministry, the relevant departments and research institutes under the Ministry have been invited to focus on the use of the comparative advantages that the country has. Within these comparative advantages are indigenous breeds, they are rare breeds, not only in ovine and caprine animals, but also in cattle and pigs. There are people in Thessaly who are involved in the preservation of indigenous tribes and enjoy the fruits of this work. But it's individual cases. We want these cases with the support of research centres and scientific centres to make them a norm. That is why the proposal is based on the objectives and by drawing up the project with political will to insist on using the tools where we have the comparative advantages and therefore to multiply the profit generated in the country, to support both the local economy and the farmers who are trying and the national economy, our income. From the part, from the example you brought from the Centre for Animal Genetic Improvement, we come to the general point of view, and that is the challenge for both the Government and the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. The fifth will be discussed under No 353/7-1-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Potamian MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the use of European youth unemployment programmes. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Urania Antonopoulou. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, for the first time many years and a good year! Our country, according to the latest figures from the OECD annual report, is taking on sad priority with Spain in youth unemployment. In particular, at the ages of 15 to 24, unemployment in Greece and Spain is 52.4% and 53.2% respectively. The region, in which I am elected, Achaia, also holds record rates in youth, as well as in unemployment as a whole, more than 25%. A total of 25.4% of unemployment is projected for our country, according to government figures, for 2016 at 25.4% from 25.4% in 2015. The question of dealing with youth unemployment is obviously a huge one and it concerns a number of factors, which need to be implemented to deal with such as investment and taxation. However, I would like to focus on the issue of absorbing relevant funds from the European Union with the 'Youth Guarantee' programme for the recovery of number one, together with the insurance problem in the country. We know that on this issue the European Commission has already implemented a concrete recommendation in April 2013 on the implementation of the 'Youth Guard for Youth' programmes. The programmes provided for a series of emergency and immediate measures, giving some two hundred thousand young people between 15 and 24 years old the opportunity to receive a good quality proposal for employment, vocational training, apprenticeship or practical training within a period of four months from the date on which they leave formal education or from the time they remain without work. At the same time, they highlight apprenticeship as one of the key tools for a stable and structural improvement in the integration mechanisms of young people into employment. Financing comes from Community resources and will amount to EUR 171,5 million for 2014 to 2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Since the adoption of this recommendation, in April 2013, youth unemployment in the European Union has fallen by one million people, i.e. from 23.8% to 20.4% in July 2015, according to the response given by the committee to a relevant question by the MEP of SYRIZA, Mr Kouloglou, in October 2015. In our country, however, the programme began late in August 2014 and, it seems, until now, the relevant funds have not been fully used, judging by the continued high rates of unemployment. I would first like to ask, because the issue concerns thousands of young people seeking employment opportunities in our country, how many programmes have been implemented by the relevant programme in our country since January 2015, which you entered into as a government, and why the relative rate of unemployment has not been reduced as has happened throughout the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Fotella, I'm very pleased about your question. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to present some information once again, which is very important for us all to know. Firstly, although we are not celebrating as a government, what we have seen in the last 12 months is a reduction rather than an increase in unemployment, despite the many unfavourable comments we hear from the opposition parties, which we read in the media, we are listening to the television broadcasts from various experts who analyse. So let me come back and say that unemployment in January 2015 was at 25.9% and in January 2016 we are at 24.5%. It has fallen, that is, almost 1.5%. Also, the "ERGANI" tells us with the latest data - the results came out just two days ago - that in 2015 a net hundred thousand jobs were created, which corresponds to 2014. It's about ninety thousand, seven hundred jobs, as in 2014. So despite the appalling pressure our economy has suffered, despite the capital controls, the private sector has resisted and created jobs. Let me come to your question now. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] You will give me some more time, Mr President. As regards the unemployment rates of the young 15 to twenty-four years, the rate has fallen to 48.6%. For the ages of twenty-five to twenty-nine, where the rate was indeed this very high percentage you gave, it is down to 34.3%. So we've seen an improvement. In absolute figures, we are no longer in the two hundred forty-five thousand, but in the seventy-nine thousand for the youngest to twenty-four years and about eighteen thousand for the other age group. Now let me tell you where we are in the 'Youth Guarantee'. As you rightly said, we have 171.5 million of this programme. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing on several occasions by Mrs. Deputy Minister.]] You'll give me two more minutes so I can finish. We also have 171.5 of the European Social Fund. So we have this koruna that arrives, along with some other little money that is available, at 393 million. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Let me briefly say that we have already started in 2015 with a programming of about sixty thousand young people and programming for projects starting in January, February, March and April, is almost 100% of the funds. In other words, we have only 10 million who are missing from them, which the country has available, to carry out support programmes for specialized training and guaranteed employment for our young people. So, where our country is today, we can say that we are very high in absorption because, as I said, the implementation of these programmes begins in the next three or four months and some have already been announced. I have prepared a list of all the actions and dates which I will present for the briefing of this House. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Urania Antonopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Senography and Practices.]] Let me conclude by saying that the problem of young people and all the unemployed will be able to normalise, when we have a stable political environment, when investments in the private sector can return and when we have the resources, so that we can also have as many recruitments in the public sector as we need, so that we can serve the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and three teachers attending the 4th Chalkida Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that the House today is incomplete, because the honourable Member's questions are answered. That is why there are not many Members on the table. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. I am aware of most of what you have answered. I have in my hands an answer you have given to a relevant question from SYRIZA Members in December 2015. I would just like to ask if you can tell us more specifically the percentage that they will contribute to addressing the problem, because the figures continue to be alarming. I am saying this because I know that in this programme for our country there are structural problems which have to do with the huge number of potential beneficiaries, with the low demand for employment, with inefficient public administration, the fact that this programme only refers to the ages of eighteen or twenty-four, while in our country the biggest problem is in ages between twenty-four and twenty-nine. In this respect, because in our country structurally it is a more difficult issue for this programme, I would like to ask whether you have thought about it. We could suggest to you this: The first step is to support existing businesses by providing counselling and guidance services, in cooperation with employers' organisations and chambers, and to help companies to reduce their weaknesses and to make selective moves to strengthen their activity on the world market. Also, one option, a solution is equivalent to that of 'ERASMUS' in the field of education. In particular, participation in the 'Youth Guarantee' of undertakings abroad could be chosen, with priority for them in Greek interests and for a period equivalent to that for enterprises operating in Greece, in order to absorb young people, whether in jobs or in training or apprenticeship positions. Finally, given that the main arm for the implementation of the initiative, according to the Greek Action Pact, is the OAED, it falls the greatest burden, particularly in the renewed employment promotion centres. That is why I would suggest that he moves into a central body planning, implementing and controlling, correcting, reporting on the results of his actions under the 'Youth Guarantee' programme. What I would like to ask, by closing, is this: Is there any guarantee or, anyway, what is your thought about whether the young people who will be employed in this programme will then continue on a permanent basis or simply return home? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u119	Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u120	Your first question was about the absorption of resources. So let's start by saying that, yes, resources are being absorbed. The question is whether we are using these resources efficiently, that is to say, if the money is to be made available. This allows us, beyond the training programmes - which are specifically for young people, followed by certification of their qualifications - to be specialized and to step on the real needs of the labour market today. It is followed by a guaranteed employment, but you are quite reasonable to ask what is going on from there. From that point on, it must be understood to all of us that, in today's conditions that we still have more than a million people unemployed, the solution will only be found when we enter a real development orbit. However, in preparing young people for integration into the labour market, there are specific programmes that support them in terms of participation in startups, namely entrepreneurship. There are specific programmes from what we are talking about, which are intensified by the first practical exercise followed by six to ten months of actual employment in one company, with the obligation of the company to keep them for another three or six months. So what we aspire is, firstly, to give a first chance of employment, a first chance to join, but it is understandable that it is a short-term horizon. As I said before, the real integration of people, young and non-new, is a result of the general course of our economy. As far as the incentives we give companies to recruit young people are concerned, they exist. It is wage and non-wage support for specific ages. I must say, of course, that this concerns not only young people up to twenty-four or twenty-five years old but also the other age group up to nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the sixth Question No 357/8-1-2016 on the second time question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, on the need to harmonise all banking institutions as well as private sales companies POS with European legislation, with regard to sales prices and a charge for traders when imposing the commission. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes for your first placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you know her the timely question. In short, I will develop it orally. Most of the healthy businesses in Greece because of the capital controls have provided POS. Pursuant to Regulation 751/2015, the maximum transaction charge by POS must be 0,3%. However, according to a study in this regard, it has been shown that the bank's debit in each transaction may be up to 3%. That is the first part of the question. The second point, which I would like to say, is that many companies, due to a failure to regulate their debts and due to a public debt, cannot obtain the so-called POS. The question is what you intend to do, because this is where the banking institution is unfairly enriching to the detriment of the traders, and if it is your intention to resolve the question of the inability of businesses to have the POS, which will bring revenue to the Greek state, but which also fight tax evasion, as you have quite rightly said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u123	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Kokalis, with your question you raise a very serious issue, which concerns the Greek society, but has also dealt with the House in other positions and I will reply to you in a documented and concise manner. We would like to ask this question, before entering the details, to make a general remark. The Treasury is in front of large designs. We have already prepared provisions and a series of interventions to extend digital electronic transactions to all forms of transaction and strengthen through this process of fight against tax evasion, smuggling and corruption. If there is a delay in these things - and we often also have an unfair criticism of this delay - it is because, unfortunately, all the good things you said about the directive do not apply to the real market. At the moment, i.e. there are very high charges for the POS market, there are very high prices for supplies, for the maintenance of the system, as there are very large commissions for each transaction. The aim of the Ministry of Finance is to increase public revenue through this process and not to increase profits of some. Clearly, then, we say that in this fight and in full cooperation, the Ministry of Finance together with the banking institutions should help all together to change attitudes and enable this process to function. I repeat that if this process is an opportunity for some to increase their profits, then it will not work. The Treasury can't stand a spectator in this story. We have already had a meeting with the Bank of Greece and Mr Stournaras has agreed with us in a series of actions that we will take in this area. We will also hold a meeting with the Greek Banking Union and the banks. We'll do everything possible to achieve it. Now, with regard to the issues of your question, I would like to tell you that because we wanted to be precise about what we are going to answer, we were in time for the Greek Banking Association, so that we could have full information and submit it to the House. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case in their reply. We will submit to the Minutes of the House both our document and our reply document in order to have a full picture of this issue. From our research on the Internet - because we did not have this information from the Greek Banking Union - we have seen that, unfortunately, these very good things you say in your question of maximum charge, etc. do not apply. And the strange thing is, while you go into the bank pages and see what the purchase price is or the monthly rental and maintenance cost, we didn't find on the internet what the commission on transactions is. From the complaints we have in the Ministry of Finance, this commission is related to the customer's profile. In other words, otherwise the debate begins and after negotiation ends elsewhere, and, as you quite rightly say, we must have stable supplies, which are not more than 0.3%. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Madam President, I will take very little time, so that I can be consistent in the answer. From our research on four large banks on the Internet, we have seen, for example, that the National Bank has a fixed mechanism from 159 to 182 and portable from 329 to 429. I cannot imagine plumber and electrician, who will need to have portable, going to give so much money to be able to cover the tax or other legislation. The Piraeus Bank has 357 mobile phones from 156 to 226. Alpha Bank has for stable 157 and portable of approximately 263. On the Eurobank website we were unable to find evidence. I don't want to blame any bank. Today, and since the Greek Banking Union has not given us the information - it has told us that it is not competent - we will send a letter to the banks and any response we have from each of the banks, we will also inform you, because there must be a full picture of this issue. So, as far as this issue is concerned, they should all reduce their supplies - which are now too large - for the purchase of machinery, for monthly maintenance and for the supply of any transaction. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, the Ministry of Finance will submit a provision in the next few days whereby, as far as debts are concerned, a single account - a single account! - per undertaking will have an unreasonable amount of money input via the POS or the electronic transaction and imputable to that account as an exit for purchases by credit card or e-commerce for the needs of the company. This will enable everyone to obtain these machines and the market to function. Such a move we expect to be made on the side of the banks, and I believe that the cooperation that has begun will be successful. We all have to understand that if we expand banking electronics, it will be for the benefit of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u125	Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u126	Minister, the banks are corporations. They have such a legal regime that the state cannot interfere with their mode of operation and their mode of action. If we wait for the Hellenic Banking Association to tell us the facts, we are burned! They're doing their job. Banks want profits. Because the relevant investigation is from the Chamber of Commerce. What's my proposal? To work with traders, and if, indeed, the investigation is true, and since we cannot, as a state, intervene legally, tax the banks, if they charge up to 2% and 3%, Minister. Here's an equivalent! To tax the banks, because it is a profit and unfair and illegal and unjust. I understand the legal argument that the state cannot intervene in the Greek Banking Union. However, since these illegal charges exist, these banks' profits will be taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Alexiadis, you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u128	Mr Papoutsis, it is clear that the Treasury in its fight for tax evasion, smuggling and corruption, to deal with these phenomena, will cooperate not only with traders, bankers but also with anyone else. Only the devil won't cooperate! We will do everything possible - and we prove this every day - to cooperate with anyone, to have that information, support, cooperation, to create that social and political front, so that we can have results. And we already have results. I tell you here, because you will not hear it in the eight or in some other media headed. We already have results: In 2013-2014 - in 2014, at the time of the success story - tax revenues were 1.5 billion less. In 2014-2015, tax revenues are not only reduced by 1.5 billion, but also have a positive figure and are plus 39 million. This, of course, is what I am telling you here, because you will not be informed by certain media that bring disasters, for example, with traffic charges, which you remember what was heard in this Chamber and what was written in a printed and electronic press, when we brought the order, about what would happen. And now no one says that we have 8 million more revenues, we have a fair burden-sharing - as little as we can - from the traffic charges and we have 100 000 cars more than 2014 to run. As far as this issue is concerned, then, it is very clear that we will cooperate with anyone, to increase public revenue and extend electronic transactions. The state, the state, has too many tools. And here they must decide who do not want to cooperate: or they will cooperate, to have common results, or to implement legislation and the Constitution. There is no way the Treasury will give a fight to increase public revenue and some, through this race, try to increase their profits. We want cooperation, yes, but also to the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on topical and urgent questions has been closed. It will be followed by legislative work. We are interrupting for ten minutes to start with legislative work, as has been known on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and three teachers from the 3rd High School of Ilio. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u131	We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Reform of a revised European Social Charter'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, only those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. So does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u132	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u134	Good. I have no objections. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. The preamble to this bill underlines the will of the governments of the Member States of the Council of Europe to ensure for their people the social rights provided for in the Charter in order to improve their social level and promote their social prosperity. Ironically, which is hypocrisy and how oxime it sounds today when living in a country where all these rights have been circumvented by the rulers, when they have been circumvented, in essence, an institution. In making a very rapid account, it is enough to note that in the last five years this policy of the European Union, the European Bank and the International Monetary Fund with the governments that served, has led society to a disaster. Unemployment, much of the productive tissue and tens of thousands of businesses at God’s mercy, hundreds of thousands of young people were driven to immigration and exploitation. So what map? What employment rights? Do we in South Europe, and especially the Greeks, have the same rights as the Europe of the North, as the workers of the Nordic countries? The standard of living of our people is within the limits of misery, tolerance. Wages, pensions, social benefits disappeared, education and health were brutally beaten. What the neoliberal governments did not dare to do was the so-called 'left', to confirm once again the theory that these measures go through more easily the so-called'socialist', 'left', 'progressive' forces, because they better absorb social vibrations and have that verbal wrapping, 'packet' to serve it, after having loaded it with cheap excuses to exogenous factors, saying that it has the responsibility of anyone other than them. The faithful applications of the memorandum from 2010 until today have committed massive violations of fundamental and human rights, as they are recorded in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, but which have not been recognised or attributed. On the one hand, the government gives its hand to human rights offenders, making new agreements, and on the other it blames them as inhumane. In September 2014, however, the Greeks learned, although suicide, although they faint from hunger, although they have lost any right to work and dignity, that the European Union and the United Nations do not intervene. In an entirely cynical statement - a reply, then Commissioner Kainen said that in the countries of the memorandum they do not have democratic and social rights, because the memorandum is not a Union document, so the Charter that we are voting on today does not apply to us Greeks. In the same context, let us not forget that it was Moscovisi's answer that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is not applicable in Greece, and he does not answer exactly how the Commission is legalised, taking part in the troika, to suggest adverse interference in areas that are explicitly excluded from Union law. This reveals the status of limited to zero-enforcement of national law, national independence. In fact, Europeans do not see any violation of rights in a country which has been violently impoverished in recent years, with a large proportion of its population impoverished. Has Greece become a arena in which thousands of suicides have been committed due to economic difficulties, a real genocide and have the courage to say that no Greek citizen's right has been violated? The Commission must respond to us if the European framework for labour rights - which it promises - applies to Greece as well or holds the double language that it has had in previous years and calls for Greece to be excluded from the framework because of the memorandum. We, as a nationalist movement, have to say that we do not accept the resolution, because we believe it is a mockery, a mockery and that today the Greek worker does not have the rights mentioned in this Charter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Mr. Katsotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President, although the five-minute period is not enough to develop its positions on what the government today brings, namely the ratification of the revised Charter of Social Rights - the so-called - decided by the European Council. The recognition and protection of the rights referred to in this Charter shall be of a declaratory nature only. They are a wish, without a practical objection to the people, since all the governments of the Member States of the European Union, as well as the SYRIZA - ANEL, are deciding and implementing policies that literally break the whole of the working people's rights. The revision of the European Social Charter on many points harmonises and reflects the European Union's modern anti-popular strategy. It is the competitiveness strategy, in which everything is being subordinated, a strategy which is completely in contradiction with the basic rights of workers, a strategy which was planned by the Maastricht Treaty and, more specifically, by 1993 with the White Paper, which concerned all the countries of the European Union. Wasn't the implementation of this strategy accompanied by measures which have led to major overturns in labour relations, wages, collective agreements, pensions, social benefits and other divisions of the working class? These are the so-called capitalist restructurings, the anti-government reforms that are being carried out systematically and with a single Euro-Union plan. The Single Strategy promotes a single policy for drastic reduction of wages and wages in a number of measures aimed at abolishing collective labour agreements and promoting forms of alternative and part-time employment in various forms. What haven't we lived for? A fixed-term job? Part-time? Temporary employment? Individual contracts? Mini jobs? Contracts on time? Zero-hour contracts? Are the best practices applied in the European Union? Are they the ones that constitute the social charter? Abolition of fixed daily working time, permanentity at work in the public and some more stable in the private sector, general changes in working relations, such as the adjustment of working time, active and inactive working time, the Serkas Directive, the abolition of overtime, the release of redundancies, the liberalisation of services in the single market by the Bulkestein Directive in 2006, the Working Time Directive, the Green Paper on the modernisation of labour law in the 21st century? Policies that are part of the strategy of liberalising the labour market over time and adapting wages and wages to the very low levels on the international capitalist market. Single policy on the reduction of social benefits and, above all, on social security schemes - pensions, health, welfare - extending the privatisation of professional funds. It is precisely this direction that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's draft law, which, with the struggle for the working class of the people, must not go to the insurance parliament. A lot could be said, but time is short and I will go to that. Nevertheless, we want to note that the Government declares that it is not bound by the provisions of Article 6 on the introduction and use of arbitration mechanisms to regulate labour disputes, in particular on the right to unilateral access to arbitration in the event of failure of collective bargaining. It is an unacceptable option, which also confirms the persistence of the SYRIZA in the anti-government arsenal of the previous governments, which banned unilateral recourse to arbitration when negotiations fail. With regard to the regulation of Article 6 in relation to the regulation of the right of employers to collective action, in particular with regard to the prohibition of compensation, Minister, we stressed it in committee and demanded that the government interpret this point on what it does not want to commit: for the ban or for the possibility of imposing compensation on employers? It also does not validate, invoking the same reasons, the provision of Article 19(12) of the revised Charter concerning the obligation of States to promote and facilitate, to the extent possible, the teaching of the mother tongue of the migrant worker in its children, even though the obligation in question is essentially contained only as a loose declaration in the revised Charter. However, what does non-judgment indicate? It shows an anti-immigration concept. The Charter adopts the logic of a minimum protection of social rights, which, in relation to labour rights, must - it says - be tolerated by employers. Restrictions and exceptions are being introduced, but, Minister, and recognition and legitimacy of anti-competitive arrangements, but also of so-called employers' rights. These are regulations at the workplace, which are behind international labour contracts, at national and national level, but also at labour conquests. To mention, for example, the right to fair working conditions. What's he saying here? There is talk in general and indefinitely for a reasonable daily and weekly time to eliminate risks - it says - to dangerous or unhealthy occupations, through the reduction of working hours or the granting of additional leave with wages, to ensure night work, taking into account the particular nature of night work. What is the fixed daily time? I mean, he's done. It's behind what we've got so far. In Articles 3: 'The right to safety and hygiene at work' and Article 22: 'The right to participate in the definition and improvement of working conditions and the working environment'. The European Union's strategic framework 2014-2020, like the previous one on health and safety, has as a criterion addressing occupational risk ensuring business competitiveness. The policy of strengthening the profitability and competitiveness of enterprises is a key axis of the European Union's decisions and treaties, such as the Lisbon Strategy, Europe 2020. From this point of view, the wording of Articles 3 and 22, Minister, on health and safety, is 'good', since the criterion of decisions and measures is a comparison of the cost of prevention and of occupational risk management at company level. At State level, the treatment of occupational risk is subject to the criterion of ensuring the profitability of capital. So there is no protection for the worker. Above all, competitiveness and profitability are. And because a lot can be said about them, but also many other important reasons that we have said to the committee - and we want to testify for our entire analysis of the Charter that you have brought us here - we will not vote and try, of course, through the movement, to have all our strengths, to have the working class, the workers as a whole, the popular strata, genuine social rights in another form of organization of the economy, with other power, with the people themselves in power, and he will do the same to the means of production, which will lead the people to genuine social rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u138	Madam Minister, Mrs. Fotio, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u139	Yes, Madam President, for two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u140	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u141	First of all, thank you for your remarks. I would like to make a clarification from the outset, because I think the representatives of both parties are confusing. This Charter, which we are today dominating, is not a text of the European Union. We are mistaken, that is, the Council of Europe with the institutions of the European Union. Article 1. Let us make it clear that there are two different legal texts: the 'Revised European Social Charter of the Council of Europe' and the 'The Fundamental Charter of the European Union'. It's different. Therefore, compliance or non-compliance with it is not done by European Union institutions but by the Council of Europe. So we in this political context are interested in this sanction and why? We are very interested, as six previous cases have shown, which have come to the Committee on Social Rights of the European Social Charter in a text less protective than that here, because that is more protective. At that time, this committee took the view in all six cases that the first memorandum - because it concerned it - was contrary to European law, contrary to the European Social Charter. Is that a weapon in our hands today? It is. He's in the international power association. It is within globalism, where the role of Greece is played, where the situation of Greece is played, and you know that we need alliances in this situation. So what we have heard, at least since the Golden Dawn, is not true. Secondly, it is no coincidence that twenty years now this Charter is not ratified. Why 20 years isn't it validated? There is no 25 years of ratification, Madam President, because the Charter of Human Rights of 1961, which Mr Katsotis referred to, obviously the whole of Europe, but also the conflict of capital and work, creates conditions which are more unfavourable to workers and therefore avoids, here, in our country since 1996, while the whole story is evolving into political neoliberals than the current governments and do not ratify the Charter. That's no accident. The third point I would like to make is that in the remarks made by Mr Kattotis, which are reasonable, for Article 2, concerning the provisions of Article 6 of the Charter. Be careful: we do them without reservation. What does "without reservation" mean? It means that the legislation in force is in force. So, firstly, on the issue of regulating labour disputes, in particular on the right to unilateral access to arbitration in the event of the failure of collective bargaining, we call'reservation', so that is not the case. In other words, we can go to unilateral negotiations if the collective bargaining fails, because, as the Constitution says - Article 22 - and as the respective law has repeatedly said, which is currently in force, this cannot apply to the Greek area. We, in other words, still support unilateral negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u142	The law today doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u143	He's anticipating it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u144	You changed him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u145	It provides for it, and I can come back to it if you want. It is no accident, Mr Kattotis, that the very fact that we are doing this regulation with a reservation is opposed to BSE. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] One more minute, Madam President. And you are aware of the BSE communication which categorically disagrees with the reservation that we are voting on this article, because it is precisely because it does not want the unilateral negotiation to come into force. Secondly, in the same article, the provisions do not bind Greece in regulating employers' rights in so-called collective action, namely employers' compensation, in the lockout to get to know each other. This is how we raise the issue of reservation. In other words, Greek law on this subject is recognised higher and therefore, as the report makes clear, the employers of the lockout are not allowed to exercise this right. It is clear and we do not want to create any other misunderstandings. Finally, I shall refer to Article 3. In Articles 3(4) and 19(12), we are talking about a working doctor. This is what we have in Greek legislation - and in particular situations - in businesses of over 50 people or - according to what is provided for in the law - increased working risk. It is not easy for us to do it in all businesses, even five people or ten people. That's our difference. We have no other difference. I think, Madam President, that in the time given to me, I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'Reformed European Social Charter'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u149	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Revised European Social Charter' was accepted by a majority in only one debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u150	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u151	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: 1. The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Economics, Development and Tourism, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction submitted a draft law on 14-1-2016: "Furtherance of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Maritime Transport". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Foreign and Finance, submitted a draft law on 14-1-2016: ‘Principle of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-14-S1-commons.u152	With the consent of the House at 12.31 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, January 15, 2016, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 2/2/25-11-2015 to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
