ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative agenda, I would like to make a statement to you under Rule 63 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. By Protocol No 10330/6926/19-7-2016, the President of the Parliament decided to set up and set up a ‘Special Committee of the Greek Parliament on the content and procedures for the conclusion of transatlantic trade agreements’. The committee shall be governed by Rules 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part II) and 98 of the Rules of Procedure (Part II). The committee's purpose is to investigate the content and procedures of the transatlantic trade agreements between the EU, Canada and the United States, to promote transparency in trade negotiations, to examine the possibilities of participation by Parliament and, through it, the Civil Society and the social partners in them, to seek cooperation with any relevant committees of the EU Member States, to formulate proposals to the Government, in an advisory capacity. To achieve this, the Committee will be in constant cooperation and contact with the Special Permanent Committee for European Affairs and, through it, with the Greek MEPs. It will also work with representatives of the Civil Society, who have expressed particular interest in transatlantic trade agreements. This decision will be posted to Parliament's Transparency and recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr. Efstathos (Stathias) Panagoulis seeks permission from a few days' absence from 22 July to 26 July 2016 abroad. Also, MP Mr. Theodoros Karaoglou seeks permission from a short-day absence for family reasons abroad from 26 July to 30 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Reasonable representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs". It is proposed that the bill should be discussed in three meetings as follows: On Tuesday, today, 19 July 2016, it was to go by 24: 00, but, due to the late arrival of the Minister, I suggest we go by 24: 30, because we lost half an hour. Wednesday 20th of July from 17: 00 to 24: 30. On Thursday, 21 July, the meeting will start at 17:30. The Presidents of the parties will be placed in this sitting, and then we will proceed to the vote. I propose that the draft law should become uniform in principle, on articles and on amendments. I suggest that your speaking times be as follows: The time of the rapporteurs and special speakers should be 15 minutes and about three minutes for the second. Parliamentary representatives, as a result of the inauguration of the debate in principle and of the articles, should be given a 15-minute increase and the speakers' time should be seven minutes as a whole. There will be an electronic record when the first and second rapporteurs are spoken. Depending on the number of Members registered - we are not taking a decision now, but we are making a proposal to you as Bureau - that is, if the number is large, tomorrow's sitting will be possible instead of starting at 17.00, as I said, at 15.00 or 13.00 at noon, so that we can get the whole list of Members registered to speak. I would also like to make a position, because I have to do it as a Bureau, and say that, as far as the days are concerned, there is a difference in what we decided unanimously at the Conference of Presidents. This was done not at the initiative of the President but at the Government's recommendation adopted by the President. However, by summing up the speaking time I have told you, you will allow me to say that it is not on the hands, it is on the best, since speaking time has increased greatly and will in particular facilitate the Members who will be enrolled to speak. Perhaps a brief conference should be held in the morning to ratify this thing either unanimously or by a majority. However, if there is a ratification issue, Parliament will ratify it. The rest is as we have decided, and therefore no one needs to be placed on it or I will come back. Now, on this subject, because I see you raising hands and asking to take the floor, you will speak in turn. From the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, would the Parliamentary Representative like to place himself on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u5	Later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u6	In the end, you. Mr Nindias, you have the floor for two minutes to talk about the procedure alone, namely changing the days in which the debate was held, because the rest remained the same or are better. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, the formal issue is the change in the decision taken by the Conference of Presidents without the Conference of Presidents meeting again. But the essential issue is different and it is not the first time that the National Representation has dealt with it. It is the adaptation of the programme and the substance of the work of the National Representation to the programme concerned, as understood by the Prime Minister and the Government. Not only is this not correct, not only does it indicate a perception of the national Parliament, but it is, frankly, creating a broader conception which is not understandable to us at all. There could be fifteen different alternatives. None of them existed. In fact, the Government issued a judicial order on the part of the Government. These things, Mr President, are not at all serious. We have no objections, we do not mind. But we are absolutely burning government tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u8	I see Mr. Loverdo asking why. Mr Pafilis is asking for the floor. Mr. Famellos will be speaking at the end of the day. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I have listened carefully to your introduction and I have noted that you too have criticised the method, not the substance of the final procedure, as you have set it, but how we got to it. I would like to remind my fellow Members that everything contained in the Rules of Procedure or the decisions of the Conference, the institution of the Conference, is all that, but it is a repetitive substance, not a guy to follow a type because we like it. Since the beginning of this story with the electoral law, we have made a number of proposals to the government as a Democratic Incorporation. Is that the type, too, a dialogue? No, it's a substance, it's hiding a lot of substance in it. We have said, instead of being here today, that we should be a intergroup committee and we have made five proposals. Our proposal has been tacitly rejected. We are here today, after the procedure that has been followed, to discuss a electoral law which is suggested by a minister who disagrees with what is being proposed. In any case, we have explained and will say why it is being tabled. It's just a tactic. But, Mr President, please! Weren't we together at the conference where we were shared with us a piece of paper and were given Tuesday and Wednesday days? Well, the government has a reason. We haven't shown any tactics in years, we understand. However, cannot the President of Parliament inform the parliamentary representatives or the Secretaries of Parliamentary Groups or the other Members of the Bureau, so that we know exactly how things are? What is this House? The government's chimpanzee, so that the last minute he can tell you - after the journalists to whom the leak first arrived - that instead of that, the process is done differently? You, on a regular basis - because you belong to the Bureau - have made a criticism. We do not need, Mr President, to use any tactics. It is a constant practice that the government does not respect this House. We will respect it, however, and by taking the floor we will be working on its practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u10	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Pafilis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u12	On the substance, Mr President, we do not disagree. What's the problem, though? I think it's bad. There could be a communication with the parties' representatives. We don't have any objections, and I imagine no one has. I would like to say, however, about the hypocrisy that exists, that is to say, the type and the substance. What's the point? Does the government in question have a majority in the Conference of Presidents, yes or no? Yeah. So he decides what he wants. Now all this style, that the government is bypassing Parliament and so on, is, in our opinion, not using any serious expression - a little hypocrisy to the Greek people. When the government has a majority in the Conference of Presidents, it does what it wants objectively. What SYRIZA is doing today, they have continued your tradition, and the New Democracy and the PASOK, it's just that. It uses the majority that the Rules of Procedure may, in order to be able to change the agenda. We have no objection to the debate in three days, since it is more time to note that it is not possible - to say it is not possible - to do so without any information, even with one phone call that there is this thought and we need to change it, rather than hold a Conference of Presidents. I imagine everyone would agree with this proposal. That is why I say, so that we do not waste time, move forward and stop the little 'theatre'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u13	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Danellis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u15	I would like to say two words, Mr President. We obviously have no objections, but they are the same hours. However, the attitude which dictated this methodology is inconsistent, even directly contradicted, with the substance of the subject that is to be followed, that is, the building of mutual trust and the building of a culture of understanding. This will be discussed in a few moments. Let's think of this on the pact. No reason to make such matters another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u16	Since there are basically no disagreements and I don't have to make the lawyer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u17	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Pappa, I've said from the beginning who wants the floor. Okay, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u19	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. On the substance of the matter, and I would like to say that the introductory debate that has been started at the moment is about shade. We have no issue, because we are present in parliament. We are a barrage and we will be placed within an hour on the substance of the matter, which is the electoral law. Either in three meetings you do it, in four or five, we don't care. Our competitor, our rapporteur, Yiannis Lagos, will be presenting a response to the system's left and right legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Famelos has the floor to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is an important moment in the Greek Parliament, because we are responding to a request for many decades of democratic Greece, the democratic world. Obviously the proposal to allow this debate to take place over time and with the participation of many Members of Parliament, strengthens this democratic cut that the SYRIZA Government is starting in Greece today. That is why I would say that we should not start with these sadness, because we have despised Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, when the ministers and prime ministers were absent. Because we had a Prime Minister from the Greek Parliament the previous government period. The frequency of the Prime Minister's presence - because someone said that because of the Prime Minister it is changing the programme, it is not right - in the House it is dense and it is an honor for democracy and for our operation. That's what we're going to make, and it's our duty to make sure. It's not an advantage, it's our obligation. So we agree with the proposal that has been made, even with the use of the majority. We apologise for not being informed. We must proceed with the information of the parliamentary groups, with full democracy and with the participation of many Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u22	All right, I think we're done. To close, too, saying that the President of the House doesn't need an attorney. But since I have spoken with him several times today, as far as your tops for the government are concerned, I have no intention of alleviating them, but the President was not happy. On his own initiative, the time has increased so that we can at least speak as many colleagues as possible if we can cover them all. We will see, of course, at the end of Mr Voridis' speech, how many people will have signed, to see when we start tomorrow. Thank you very much for the cooperation, which we have not wasted time. We are starting with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Giolas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law the government recommends the proportional representation of the political parties, the extension of the right to vote, and other provisions relating to the election of Members of the Greek Parliament. The aim of the new regulations is for each political party to be represented in the national Parliament according to its real electoral power, by restoring the genuine representation of the people's will and thereby strengthening the quality of democracy, without favouring the largest parties towards the smaller ones. We are opting for the system of simple proportionality, not only because there has been a consistent and time-consuming demand from the Left, but because this draft law seeks to restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, have you realised that you are not listening to what the speaker says? Please, whoever wants to talk to his neighbor, let him go out. You're very welcome. Go on, Mr. Giola.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u25	The electoral system of the enhanced analogy, which has been implemented throughout the post-government period, sought to ensure that the governments concerned remain in power at all costs and resulted in the minority of the electorate becoming a parliamentary majority. After all, we remember the bonuses of the forty and fifty seats, which in the previous Bulgarians changed the election result, insulting the principle of equivalence of vote. Thus, there was an obvious mismatch between the electoral force of the parties and their parliamentary representation and a clear error of the citizens' vote. This system has been tried and failed, at least in the consciousness of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. The only way to restore the fair, equal, legal and democratic representation of the people in Parliament is simply proportional. In particular, we are adopting and proposing these provisions, because we believe that, in addition to the genuine representation that they seek, promote and become a government of cooperation, as is required by the current needs of dialogue, pluralism and the necessary compositions. In this essential and democratic way, government stability is being strengthened. How? With the co-formulation, control and real political initiatives, which will in addition ensure social cohesion and peace. We do not legislate with a view to micro-participatory purposes and benefits. It's obvious. That is why we have chosen to vote for the simple act of analogy in politically neutral time. Our political opponents, particularly the rapporteur and colleagues of the Civilian Representation, who have spoken in the committees' discussions, have taken the risk of intergovernmental or non-long-term government co-operation. However, your Chief, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, far outstripped all of you in a cresent, unfortunately, unfortunate dangers of erosion and destructiveness, sparking the climate with a divisive speech and saying in his recent statements that "The mere analogy runs counter to simple logic. It is important that we do not collect the two-vote votes. They play..." - meaning the parties of coexistence - "with the institutions to hold on to power". ‘Bobo on the foundations of democracy or simply proportional’. Let me accept the first statement as a horrific firework and the second one as an expression of his earnest desire. However, not that we play with the institutions too, Mr. Chief of Officerial Representation, nor that we abuse democracy. You and your resignation cannot complain to us, you with the assistance of the partner, the once-changing bipartisanism, who changed the electoral systems - seven, if I recall, of the post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mole-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mperial system, which would ensure your self-response in the next elections. We were accused of bringing early, early or opportune electoral bills. Really, what would you say if we introduced it a few months before the election, in your own tactics, as you used to do before, and everyone was talking about cooking? Now, where is it three years before the elections, are you talking about disorientation of the people from the critical issues? Eventually, when were the amendments to the electoral law to be introduced? Right before the election? Long before the election? Or even during the election campaign? Let us be serious, ladies and gentlemen. The existing electoral law, which manifestly altered the Greeks' vote, had to change. Ladies and gentlemen, without opportunism and in any case in time we are therefore proposing in a simple, but clearly democratic and just way the amendments that need to be made so that the best system can be implemented on an equal footing. Observations and micro-improvements, and of course, can be made in the process and with comfort of time, but they will accept the substance and core of the simple analogue system, which will not alter it, degenerate it and artificially turn it into the failed and undemocratic system of enhanced analogy. To get into the individual, excessive objections were recorded for the right to vote for young people over the age of 17. It was strongly rejected, mainly by the New Democracy, by the extension of the voting to the seventeen, with unfounded arguments and uncertain and mechanical justification. The need for young people to vote is, for most reasons, justified and necessary. We are talking about a shrinking electorate, which can clearly and must be strengthened and enriched. The extension of the electoral right to enlarge the electorate through the participation of more citizens in democratic procedures for the election of the state institutions is necessary and necessary. With what cross-cutting portion, then, should the electorate be increased and renewed, if not with young people? Let us remember the fall in the age limit from twenty-one years to eighteen years, which became about thirty-five years ago, how imposed, necessary and acceptable to society has been, I do not want to believe that those who wish to deprive our young people of their right to vote, who seek solutions for their future, would prefer to see our youth detestable and aged, perhaps confined to passive roles, or even turn to blind and antisocial individualism. Those who reverse the simple analogue system, claiming that the country needs stable governments, apparently meaning one-sided and self-powered governments with almighty prime ministers, seem to have forgotten that these stable governments have brought the economy down, the country's bankruptcy, the dissolution of the state, the memorial and suffocating comitology regime. In addition, some will claim kindly or somewhat naively that we do not have a culture and tradition of coalition governments. Indeed, the simple analogue requirement of this kind is from the responsible political parties: to co-exist and form cooperation governments. So our response to these objections is that these governments have had such governments since 2012 in our country, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, that result from the convergence of political forces, which was seven, eight years ago unlikely. The reality, however, came to overthrow established perceptions. So, basically, we are adopting, as the vastly large majority of Greek citizens seem to want - polling brings 58% of them - the simple analogue. Because they believe and believe that in addition to the genuine representation it ensures in the House, they promote and promote the composition and tend to governments of cooperation, because this requires the modern needs of pluralism, democracy and cohesion. In addition, simply proportionally releases these voters, citizens from extortionist dilemmas when they join the poll. It is also weakening by immortalities and pressures exerted on part of the citizens, who may have voted not in an authentic way but with negative reflexes. We remember very well the logic of the "lost vote" or that I vote for the alpha party so that beta and other such variations do not come to power. In this way their vote was coercive, if not manipulate their will. Once the simple analogue is voted, an inter-educational culture of decentralized and finally free vote is created. Thus, the voter is placed with his vote positively and unaffected, choosing the party that is closer to his point of view, based on his own political, ideological, philosophical and other positions. Thus, the people's will is strengthened, according to the Greeks' demand, as well as the many other peoples of Europe and the whole world for more and real democracy. Some colleagues have referred to the committees, bringing Italy as an example, saying sixty governments have been formed in equal years. The example is unsuccessful. It concerns other periods and a different country, where there was an insight into the education of compositions and partnerships, and where no essential function or void of the political system was caused, but the state mechanism was undisturbedly doing its job, without causing the chaos that you want to attack as a bogeyon. The same is true in Spain of the last two elections. The people with their choices give the direction and will be responsible for the parties' formations that will take responsibility for governance with the convergence of the floating relative parties. In the context of the fight against mere analogy, all the opposition parties that were in the first place involved with different intensity and targeting, but most recently and hypocritically, the New Democracy and less the PASOK, who took their own responsibility for at least the demolition of the enhanced analogue and bonuses, focused their criticism on several issues, such as the fragmentation of the major constituencies, the vote of the Greeks of dispersion and the young people who have recently left our country - because of you - of course - seeking opportunities for professional rehabilitation, particularly in the countries of Europe and other continents. All of this and possibly other related issues have dealt with the problem of political life for many years, as long as you have ruled or managed. From at least 2000 onwards, you have had enough of a fragmentary listing and an indicative statement, without taking any substantial initiative to propose and institutionalise this. You didn't want to change anything. Pretexts and nothing else are the political tactics that you now follow with regard to us, which we dare to bring the genuine, democratic method of mere analogy. In hypocritically, then, you are accusing us of proposing an electoral law which is fragmentary in order to escape supposedly from the difficult political context and to transfer the agenda from the acute political problems of the period. But you are striving for it because you are the ones who are striving to settle and repeat wisdom, as good time the 'left parenthesis', which life itself has rejected. You have failed your forecasts continuously and for nine consecutive months. PASOK shows the glaring political inconsistency to want to vote against exactly what it introduced as a law proposal a year ago, in June 2015, when it called for the abolition of the bonus and maintaining the 3% cap. In fact, your position has been updated very recently - two months ago - and through the totalitarian conference of the Democratic Alliance, the shape through which you are represented in this House. The rhetoric developed by some of its members to justify a shift to the sphere of irrationality, that is to say, your own very proposal, I think it is unresponsive to any criticism. But it is good - and we must recognise it - that the rapporteur for the PASOK should be presenting himself to a committee which will study and suggest solutions for individual issues, which was also accepted during the preparatory debate by the Minister responsible, Mr Kurublis. This proposal, if true, adopts the core of the planned change, namely the introduction of the system of simple proportionality, which is, moreover, the major issue with the proposed bill, will enable any flaws to be filled or gaps to be covered in order to match the will of all Greek citizens who have the right to vote with their genuine representation at the National Representation. Let me just note that fragmentation of the large regions involves difficult technical and political initiatives and corresponding decisions, which we can find at some point. The question of the vote of the homosexuals as a prerequisite prerequisite presupposes a scientific and technically sound procedure for the census of the homosexuals, which also needs and requires the setting up of a committee of experts. Technical difficulties that are relevant to both temporary immigrants abroad, without always fixed and permanent residence, can be addressed as issues over time. They require in particular, under Article 51(4) of the Constitution, a majority of two thirds of the total number of Members and thus wider consents to ensure their vote. There is a willingness and will to exist and we are prepared to co-operate and co-decide. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, give me a second more. The legislative initiative on the introduction of simple analogy is an historic option for our Government, the Government of the cooperating parties, SYRIZA, ANEL and the Green Ecohols. Already other democratic parties accept this need, by applauding and choosing the establishment of the most democratic electoral system, which refuses the distortions and mechanics, the self-interest and the service of small-party interests that it required and excites the guilding system of the enhanced analogy. For us, simply analogous voting is not an opportune or extraordinarily optimistic option. It is, as I said, a major challenge and opens up roads for open and true democracy. It is not blackmailed in its vote by any opaque negotiation and does not overlook any shortcomings or imperfections, which, as I have said, can also be self-evidently restored, but also in the context of the debate on the constitutional review.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u26	Please, Mr. Colleague, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u27	It will therefore be voted on by our Government and those who understand the political responsibility and the moral duty they have towards Greek citizens. With these thoughts, then, we call on every political party and every fellow Member who calls on the deepening of democracy and insists that he trusts the people's will to prove it in practice, by voting in favour of all the provisions introduced by the draft law on simple analogues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u28	The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Mavroudis Vorides, is called at Step. Until the colleague comes to Stepma, I would ask him to keep up with the years. I would like to inform you that a hundred forty-five Members have already been registered. If we start not to keep track of times. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat introductory terms the statement made by the rapporteur of the bill Minister on this issue: 'If we establish the simple analogue country, the country will never be governed'. It's a May statement. In reply to the committee, the Minister said: "This is a personal point of view. Whose opinions are they shepherded? Can't I have it?" Not at all. Of course she can. What he must now explain is what followed him, because, while he said in May that the country will never be governed, today, is now proposing exactly the bill with which the country will never be governed. That is what the Minister needs to explain today to the National Representation. And that's not a personal matter. It is a political issue of Papademos, it is a major political issue. There is a central debate, which one could indeed open, and this is the debate on the electoral system, and also on aspects of the political system. It could be said that we really need to talk about it. And it was an opportunity to discuss this, but of course, ladies and gentlemen, we would not discuss two figures. Because what we are discussing today is two numbers: the limit, the age at which one acquires the electoral right, and there one changes, from eighteen to seventeen, and the abolition of fifty. Fifty is zero. These are the interventions made by the government in the political system. Did he raise the question of the internal party functioning of the parties? Oh, no. Has he regulated the issue of the election of the candidates? Oh, no. Has he raised the big issue, in which there could be shocks, of the vote of foreigners? Oh, no. Has he raised the issue of partitioning the electoral districts? Oh, no. Has he raised the question of the funding of the parties? Oh, no. Of all this, which is indeed a great deal of discussion, the government has chosen to change two numbers and - let me - at the time of this possibility. The President of the New Democracy and Chief of Staff Responsibility in his discussion with the Prime Minister of these issues I raised, two of them, concerning the vote of foreigners and the division of the regions, raised them. So there was also the possibility of wide-ranging debate, and there was also the possibility of converging, so that this would not be a splitting process today, but rather a synthetic process. And yet this opportunity the Prime Minister chose to throw it away, to lose it, to lose it. They say: 'In the future, we will talk about them later'. Question: Why is the study, since time is neutral? Would it not be better if the interventions, the debates were complete, so that at the end there would be points and points of agreement and disagreement and not just points of disagreement? So what's the big deal? This is where questions are born. But that's what we'll see in the process. However, we shall go to the essence of the arrangements. What do the settings say? What do you propose, ladies and gentlemen, to be done? In fact, the age limit for the right to vote should be reduced. And we are listening to the well-known rhetoric of youth poverty: 'Our mature youth', 'the youth that must participate'. And whoever says otherwise excludes that right. You know, age limits weightings should be linked to something objective. I have also heard the arguments, but above all I read in the explanatory statement what is the reason why the government suggests that this line of electoral incapacity should be reduced. It says: It strengthens their democratic reflexes, which is of particular importance in a period of crisis of representation and depreciation of politics. Good. If we want to strengthen democratic reflexes, why not reduce the age limit further, so that we can get greater support for more democratic reflexes? What are you going to say: 'This is where the strengthening of democratic reflexes stops?' Fifteen? Fourteen? What limit do you want? Why else would you justify the withdrawal of democratic reflexes? Are you afraid you wouldn't be quite democrats if you stop it where you put it now and don't take it to fifteen? This is obviously not a criterion, nor is it an argument. It says in the explanatory statement a second argument: there is, he says, a 2011 decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In fact, there is a decision that generally calls for this possibility to be examined under various comments from the Member States. True. Who obeyed and attached to this representation of the parliamentary assembly? Austria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u30	Slovenia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u31	That's true. Slovenia. But only on the issues of the self-government elections. So to measure who did not apply it. Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Portugal, Italy. The vast majority of countries did not apply it. Why do you use it as an argument? So make an entirely arbitrary choice. And again, with what argument? Because these two are not arguments. What do we have in this? Because we have heard that we are not with youth, we do not want it, we do not want it because - for some reason - we are a conservative party and the conservative party does not trust young people. There you have to explain why, for example, the conservative party is the first force in universities and why, at the end of the day, your influences, where they were counted at youth level, are sad. But that's what we're leaving. But let us say this: why do we not accept it? Because we say that there must be a criterion on this issue. The criterion must be overall. It can't be arbitrary. That's our position. You want us to adopt what is, after all, an overall approach to the issues of adulthood. What is adulthood based on our Urban Code? Eighteen years. That is where a person acquires full legal capacity. What is adulthood for the full criminal charge? Eighteen. So there too, you have a second criterion. Do you want us to give an adulthood for procedural capabilities, look at what the Code of Civil Procedure says? We'll find the same thing again. Eighteen. This is not an argument for unconstitutionalism, because I was somewhat misunderstood at some point by colleagues. We're not saying you can't configure it constitutionally. You can. We say you don't have a criterion like what we have. Would you like to open a general debate on adulthood? Let's do it, but we won't just do it for the election of adulthood. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when you do so for the election of an adult, you always do what you do. You are lurking waiting for small-scale benefits from important arrangements. That's the problem with this arrangement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Once again, a electorate is inclined. I am not referring to the small electorate of the hundred thousand sixteen - I stress it to be heard - why the seventeen are not voting, but are voting for those who have completed the 17th year in the year when the elections are taking place. Who is that? The sixteen vote now. So far the seventeen voted. So, you're still going down. Why are you doing this? No, I don't think you're doing it to address these hundred thousand, of whom the sixty thousand will vote, based on the average abstention, and if everything goes well, you'll get about twenty of these sixty thousand. We are talking about 0.2% of the election influence. You obviously don't do it for that. You are doing this for the reproduction of this, I say again, of the poverty of youth. You're supposed to be the youth party, and we're not. That's the rhetoric you're developing, and that's the argument. But here, no real argument relating to maturity, to adulthood, to the overall approach to adulthood, has been heard. Our opposition to this is absolutely justified. I now come to the electoral system. What is your main argument? The main argument is expressed in the explanatory statement and says: "The widest possible matching of the parliamentary representation of each political party and coalition with its true electoral power". That is the argument for representation. What is in society, what is recorded, must be depicted in Parliament. I answer directly. In fact, yes, it is a legitimate and proper objective of electoral systems. Sure. Is this the only objective of the electoral systems? Oh, no. Because the electoral systems do not just look at representation, they also look at the capacity for governance. The Greek people, when they vote, choose a correlation of powers, but eventually choose a government and that's what's in their minds. So I come to ask the following simple question, which should be solved, because the electoral systems are - I stress - both objectives, representation and governance. We have stressed this on several occasions, but we have so far not received an answer to this particular question, that is, what Mr Kurublis said. Is the country governed by such a electoral system? If we apply, with a mere analogy - with what is now being voted on, with the abolition of the 50 seats bonus - this electoral system in the distribution of seats with the election results of September we have two possibilities for forming a government: or on the one hand, the government of the first two parties - so we ask you: 'Do you want to say something to us?' - or, on the other hand, government of four smaller parties. Three, four and five parties will be needed in order to become a government. I now come to the consistent Left, which is supposed to want in its governance, a programming speech and a left program to govern, at least until some time ago. I don't know if that's still true. I have a reservation. But, in any case, until some time ago, that was what you said. And I wonder how you will achieve this programming identity with four parties. And I heard the shocking argument: "But what bad happened in Italy that changed sixty governments? The state mechanism was working." This is called an evaluative neutrality of the administration, which means that there are implemented policies that are carried out regardless of who's up, because the administration is doing them. Is that what you like? You're supposed to have a program that's changing and something you're thinking, we're saying now. How will you achieve this with four different parties? I hear the argument: 'But we have tried the governments for cooperation in our country in recent years'. Yes, sir. And I remind you that the government of Papademos was supported by three parties, New Democracy, PASOK and LAOS. The government of Antonis Samaras originally supported three parties, New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR. The two smaller parties during the government left. What would that mean for governance, if it were a majority-government element? The governments didn't fall. Why? Because the number was not required. It would mean falling government, breaking parliament and elections! It's obvious where we're driving and where we're at. But you say: “We are consistent. We are not surprised at this position. It is a position that the Left backed it over time." Does the argument for consistency feel that it is good to use it? Because it's the only thing you're consistent with! So you didn't mind that in all the others you were inconsistent and found this absolutely catastrophic to be consistent! So neither does the argument of consistency have any value. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another two minutes, Mr. President. Because these are all perfectly reasonable and obvious and because, above all, there has been no response on them, you have said nothing to answer these issues, you wonder what you are thinking about what came to you, what you are concerned about. I have never raised the matter of time, but let me say something about the matter of time. If you were so consistent, why has this particular arrangement not been introduced in the first time of your Government? You preferred to go to elections with the existing electoral system. All of a sudden, some measurements show that you are on the tartars and that New Democracy, which is now certain that Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be the Prime Minister next time, now remembered that you have to enter this particular arrangement in neutral time! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So this argument about neutral time would have been much more important if you had brought the regulation in the previous period of your radical fora and not now. And after all, what needs to be understood is this: we are absolutely consistent in our position. Our position is well-known over time and we have supported it: Yes, there is the greatest possible representation, but at the same time at the same time safeguarding rulership. There is also a commitment that we make to the Greek people today on this issue: this lousy electoral law, with its terrible consequences, will never be implemented, because it will be lifted immediately by taking power from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u32	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit, is called at the Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. We have already heard from the rapporteur of the New Democracy - and during the discussions in the committees - express the fear of supposed incapacitation in Greece if the new electoral law is in force and the old and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u34	Please calm down. Whoever wants to get out. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. We said so, and now: Greece, unfortunately, does not exist because you and the puppets of Merkel and the international loan sharks. After all, the bills come from abroad, come in German, in English. Many times you don't have time to read them at all, you just vote together, so don't be afraid that the country won't be governed. The country, unfortunately, with you in trouble, is ruling - I repeat - from abroad. Whoever you're upstairs, you're a maniac of international loan sharks, who do whatever they want to you. So here we have seen - because the New Democracy rapporteur was afraid of how this country would be governed - the coexistence of the two sworn enemies, the PASOK and the New Democracy. Forty-five years there were 'green' and 'blue' cafes, there were different ideologies, different beliefs and they believed somewhere else. But when the situation came to the unprecedented, when they arrived at us, they had a very nice conflict and signed everything that came from abroad. We saw the same thing happen then. We saw a government of people who don't believe in a party that doesn't believe in a religion, which doesn't believe in anything, the government with the SYRIZA party, coming into full association with a party of 'extreme nationalists' - within introductory terms the word - such as the ANELs, who are very patriots and who are running and being cut in the interests of the country. There, then, this coup d'état has also been made, all these abortions are made. So do not worry you, ladies and gentlemen, what will happen tomorrow in our homeland, whether this electoral law is passed or not. There will be three, four, five, seven parties that the chair will unite you will unite you. You will be united by the position of the MP and the minister you wish to have. You have nothing to tell. There are no different ideologies, no different beliefs, nothing. There is a common interest that leads to how you become government, how you get ministerial positions and there you forget everything and become a nice team. After all, let's not forget that at least SYRIZA is not a coexistence with the New Democracy. Uncircumcised. On the substance, all the specific bills that come to the Greek Parliament, all the bills that come - we repeat again - by order of the international loan sharks and SYRIZA and the New Democracy, sign them. So, what are you afraid of? Don't collude? Don't get yourself wrong? Don't people laugh outside in the squares and streets? People are already laughing at you, they're already laughing at what you're doing. Did we forget that on August 14, 2015, the new memorandum, you all voted together? Did we forget the then Chief of the New Democracy, who was yelling here and saying, 'Get a memorandum of no matter what it is and we're going to vote'? Have we forgotten all this? You may forget them in here and forget them selectively, because you don't want to remember them. However, the Greek people, unfortunately, remembers them and there is the Golden Dawn which will constantly remind them of them. So this is the fear of supposed coexistence, a coexistence that exists. All parties are in a good cooperation and your only enemy is Golden Dawn, are Greek nationalists. This is your opponent. We saw a few more days ago an exotic energy being done. He took over Vice-President in the Greek Parliament a Member of the sixth party, the sixth political force, democratically at all times, but not the third political force that is the Golden Dawn. That's how it's done in here. So all this is democratic for you, and those who are fascists and evil ones are the golden ones, who all these things are staggering and all that they call for the Greek people. That's where we've arrived. So we saw an election law and said things like that when we don't talk about one of the most important things, if not the most important thing that an election law can have: Greek homosexuals why do they not have the right to vote? Why have you exiled their Greek excavators? They're out of the way. He has the right to vote on every illegal immigrant that has come in this way. You recognize him rights, we give him rents, we pay him PPC, we pay him PPC, we give him food, and now we put him in the vote. But the Greeks, who have left because of your own policy in here and who are running to find a piece of bread abroad - and of course I am referring to all four hundred twenty-seven thousand who have left for the past five years, but of course also to those who have already left - do not have that right. There are so many millions of Greeks all over the earth. How, then, so many years have you been cutting out for the Greeks, have you not given all the relatives the right to vote? And how did you find such an easy solution for each of them to vote from Bangladesh, from anywhere invading our country's borders? How do you find laws for them and windows open, but you can't find out about Greek expatriates? The Golden Dawn has therefore tabled an amendment - and here there is another symptom of your so-called democracy and your Parliament - which has not even come, you have not accepted it to be discussed, while it is in the short term. Who gives you the right to reject the Golden Dawn amendments? Who gives you the right not to discuss this matter within the Greek Parliament, because it does not interest you? Who gives you the right to have expelled all Greeks and not to have the right to vote? But you are shaking to have these Greeks the right to vote, because you know very well that your electoral percentages there are low. So, here's a violent change of the electorate in our country. The best minds are being persecuted, our young people and young people are being persecuted and going abroad for a better tomorrow and in their place they come and vote for each illegal immigrant, I repeat. So this statement of the Golden Dawn amendment was not debated, it was not heard by anyone. But we'll call it for the Greeks to know, either within or outside the border. The Golden Dawn has tabled this amendment, which you are not discussing, because you do not dare. As we will also table an amendment - to see how a electoral law changes, if you really want to change in a substantial way - for the abolition of Members. It is not possible for Greece to have three hundred MPs. It's too much. But here I do not see anyone talking about this particular issue. It pleases you to be three hundred or even four hundred and share the pie. Members must be reduced. They must be at least two hundred. This is the proposal of the Golden Dawn. This issue will be brought into line with an amendment which, of course, will not be debated democratically. But we will call it, and we will keep telling it in the Greek society that is watching us. These things are incomprehensible and only the Golden Dawn has the courage to say them, because only we care about the ordinary Greek citizen and we are the only ones who are opposed to a 'constitutional bow' that does everything it can to create problems for the simple Greek, who constantly legislates against Greeks and for illegal immigrants. Here, then, stands opposite the Golden Dawn, yelling, lifting up and saying that we fight and fight for the Greeks. And if that's bad, let's pay it! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We have therefore witnessed the last days of a procedure. We saw the Prime Minister talk to Papandreou, talking to Kuveli, talking to the economists. They all represent themselves. They represent nothing else, and the Prime Minister talks about it! It does not dare, however, to discuss with the third power of the country, with the votes of the Greek people. So you all reject four hundred thousand Greek citizens who have voted for Golden Dawn, who are more of course now. Whenever there are elections, you'll see that. But you 'democrats' throw them in this trash and don't want their voice to be heard. We will be here and will continue to be the voice of Greek citizens. So how does the Prime Minister go and make meetings with all of them and does not discuss and exchange any opinion with the Head of the Third Political Force, Nikos Michaloliakos? Here are questions for democrats! We would ask you to resolve them after a while, democratically! We heard before, but also all these days, various "pads" coming out of the left, from the right and shouting, saying that the Golden Dawn had agreed and would vote. Some people said he didn't agree and he won't vote. But the problem was whether this electoral law would pass by the votes - it says - the golden ones! You don't mind if he goes by the votes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Rabbit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u37	If this electoral law goes through with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Rabbit! Well, the last phrases of Mr. Bunny are erased from the Minutes. In this House there are MPs from the people, who are voted on by the people and accountable to the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u39	And a lot of them are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u40	If you have to say a name of a MP thief or a crook, say it. General references are not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u41	Don't worry! Good, I'm wrong that it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u42	They can't be accepted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u43	I shall say that I believe that there is a simple reason for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u44	In the end, you too are in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u45	Will you let me speak or don't you let me speak democratically? So when a request for the waiver of immunity is made for MPs whose case concerns fraud, in essence, and the fact that money has been stolen from the Greek State - as has happened in the Greek Parliament and especially in recent months, but also in the past - the whole constitutional - and good! - vote 'no' on the waiver of immunity. This is because you are afraid to vote 'yes' because if they go to Greek justice, they will be held in prison and if they are found in prison, you are all involved. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] After all, it is no coincidence that the President of Parliament, who is here a few months ago in a debate that had taken place and at a meeting with representatives of the OTA, said that there are financial scandals that have been made both in the municipalities and elsewhere and that it would be very good not to discuss it because the only one to be won is Golden Dawn. Yes, it's Golden Dawn, because we haven't stolen, because we're not cheaters, and why we haven't exploited the Greek citizen. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] If you dare, bring these issues to the Greek Parliament to discuss them and see who the democrat is and who the fascist is. With this new electoral law, if the Golden Dawn voted for it, we could, under the existing circumstances, elect six to seven MPs, at least above. But we don't care about that. Our goal is not how to win with various terminological terminology and get another six, five, another seven MPs. We are interested in staying faithful to our ideas and principles, and we are interested in being absolutely right about what we say and what we do. And that is why we will do so and will not accept becoming either "urine" of the SYRIZA, as some people have said, nor "urine" of course of the New Democracy. Besides, so you don't get confused, you two are partners. I repeat again that you are voting for bills in exactly the same way. Golden Dawn will react. Golden Dawn does not accept anyone's underhand. Our attitude will be to tell you about the good things here in the days that the debate will take place, and during the vote we will simply leave. We have nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Let me tell you something else and close with it: Whatever electoral law and bring, whatever electoral term and do, whatever the trick, the Golden Dawn is giggling, the Golden Dawn is increasing its election rates. And the only way to stop us - and if you want, do it, because that's what you all want - is to lock us in prison! That's the only way the Golden Dawn will stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u46	We're moving on. I call on Mr Constantine Scandalides to take the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, we are being devoured by terrorist acts, coups in the region. Europe cannot respond, it is awkward in the face of problems, it has no strategy. In Greece the locks and the unemployed are growing, the people are constantly poor. The country starts to turn from European to tertiary world, it walks without compass in the world of triumph. In a world troubled, in a Europe which is awkward, 'our homes that are ours.' Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, all these days we have been living a huge opportunism. Everything is going on in the altar of political survival, in the name of established principles and values, give me to give you. You're going to tell me: is this a new phenomenon? Of course not! The same motto we have lived through decades now from the ventilating systems of the 1950s, from 17% of the second division and from there in the analogy, when we were second, almost majority when we were first and a number of inconsistencies, contradictions and contradictions, all on the altar that have the subject of how a party will benefit from a change in the electoral system. They circumvent the examples, and that is what you consider to be self-criticism. But I must note that in the later period PASOK changed its way. First of all, it attempted the incision with the constitutional review, when it said that it would not take place from the next elections, the electoral system would not apply. This has helped so much to vote. And then he attempted a section, rather he presented a thirty bonus section in the first party, absolutely proportional to all the rest, regional and prefectural organizations, support for small parties, 3%, capacity for co-operation, double cellar, cross and list, a revolutionary proposal. And then, the political system and the government itself, but above all the PASOK Group did not succeed in proving mature to accept a huge section, which would help very much to have a different political system from what we are experiencing. And it has been twelve years since, that nothing has happened, in this particular direction. And now it's the first time left. At the beginning of Babel, all - time opinions. In these days it seems - I do not believe - that 3% should be haggling, it states open to changes only when it thinks that they are of interest, it denies any debate that would lead to consensus and bring a bill of goodwill. And yet, the Prime Minister has linked the Constitution to the electoral law, to the electoral system, it has linked major changes - supposedly - to this overall intervention he wants to make. But instead of discussing these changes, which are unified, which are linked and while it claims that time is neutral - and I would say that in her will it is time to be neutral, even though this means that the Prime Minister has alternative scenarios, at any time he can take the country to elections - no debate took place in the government before that story comes, this proposal in the Greek Parliament. This does not honour you because it demonstrates that, for once, at this time, you are making a political party - which is wrong in my opinion - as regards the course of things in our country. On the other hand, we have the late reformer. The one who will change the map of political life and aspires to lead the country to the future, alone, with his party? Why does he call ‘Down out of my fifty seats’? And then what? It is the policy of the first party, the potential first party. All in the forefront of a negotiation that is taking place under the table and not before the light, a negotiation which was not initiated by a committee at the Ministry of the Interior to discuss all issues openly, to tell all parties their views and to come out of a consensual, substantial, large, radical proposal that will give answers and solutions to the problems. We didn't get in on that one. Because we have clearly given the position of the five points: Firstly, we have called for the simple proportionality to be introduced so that the cooperation and association of forces can be facilitated and enforced at the same time as not to be offended and the implementation of popular sovereignty to be cancelled. And I can explain why this proposal is simply proportional. Because in any case where the first party does not give a potential majority, there will necessarily be governments of cooperation and parties, which do not form a majority in the Greek people, will be forced to enter the House, and that is not a totalitarianness of the fifteen and twenty parties, which, with the abolition of 3%, would have to become a government of foreigners among them. But when you claim that there are progressive and conservative policies, this is what the method is. We must say here that we all recognise that we are at the end of a period of time, at the end of the one-party governments, at the end of party hegemony, at the end of self-resistance and that we have a deep crisis of representation. What do we say? Until a threshold, up to 42%, there should be substantially absolute proportional. Why do we put the 42% limit on it? Because we will protect the National Representation from becoming a government without the first party, when it expresses a major power in Greek society. This in Germany, for example, which has a simple proportional system, is 47%. Another is 44%. However, a majority current does not always need a porn to be able to make a government and depend on a weak partner. For example, today's governmental cooperation between disparate powers, which for others seems to be a good cooperation, for those who see political things nakedly, does not look so good among disparate powers, if they are still disparate. Then there is the legend of thirty, forty, and fifty. Take an experiment. Try applying the results of the latest bonus elections to fifty, bonuses to forty and bonuses to thirty. With 50 bonuses the first party wins practically thirty one seat - not one more - with forty, eighteen bonuses and thirty, eleven bonuses. Make the bills. Because it is not simple, simple analogous to what you are proposing. With this process, we believe that in a mere proportional system, saying that by 42%, if there is not a first party that is more than 42%, there will be absolute proportional and co-operation governments and if above this threshold there is a first party, because it is the limit of a potential majority current, it will be able to become a country's government with minimum aid. Secondly, to maintain the limit of the entry of the parties to the House to 3%, not only for reasons of nationalism, which are supported for this reason, but for the very essence of the multi-party parliamentary democracy, a culture based on organised collectively subjects, who claim to express collective plans on the course of the place and not on the ambitious leaders and on the sum of personalities, which could be an absolute fragmentation to effectively disperse the National Representation. 3% also has the meaning, there is in all the major serious political systems, that multi-party parliamentary democracy is based on the collective subject - party and a national promise that it can play a role in the things of the country, not in the name of any ambitious leader or person who wants to save the country and can because he is a good actor, he is a good singer or a good politician who speaks an anchor to enter the House, because he will take the minimum, 1 to 300 - if you want to - of the process of so-called completely proportionate without 3%. Thirdly, the fragmentation of the large constituencies, which, in general, distort the relationship between people and representatives, depersonate it, depend on unequal conditions of competition and become areas of strong interconnection between economic and political interests. Do you not want to abolish the large regions? Remove the cross. To abolish the cross and to get a list means that our parties are capable of doing this job? Let us stand in the face of the great problems of our political system and party democracy. Let's stand against leadership. Let us stand against the fact that all the statutes are anticipating elections and nowhere is being implemented. Let us stand against what we National Representation Members live every day. It is not true that the division of these regions, which we all recognise, has not happened because it has not happened. It became apologies. Because the reaction is great. Because everything comes into this process of political feasibility and everything comes into the process of playing the chair. We proposed. There's another proposal. We made a proposal for 2nd Athens, made a proposal for 1st Athens, made a proposal for the Region of Attica, for Thessaloniki. Why aren't you ready to discuss such a proposal? Why don't we just go to the trouble, since we want to work on a new political system at last to respond to this major issue? Fourthly, regarding the possibility of Greek residents voting abroad, firstly, the constitutional check must finally be implemented and, above all, for the right to be granted by means of written vote or by the self-personal presence, where possible, to the five hundred thousand young people who have been forced to hang out in recent years because of the economic crisis. I want to stay in this. You know we all swore to the Constitution that we would apply the vote of Greek residents abroad and we all passed by governments. No government brought it. It is not so difficult after changing the electoral lists with the polls and after the vote of the hetero-democrats set up since 2003. It's not hard to do. Are you willing to do this? You should've brought it here, talked about it. Finally, with regard to the adoption of the vote at seventeen, for reasons relating to the development of young people with the political, competence and knowledge of the choice and the maturity of the Greek society, I would remind you that we were the ones who in 1992 brought the vote to eighteen. Now that knowledge is doubled every two years on the planet, which young people have access to the latest information that happens anywhere in the universe, not only on the planet earth, they have the possibility under an appropriate preparation to be mature to decide. They have the ability to choose, that is, to vote at seventeen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the change in the electoral system must necessarily be linked to the constitutional reform. Principles such as the autonomy of politics by economic and media interests, transparency in the functioning and funding of parties, the safeguarding of internal party democracy, the open procedure for the promotion of political staff require and require constitutional safeguards, in addition to the necessary complementation of the basic standards of the electoral system and related changes in the current legislative framework. I think, therefore, that in this constitutional review, I was very angry at the fact that the Prime Minister appeared and what he found to say about the Constitutional Review is the direct election of the President of the Republic, without connecting it with responsibilities, without telling us what kind of citizenship it will be that he will elect the President of the Republic from the basis, without telling us how he will deal with the dispute at the highest level of the executive and, above all, why the Constitutional Review does not suffer if the President of the Republic is elected by the people. The Constitutional Review has the ability of the electoral circles not to be interrupted by the election of the President of the Republic and by the possibility of giving answers to the political system on the substance, for the great change needed. And that shows that it's going to be a chance. And you will present your views. We, too, have presented our views. Shouldn't all of this be done through a process of preconference between the parties when it comes to the whole political system? Instead, we saw the Minister speak his personal opinion a few days ago, and then a different law came, because a total of opinion began to be formulated. We suggested that you withdraw the bill and organize the intergroup committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u48	What about you? I'll see you around. Didn't you endure the temptation of the Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u49	Please calm down to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u50	You have heard the second and you have responded - and thank you for responding - but without the first, that is to say, discussing electoral law, the second one does not make sense. Because that's not how things go forward. Ladies and gentlemen, as Antonis Samarakis would have said, the Temple of Adolescents, who has been the soul for many years, is asking for hope. If we do not give it even now and continue a pathetic opportunism, the place does not escape the shipwreck. We won't follow you on this. We're struggling to open a communication channel when you close the doors, one after the other. We'll try again. PASOK and Democratic Reconciliation will now also be a force of patriotic responsibility and a progressive perspective in the objective of Greece finally returning page and changing rhetoric. Believe me, from my experience and my long term service here, it will not change with a mere rotation of self-sufficient and self-sufficient powers or with insolence. It will change through a new national strategy, which can lead things forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u51	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law on electoral law includes in the five articles of the four basic regulations: The right to vote from the age of seventeen, the abolition of the 50 seats bonus, the maintenance of the 3% cap and, of course, Article 5, the entry into force of this law immediately after the next elections, provided that the 2/3 vote, which seems to have taken the decision to be with New Democracy in this law, against the electoral law. We want to be absolutely clear from the start of the debate on the position of the JRC in the disputed arrangements of this draft law. The JRC shall vote 'yes' in Article 1 on the right to vote from the seventeenth year of age. You've said a lot about youth. You consider her mature, flatter her and, on the other hand, you have turned her into the greatest victim of the needs of capital. They are living the results of all your policies, the nightmare of unemployment, underemployment and the greatest deadlocks in their lives. But the New Democracy, which basically says 'no' to the vote in seventeen years, considers youth from fifteen mature to choose the direction to be followed. I am referring to education, because so far this has been the law that applied and it has been your choice. We call on her to be assembled in the fight to overthrow this barbarism, to participate, to take the lead in the struggles and to participate in the elections with the subversive line, colluding with the JRC and its proposal, which is the only philosophical way out for the people and youth. We are voting 'yes' in Article 2 for the abolition of the 50 seats bonus. We are also voting 'yes' in Article 5, which provides that the arrangements are valid from the next elections. We are not voting on Article 3, which retains the rule of exclusion from the parliamentary representation of those formations which do not reach at least 3% of the valid votes throughout the territory. We have tabled an amendment providing for the abolition of the 3% clause and we are asking for it to be accepted. We have disagreed with the fragmentation of the regions because it is at the expense of the smaller parties. Of course the reproduction of the chair, Mr. Scandalidis, is none of our business. The New Democracy amendment, which provides for arrangements for the exercise of the electoral right by the Greek people, seems to us to want a separate debate because it has many aspects. Greek immigrants who live in the racism of the Nazi fascists, the likes of Golden Dawn, know well who they are and do not flatter what they heard here by her special speaker. In principle, we will vote'represent' because maintaining the 3% clause is not a simple, unadulterated analogue system which the JRC claims to be a permanent electoral system. We want to remind you that SYRIZA in 2012 had tabled a corresponding law proposal without the cap. Today's Prime Minister and then Chief of Officerial Response said that it is not just proportional to 3% plaque. It should also be recalled that in May 2012, 19% of the plaque was out of parliament, as well as 6% in September. Invoke the necessity of the alliances. Three percent won't stop. System reserves are always ready to put back on his defence, to serve his needs. They are ready to contribute, so that there will be a government and so-called "political stability" for capital, while at the same time instability for the working people's family. Other arguments which have been raised in committee meetings, as well as in various television debates on the need to maintain the 3% threshold because of national reasons, are even dangerous, because they exacerbate the problem. The JRC supports an electoral system without any bonuses and entry plaques in the House. They are the prerequisites for equal voting and accurate representation of the electoral correlation in seats. In question, why did the government now bring electoral law, as a JRC, we have given our interpretation. The government has brought the electoral law and on the one hand it is trying to disorientate the people from the steep problems that its policy creates, the measures it takes for the capitalist recovery and have worsened the lives of the people, and on the other it wants to contribute to the formation of the political scene in the conditions that are being created. The electoral system provided for in this draft law, despite the objections mainly from the New Democracy, comes to strengthen the diplomacy, to strengthen it, so that there is a governmental rotation of the forces of the diploma, which support the same strategy of capitalist development as the ever deeper exploitation of workers and the people, to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. Let us remember, of course, that SYRIZA took advantage of the bonus of the fifty seats and in January and September 2015. Now, in the context of the reform of the urban system, it seeks to maintain the first role in the centre-left polo. This is the key issue on which he is developing his arguments on coalition governments, on the culture of consensus, on the renewal of political forces and civilian personnel, and on the safeguarding of political stability through the coalition governments. SYRIZA is on the same line as in the European Union. As announced by SYRIZA, the political movement of the Progressive Group in the European Parliament, set up by MEPs from the GUE, the Social Democrats and the Greens, was established. In fact, the temporary executive committee includes Mr Papadimoulis, Members of the German De Linke, the social democratic parties of France and Italy, the parties that have taken the lead in the cracking of popular rights. The lifting of proportionality facilitates this pursuit of SYRIZA for forming a co-operation government with its own body, regardless of whether it comes out second, because there will be such forces that, in front of the "progress or darkness" dilemma, will support and participate in a government of supposedly progress. SYRIZA wants, even if a second party comes out, to be able to make a government with a tank of the other parties or individual MPs to emerge. The New Democracy, based on the current political forces, has less room for cooperation, which is why it fears this system of proportional expression, which is why it puts forward and exploits this argument of intergovernmentalism, of political instability, which, of course, has not been confirmed. And with this electoral system, Mr Voridis, there have been ways of dealing with political instability and instability. You were the first to enter that logic and with your great enemy, the PASOK, you made the government and the PASOK with you - on the brilliant right - made the government. The very concern of ensuring political stability is expressed by the economic situation. A share supports the strengthening of the first party, is drafted with the New Democracy and the enhanced analogue, because it does not want difficulties in forming the government. However, there is another part that has been expressed and says that there is a need for a greater overall degree of stability, that large government structures are needed, so that the restructurings, reforms, in depth, are carried out the overthrows needed for capital, so that they can dominate, enter into competition with other monopolistic groups. The opposition of the parties to power is to whom the new law gives most of the opportunities to assert and be the challenger of power. The electoral system enables the polling dilemmas to be increased on progress and maintenance. It will further strengthen the logic of the lost vote. The people, of course, have experience, as I have said before, of the convergence of forces that were hostile to each other, such as the New Democracy and the PASOK - of the forces of darkness and progress, as they said about the other - from the formation of the convergence in the face of the needs of capital. In addition, the unified attitude of urban parties with the third memorandum is also recent. All together, when the system has problems, they unite, they add powers, so that they can stabilise it, strengthen it, load all these measures in the first, second and third memorandum measures to the people. And we do not know how much longer they will follow, so that the system can recover and enter the sphere of growth and profitability. Any electoral system, even the mere unadulterated analogy, will make governments that will not change the capitalist way of production and power, which is responsible for the suffering of our people. The people will be bleeding and with a government resulting from the simple analogue. The capitalist system wants to integrate into active action to serve its strategy more consenting, co-regulating, creating the necessary framework for its recovery, for capitalist development. A large percentage of the electorate forms a voting criterion based on the polluter dilemmas, as well as the active action of the mechanisms of capital. The JRC, in addition to the simple analogue system, which wants to be voted on without the 3% ceiling, is aimed at the workers and the people, whom we clearly say it is not enough to vote once in four years on the basis of the election of a government. Philolic changes cannot exist from any government that serves God of profit. Any government that manages the needs of this system will be anti-popular. That is why the JRC calls, above all, on the workers to organize their struggle in the workplace, where terrorism dominates, strengthens fear and finally defines the attitude of the majority in the elections. This is the other side, which the JRC is struggling for, which prioritises. It is the organization of workers in their trade unions, other people's classes in the people's organisations. It is the reconstructing of the labour, the popular movement with a line of questioning, ruptured and overthrowing of this rotten system, which worsens the lives of our people every day, in order to serve the needs of capital against the life of our workers and our people by demanding modern folk needs. This can give the struggle of our people the impetus forward, to change the correlations of forces, to destabilise the forces supported by the system that gives rise to unemployment, poverty, impoverishment, which breaks down the dreams of young people. The social alliance of workers, self-employed, poor farmers, who are destroyed by capital support policy, with the force of their struggle to cover losses and radical changes for the benefit of the majority of the people, will weaken the alliances of the monopolies, their political staff, will make the stability pursued by capital for the deeper exploitation of workers and the people even more difficult. The JRC has another proposal for the organisation of the economy and power, which we are discussing with the working class and popular strata. We are struggling for the power to be lost by the order that today has the keys to the economy in its hands. We are struggling for an economy that workers, by socialising all the means of production, taking advantage of every production capacity in the country, taking advantage of the central design as the absolute law of the new socio-economic system, which aims to satisfy the modern needs of the people. Labour - people's control over the growing free time guaranteed for him will ensure genuine representation in the organs of labour power. In the labour-people's power the representatives of our people will be elected by the production sites, by the industries will be elected and have no privilege. They'll be recalled through the conventions. There is no relationship between this form of organization of power and the one that exists today and oppresses the people. Conspiracy, collapsing with the JRC is a one-way way to deal with the capital support policy, which is conducted either with governments created by bonus and deaf election systems or with governments simply proportional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are still two fellow speakers, Mr Constantine Barriots and Mr Marios Georgiadis. Mr. Kokalis, because of a small family problem, asked to speak tomorrow. I accepted it. I would also like to inform you that a hundred fifty-five colleagues have been registered. This is why tomorrow's sitting will start at one noon. I say this to the Members who will be watching the list tonight and to know when they will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u54	Until when are we going tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u55	Instead of 12 o'clock at night, because of the half-hour we've lost waiting we're going to 12 and half. Tomorrow we begin at noon instead of the five o'clock in the afternoon. With a calculation we have done, it is probably certain that the list of registered speakers will be exhausted on Thursday. That is to say, all the Members will speak. So the sitting will start tomorrow at noon. Soon the lists will come out and you'll have an image. Please, Mr. Barriotta, special speaker from the river, come to Stepma. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, speeding up the vote on the electoral law in the summer, I think it is clear that it is another type of disorientation operation that the government has often used. He's used to us in this guy's communication surprises. What is important is that this time the "heavy artillery" was inspected to win the impressions. While the Minister of Home Affairs was talking in May and others would let go forth about the new electoral law and how he would suddenly be within two weeks of internal party dialogue - because there was no other - he was pulled down, he came down, if you prefer, from the left iconostasis and he was surrounded by one of the holy and loyal left, the famous simple analogue. It is known that a mere analogue has been banned in recent years during post-population, in a kind of posture, a totem, for which no one can question its value or discuss its value in political life. I would remind you that the simple analogue was the obvious and most interesting for small parties - they are still today - as were the left parties at the time when they were trying and striving to cross the line to enter the House. As is well known, the ideological ratification of the Left has turned it into an ideological ideology, which stands up and for which no one can discuss. Its strength is such that when the parties of the old two-partyism, the New Democracy and the PASOK - the New Democracy even today - went through or supported the enhanced analogous, when they were attracted, they never spoke against mere analogy, but went through the enhanced compromises as necessary by ideal. The constant demand from the Left and the progressive world, however, was never only proportionality, just a simple analogue. The constant demand within these decades was at last a stable, permanent, always the same, discussed and agreed by all the wings, an electoral system that has proportional characteristics, a simple analogue system, is fair and transparent. I bet the Left and the progressive world was also the adjustment of the regions and the distortions they create, as well as the opportunities for corruption and complications they create. There were still very interesting things, such as inner-party democracy, the list against the cross, for example, as well as the vote on the frustrations. In other words, they were discussing and putting in a framework that is far away from what the government is tabling as electoral law today, because you see the proportionality of voting was one of the most important problems in post-population and has played with it at times the whole political system. But more importantly, in my view, it was the complexity, the old-fashioned crusade mechanisms that exist both in small and large regions and which supported and supported rousphetti and the customer system. The crossroads were the problem of the electoral system and proportionality together. The small and the large complexity has been and still is the problem, especially in the large regions. But is that totem of mere analogous? No, it says Ilias Nikolakopoulos, who, apart from a recognised voter, is a man who no one can say that he is hostile to the current government. It's a simple analogue, it says in an interview in an unsuspecting time, which I caught online. All systems are complex. And I don't know, Mr. Nicolakopoulos says. All electoral systems are fraudulent, says a recognised voter. Shall we make a historical regression to where the simple analogue has rarely been applied? If we look at what happens in Europe today - which I think should be the measure, not some of the ideologies of post-population, but what mature democracies do today - we will see that most, not all, actually have proportionate systems, with differences. It is almost impossible to find two systems today in Europe that identify themselves, to be the same. It's proportional, it's not just proportional. It was simply proportional in the Republic of Baimar in the Middle War in Germany, where a strong left-wing majority of 70% in the Constitutional Assembly after the war established the simple analogue to see its strength devastated in a continuous political instability until the simple analogue elected Hitler as leader. To God, I do not want to say that there are proportions to the Greek reality - neither by the mind - nor that the mere analogue created the problem in the Republic of Baimar. The lesson, however, is - and we must keep it - that perhaps the simple analogue may not help in times of crisis, economic and social, like the one that our country is going through today. Maybe it's not helping out of the crisis. You have to think about it. Incidentally, did you see any fascist - from those who know history, why do fascists know history - involved and "licked" until the last minute to discuss the simple analogue? Do you think it's for the four more MPs? In the instability, who's happy? Instability is part of the mere analogy. Did you see any populist from a small party coming directly with you on conditionality? See what happened in Italy? The choice of mere analogous to post-war Italy had a single objective, the exclusion of Italy's state-of-the-art communist party, from the possibility of coming to power. That was the aim of mere analogy in Italy. That is why Mr Nicholas may be characterising all systems as potentially fraudulent. We know the price. Mr. Vorides said so before. Sixty-one government in sixty years, instability, terrorism and both political extremes and corruption, collapse in the 1990s, a few million years in prison for the political system of Italy and "berlusconism". What have they got today? The worst electoral system in Europe with a difference, the most unfair and the most serious, the result of a whole process. Is it really a door that we want to open? Is the way out of the crisis to strengthen the instability and fragmentation of the political world? The closer the index to the absolute simple analogue, the more the instability increases. It's for granted. It's a conversation that needs to be done. We've got to get out of here. Is the democratic demand of our time, too? To avoid hiding, the simple analogue in the 1970s and 1980s was the demand of a world requiring democratisation. And if it is democratisation today, why do we not abolish the 'election threshold'? Why don't you abolish the 'poor'? What is more democratic and proportional? To take the Communist Party and the Potami from one or two MPs above, according to the results of September, or to enter the House the LAPD that stayed out for ten thousand votes and three other parties, if the threshold goes down to 1%, which means that twelve or fifteen MPs from today are bonuses to all the rest and would go to the previous ones? Where does democracy end and where does micropolitical and micro-party interests begin? We have a firm view. We're in favour of 3%. However, if we are talking about democratisation and the bet is democratisation and proportionality, then you will allow me to tell you that the threshold is far more undemocratic than a bonus of ten or twelve seats in the first party. We could talk about that, too. I don't want to get wrong. Obviously the electoral law must be as proportionate as possible. But it is equally obvious that government stability and the possibility of the country being governed in an extremely dangerous period of time must be guaranteed. Also, in today's Greek reality, it must strike and weaken the crusade mechanisms and help to renew political staff and political life. This is a gold incision that should have been sought. It is a golden incision that we can now seek through a broader dialogue, which unfortunately has not happened without ideologies of post-population and idealization and, above all, from short-term micro-group pursuits. It is a fact that we have an unacceptable electoral law. This is another chapter. Just one example to say from Chania Prefecture. In May 2012, New Democracy first came to a pan-Hellenic level and fifth to Chania. He elects three of the four MPs. The same year in the same election, with 18.8% of the New Democracy on a pan-Hellenic level, takes 36% of the MPs. This law needs to be changed. And unfortunately, the Civic Opposition chooses passively to support it even today. But with him the chaotic regions must change. Complication, cross-arming and opacity must be struck. For a substantial change, especially the habit of regularism that everyone has had and which, unfortunately, you copy: "I change the law whenever it suits me, as it pleases me, in view of the next or even the next elections." This was the source of the problems of the Greek political system throughout the period of postpopulation. It's still today. I have not heard a new argument or a different logic from that old trivialized logic of micropoliticalism. Instead of reform and debate, we have an electoral law that is fraudulent, even though it is proportionate. He's a fraud, because he's actually trying to block the opposing party in the well-known old way. It is contradictory, because it introduces a vote in high schools - in the First High School, it is entitled to vote - and, at the same time, it denies the vote of the impunity, for reasons which really are incomprehensible to me. It is 'business as usual', unfortunately, as I said before. It does not touch the essence of the problem - because it is not proportionality, it is one of the problems and, possibly, not the most important - but it also maintains rheufetti, the complexity and opacity of the problem, in so far as it does not change the way Members are elected as well as the large regions, not only in Athens but also in the province. We in the river have had and have a proposal that tries to deal with both proportionality and governance, and is particularly concerned with the renewal of persons and mechanisms. In other words, we have an integrated, structured proposal for reform. I will say a great deal more tomorrow for reasons of time, both for the one-sided and the small bonus we are proposing for the first party. All these parameters are understood to be discussed. Besides, the first event we had - we are the only party that had an event for the electoral law - was held in December and we called on Mr Vernardakis, Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Miltiadis Papaioannou in an open process in Zappeion. We have sought, in other words, what the government avoids, such as the devil in Lebanon, an open democratic debate which could produce a completely new electoral system. Unfortunately, we are seeing tacticalism again. These tactics and the way the government is handling the problem today may serve short-term interests successfully. It's a clever solution to invoke the simple analogous really and I said at first why. I think, however, that it does not serve the country's medium-term interest, which is stability, renewal of the political system, convergences of forces and cooperation within a stable political framework, with large and strong governments. But it is, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, a very long missed opportunity. In fact, I believe that this government, with these political features - it does not matter whether or not I disagree - was the only government in recent years, and possibly the only government for the next one, which could change the political system at the bottom, substantially changing, really, by reforming the country's electoral system,'suppliering' the regions, changing the way Members are elected and possibly making the simple proportional within such a framework, if it were. It is a waste of opportunity for the political system, because from here, as has rightly been said in the committees, the 'warrants' - have been heard - do not allow the break-up of the second Athens. I really think this is a very long missed opportunity for a fleeting dream of two hundred seats, which just collapsed with the departure of the extreme right from the Chamber. There is no reform, there is only minorism. Mr Kourublis was wondering during the committees - and I will close with that - why the Potami supports the strengthening of the New Democracy - of the first party, did not say the New Democracy - which substantially weakens the political position of the River in the negotiations after an election. The truth is - and I have said it before - that the interest of small parties is simply proportional and abolishing 'the threshold'. It is the joy of the interlocutory and small parties. But I think that in this logic - which is not Mr Kurubli, but is all about the political system - there is the essence of the country's problem, the inability to put before the party interest, the short-lived party interest, the national interest, the inability to look away, so that we can get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u57	With Mr. Marios Georgiadis, special speakers will be closed. On behalf of the Ministry responsible this evening I was informed that the State Secretary, Mr Ioannis Balafas, will speak. Minister Kurublis will speak tomorrow. But, Minister, before tonight's sitting, I would like you to inform us at the Bureau, whoever is at that time, about what time you will be talking about, in order to draw up the programme tomorrow and that, because I was informed by the President of this House that tonight they have asked to speak - regardless of the bill, but they have the right - Mr. Vitsas and Mr. Dritsas. Members will start speaking and every four or five will speak, and each Minister will speak. Tomorrow it is to speak four other ministers except the Minister responsible. Then, tonight, we want to know when you will speak, Minister, to make tomorrow's programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Undersecretary will speak next?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u59	He will speak, finishing Mr. Georgiadis, on behalf of the Ministry. Mr. Kurublis has expressed his desire to speak tomorrow. He has a right to speak tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u60	I'll let you know, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u61	Good. I'm just saying that your keynote speech will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u62	What time will the Minister speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u63	He said Mr. Kurublis, Mr. Loverdos, he'll tell him what time he'll talk about tomorrow. Mr. Georgiadis is in Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. We are finally discussing today, perhaps for the first time in post-military terms, a draft law on simple proportionalness, despite the fact that twenty-nine times over the last ninety years and seven times since 1974, a electoral law has been working on this House. What goes beyond me, however, is the fact that we are discussing whether a mere analogue is reasonable and beneficial electoral system. The word "simply" was invented by the New Greeks to bring the term "advanced analogy" to the fore. The term ‘reinforced analogue’ exists nowhere else in the world. It is purely Greek, what we call "Greek patent". As long as you look in all the countries of the world, you will only find the term 'proportional', i.e. proportional, and more specifically the term is 'party list proportional', in order to demonstrate what we say just proportionally with party lists. Neither simple proportional, nor reinforced proportional exists anywhere. I also put a list of the electoral systems of the rest of the countries for what is true. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same applies to the chair bonus. It is purely Greek terminology. Any bonuses the rest of the Western world give are minimum seats, as a result of rounding the decimals and always in the context of proportional representation of parties. This is an important moment for us, because simply analogues have always been a constant demand for the democratic world and for our party since its inception in 1992. Other parties at times have been in favour of mere analogy, but lately, they seem to change and support the so-called enhanced analogy, that is, the 'first to take everything' system. And that's not enough. They react strongly and unjustly and perhaps from the evil one in our President's unequivocal statement that we will support this initiative of the government. Let us look at one - one of the objections raised by those who disagree with the provisions of the draft law, especially those who have ruled thanks to spice systems. Firstly, we, as the Central Association, come to give it a board of salvation. But were you, PASOK and New Democracy, who were you still cultivating fear with no dilemmas, seeking polarization and the preservation of votes? Let me remind you of "Karamanlis or tanks", "Andreas comes", later "Mitsotakis comes" and "the stock market comes", but also the recent "now we have memorials". All of this doesn't touch us. We, ladies and gentlemen, did not choose at this time. We're clear: we're not playing with the institutions. We do not connect the application of simple analogy to whether it is leapy in the year or to what month we have today or to how many memorials have been signed or, ultimately, to whether a fantastic enemy named Annivas is ante portas! This happened to come from the so-called 'first left time'. What can we do? What should concern us, however, is the refusal of PASOK, which, from the time of Andreas, promised to bring together socialism and simple analogues. Instead, the IMF was finally brought in in 2010. The simple analogue is not a flag of opportunity or a place for those who want to avenge their enemies. It is the opportunity for sincere consultation, consultation, understanding and agreement. Simple analogue is a demand for democratic people, calling for progressive parties, and it is a sign of the consolidation of democracy. Its adoption leads to cooperation governments, where everyone respects the complementary, different opinion, even the opposite, provided that there is good will. And since I say goodwill, unfortunately it is a word unknown to the large parties, who are engaged in an arrogant contest. So let us see what the self-powered governments of the last forty years have been offering: armies of appointed slow-wages, retreat to national issues, prosperity to the few and the people in poverty, bankruptcy and international financial control, strife and scandals. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Really, would all this happen if the governments participated in more parties? Not indictably, because among these four, five political leaders, there would definitely be even one who would resist. The more parties in the government, the more conflict of interest there would be. Even if we assume that all parties are corrupt, when someone would go for a rushphet or a misagent, he would think twice and three times to do so, because in the government structure there would also be other parties who would not want to be wronged by such behaviour. And since I am talking about scandals, I should like to say that we have all admired the recent achievement of the SYRIZA Government with the indefinite postponement of its own - parody for 'SIEMENS'. It is the translation that told us and "cleaned up", proving that the two major parties, New Democracy and SYRIZA, that is, look like two drops of water. We heard again that the fifty-seat bonus was introduced to secure the majority rights. That's good reason! No reference to minority rights. In your opinion, should they not be represented in the House and there express the difference from your point of view? It's a huge arrogance to your obsession. And how can you be so sure that your percentages will continue to be at these high levels? You have seen the PASOK policies that have been driven. 42% of 2009 fell to 13% in 2012 and is now at 5%. So did SYRIZA, where from 4%, with lies and promises, was ejected to 36%. And now that the people have stopped eating hay, they've thrown him to 20% and the descent continues. With the experience of 2012 - because New Democracy referred to the government of the three parties - it should ask for a hundred seats bonus, so that there can be rulership. That doesn't make sense. We also hear of insolence. This is easily done by taking a simple look at all the countries of Europe. As of the end of the elections, a Marathon programme consultation between the parties begins. They are looking at the convergence points, what the divergence points are and where they can compromise. There is a reasonable period of time for a few weeks or a month and the new government emerges. This new government, because it is precisely the result of sincere programming cooperation, is more stable than any other one-party government of fewer seats. And to finish: Two parties are enough, New Democracy and SYRIZA, to make the most powerful government in Greece, as long as they leave micro-party policies and powerlessness at the edge. So where is insolence? You expect there to be elections on Sunday and Monday to come and be rounded to your chair! This is not how modern parliamentary democracy works, ladies and gentlemen. Apart from that, no doubt from time to time, the electoral law has become a real tool for circumventing the popular vote. The culmination is the "triphatic" of 1956, where the Democratic Union with 48.15% took only a hundred and thirty two seats, while the famous EPE with 47.38% took a hundred sixty-five seats and of course ruled according to the will of the people. Something similar happened in the 1961 elections, which in the conscience of the Greek people and in history were left as an election of violence and fraud, of which we still count how many trees they voted. These systems are defending the descendants of the EPE and their current satellites. We have heard these days that for the dictatorship of the 1936 Metaxas era, the simple analogue is more or less responsible. Not Metaxas or the king or the army, but the electoral law. That is to say, a great deal of democracy is responsible for the dictatorship! On the substance of the matter now, a Greek political leadership that appears united and determined internally and towards the outside and is in all likelihood capable of claiming fairer solutions, making a difference and preventing foreigners from enforcing their will with the divide and reigning, is the ideal thing for the time we are going through. We are now refusing to accept the vote in the seventeen, which, in my opinion, is unjustified, since no tricks are being used to bring the age limit down even further. And finally elections mean proposals and decisions for the future. And the future is more than seventeen years than a seventeen - year - old. So the first has an inalienable right to express its preferences by voting. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would like you to look a little back at the inner-party elections to show your President, see that the percentage of your voters aged eighteen to thirty-two was just 2.5% and understand that it is not a strand - as you are trying to tell us about youth - but you are rather the ones who are the ones who are wrong and you are removed from them. What will it say that teenagers do not have any necessary maturity? We believe that they are very mature and that seemed to be a paradox for the meeting of the House of Adolescents, in which the questions of our new colleagues were particularly topical, they contained level arguments, which showed a high degree of maturity, such as that of the Minister in question, Mr. Friends, came to a very difficult position. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to end the story, the candy, or else you want to say it, we have been under an incredible attack from the Civic Opposition in recent days. You are angry, gentlemen, in the New Democracy, because with the new electoral system there will be no possibility of your self-reliance. You're accusing us of simply proportionally supporting SYRIZA. What are you talking about? The SYRIZA with an enhanced analogue didn't come out? When you're second in polling, either on a simple analogue or on a reinforced analogue, you're not the first to be able to form a government anyway. Indeed, now that SYRIZA will vote for the simple analogues, it is a moral duty to resign from the government and to hold elections with the new system. You can't hang seating and rule with the bonus, which he renounces as deceived. Leaving SYRIZA to the government after the new electoral law was passed would be the highest morality for Mr. Tsipras and the entire government. You have, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, already seized past in the inconsistency of words and works. Do not proceed to another moral error that will be chasing you all your life. Vote for the new electoral system and see when the next elections are to take place. We support a solid request, our first programming position from the establishment of the Centro Association. Vassilis Leventis always said that democracy without just analogous. Our President has continued the tradition of the democratic centre, which has just called for analogy since the time of Alexander Papanastassiou. And now that this historic opportunity is given to us, we're going to throw it out of the trash, we're going to do some shit, and we're going to change our planning position? Are you serious? You think we're like you? That we came to the hobby policy and that we're going to build another party store to get our parliamentary compensation? You're Planning, gentlemen! We, as a Centro Association, are solid as stone in our demands. Because a consistent request means what remains unchanged as long as it remains unsatisfactory. The debate on simple analogues from us has begun. SYRIZA came to our position. Welcome his request for a simple analogue. Whatever was coming into our permanent programming position, he would be equally welcome. Whether Mr. Mitsotakis was in the government or Mr. Tsipras now, our preference for mere analogy would be the same. So, because SYRIZA happens - possibly from temporary political feasibility - to come to our positions, does it go on to say that we support SYRIZA? But, ten months now, we've voted against everything and followed other bills and you'll see how hard a stand we'll take. So let's finish the candy, it's already melted! I shall therefore appeal to the leaderships of the other parties, even now for the good of our country, over small-scale interests, to join us in the matter of mere analogy, and from tomorrow we all sit at the same table and plan a national salvation plan for the country. Since the political leaders are even a little patriots, I am sure they will find them among themselves. We are voting in favour of the provisions of the law convinced that we at least contribute to establishing a different method of consultation with the other parties, which we do not regard as enemies, ladies and gentlemen, but as potential partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Ioannis Balafas, Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor. Immediately afterwards, the list of speakers will be opened in principle. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I choose to communicate with the opposite points of view, not to remain in a logical parallel monologue, to communicate with the objections, benevolents or others, it is of no particular importance. Let me not mention all the issues, since time is limited, because despite my long experience with Spyros Lykoudi, it sets me very narrow limits. I will try to speak and say what we think about six opinions that have been heard, interesting otherwise, regardless of whether we disagree. From the age of six - I will not be able to talk about all - I am going beyond the question of time, because I am not given the opportunity and I am in second place. What is that view? It is the one that says: 'Have simple analogues, but what you bring is not just proportional. And it's not just proportional, because it has the 3% threshold." It must be clean. Just proportional 100% doesn't exist. And only when there are elections between Grevena and the second of Athens and Kefalonia until the 1st of Athens, with such a large difference of size, 100% simply proportional does not exist. Only if the whole of Greece is considered a region, then we can talk about quite simply proportionately. Because we are taking these issues very seriously, and because we are firmly involved in our principles and are trying with realism and honesty to deal with the current situation, we have proceeded with this bill in the direction of strengthening representativeness. Watch the title of the bill. We are talking about proportional representation of political parties, that is to say we make a choice, which we consider to be top, which contains two key issues, which constitute and express our philosophy. One is the simple proportional distribution of all three hundred seats and the other is the abolition of the 50 seats bonus. Some people go through this in the dungeon, as if it were nothing. This is the top choice. One must put one there, namely, if the distribution of three hundred seats in a single proportion and the abolition of the bonus is, or not, a top and important option in our newest political history. On this issue we seek greater consensus in this sense: if we - so we started - accepted the philosophy, the basic content of our opinion, a holistic view and take the two-seat seats, that is what we want, that is what we want, that is what we want. However, if this is impossible or it seems with the statements that it is not possible to obtain two hundred votes at first, then we are, frankly, driving in two phases. We do not say 'because that is not the case, we do nothing'. We insist on the essence of our proposal, which is the simple analogue to the distribution of seats and three hundred and the abolition of the bonus of fifty seats and, at the same time, we opt for a vote in the seventeen, which brings together a common denominator, namely a great consensus with the parties, with which the Prime Minister discussed before the drafting of this bill. In answer to why we say 'no' to other issues at this stage, it is because they do not collect satisfactory acceptance of the parties as a whole. On the other hand, we say that, in combination with constitutional reform, which starts to be discussed in the next few months, we will have a possibility of a wide debate on everything else and that is not an escape. It is a serious, realistic and measured approach to the issue. It is a step-by-step approach, of course, but not to forget something: for the first time in modern political history, we are discussing the implementation of simple analogues, not as a party of opposition. We have done so too many times in the past - and we have done well - to discuss the generalities of mere analogy. For the first time, however, a dream, a strategic objective, a democratic change, a genuine aim is being made. That is the basic thing, and that is how we need to be placed. For the first time, the Left and the wider progressive party have been able to act on simple analogues, and that is, in our view, a huge step forward. It is not our view, and it should not be the view of the progressive, the left-wing forces, either 100% of my opinion or 'I do not vote'. That's my opinion. I shall refer to a second point of view which has been heard. I would like, in particular, to say to the New Democracy and, in part, to Potami, which specifically listened to his rapporteur today - it was the first time that he said so, in committee, he did not mention the expression - to call the simple analogue 'totem'. He knows very well what 'toteme' means. I think that the Potami is'swamping' in its contradictions and ending up with the New Democracy, unfortunately. What does that view of the New Democracy actually say? Not just proportional. No, i.e., at maximum possible every time, if you see with realism things, proportional representation of political parties and citizens. It's clearly called it. We don't want just proportional. We are enemies of mere analogy. What does that mean? What is the essence of this view, in my opinion? It is the timeless, long tradition of the New Democracy and its ancestors, which are consistently defended - I would say - majority systems and systems of enhanced analogy, which, as the representative and rapporteur of the Union of Centres has rightly said, created situations such as 1956, 1961 and other previous years. Why is that? I said that to the committee. For on the part of these parties and, above all, of the New Democracy, there is fear - a political, of course, fear. There is fear in the face of the expansion of political participation and fear in the face of the blow of feeling, but also of the practice of exclusion. It is a fear that leads them to treat voters in two categories: ours and others. It is, finally, an elitist view that puts the people, the 'imperial people' at a distance - in political terms, I am speaking - and in particular those parts of the people who do not choose them. And when this doesn't pass, when it's not convinced, the lawlessness is discovered, the instability, the boogeyman. And it's not the first time. When we make a fuss about it, when we cannot deal with matters other than politics, we can convince ourselves, we can use the right word, the 'bulk' comes. Now he's the "Daddy" of insolence and instability. But let's see this thing. I shall refer to recent events. In September 2015, we had elections. What was on the eve of the elections? What did they tell us and they were pulling our fingers, journalists and others? We were told you wouldn't get self-resistance. None of the parties coming down to the election are willing to support you. It was then that the PASOK - it was very fresh to work with the New Democracy - supported government along with the New Democracy. The JRC was against saying that I don't support SYRIZA under any circumstances. They also said that the Independent Greeks would not enter the House. So what did they say? Don't vote for SYRIZA, who can't form a government. Vote others who will be able to form a government. But life brought it different, not as they wanted. Self-reliance, although we did not receive, but there was a collaboration between SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Economists - regardless of the formula - three parties, and a cooperation that proved to be good cooperation in the interests of our country and the interests of our country to this day. There was no insolence and let me say that this means, when you do not respond to this particular, political hypocrisy. In the end, the "candy" when all of this is not working, speaks of destruction. ‘Destructive the choice of simple analogy’. How did Mr. Mitsotakis say? 'Bloombomb on the foundations of democracy'. When you hear from Mr. Mitsotakis talking about a bomb on the foundations of democracy, you're buttoning. These, to raise tons, of course. For both the committee and so far there is a political debate invoking arguments, and so on, a serious debate. The tons are not rising for no reason, and they are doing well. Let me say one more thing. They are not systems, electoral laws and, more generally, systems, which relate to procedures, to the widest sense of the term, which either save or destroy societies. Societies are saved or destroyed by political initiatives, political choices made by each government. Another view, at least in this position, I would like to put, by addressing the Members of the Democratic Alliance, in PASOK and in the views developed by Mr Scandalides, whom I have listened very carefully and with whom, on several points, I agree with. I would like, in particular, to refer to PASOK, because these colleagues, very recently, a year ago, prepared and tabled a proposal for a law, which proposes about what we are proposing on the analogous basis. Even the fragmentation of the large regions did not exist in this bill. I must say, therefore, that I did not understand where Mr Scandalidis's proposal, the Democratic Alliance, is, the right reason and the consistency with what he said until recently. Their argument that "there are fragments of what you say" or "is too hasty", to see it. The Prime Minister discussed with six political leaders to reach agreement in order to avoid any conflict. At meetings with the Chiefs there was something very important, most important of all: Mr. Mitsotakis, the chief of the Officer's Vice-Population, expressed a total refusal of his party to the analogue and the abolition of the bonus. "I don't want analogy. I would like to see an enhanced and 'early bread'. It therefore cut roots, in my opinion. So on this issue, what do you have to discuss further? Where was there any possibility of further discussion? I repeat to the friends of the Democratic Alliance what I said before: the analogy to be voted on for the first time, so that it can be implemented, and I do not think it is worth the effort to kick it. Here too, the responsibilities of all of us, of course yours, but also the responsibilities of the wider progressive forces. And because the one-party governments now seem to be, in this historic phase, a past, we have to deal with and deal with the matter: a party, a larger, torso - say it as you want - and cooperation, now we have three, we may have four parties. Sure, he can. There's no dead end. In democracy, as we have said many times, there are no deadlocks. Let the system of mere analogy itself, simple analogues, facilitate processes, strengthens forces that want cooperation, convergence, consensus, on the basis of specific political and programming positions. One more thing: it makes it easier for the simple analogue to match the political scene, the provision of the political forces, with reality. There is no doubt that there are many differences overlap. They turn to be in a party of powers that suffocate, not just the fear of non-election is forcing them. Analogous, objectively speaking, facilitates greater authenticity, more authenticity of the views and any convergences or disputes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Undersecretary, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u68	I'll just say one more word and then I'll be done. The previous President-in-Office told me for 15 minutes and I was prepared for fifteen. One last thing, and I'm done with it. The famous view of purposes. I also told the committee, by addressing Mr Voridis, but basically all the colleagues in the New Democracy, that in this matter, the alleged purpose is not to judge the odds. Can't you really imagine there might be some who stay loyal to principles, ideas, values, commitments? We're not all the same in this place. How to do it. That is why I said the expression 'don't judge the strangest ones themselves'. That is to say, it is appropriate that we do so because we will lose the next election and New Democracy will not have the bonus. What is Mr. Mitsotakis afraid of? He's afraid he's gonna be the first power to find no partners? Don't be afraid of that. If he has to be afraid of something and it is his problem, it is that in these elections he will not be the first again. Remember - I will not say much - the forecasts of the referendum this summer, which spoke about fifty - fifty. Also, remember the forecasts for a single-and-a-half unit in New Democracy on the eve of the September elections when we were, as SYRIZA, seven and a half points ahead of New Democracy. But - and I conclude, Mr President - all this will be judged by the Greek people, when the time comes, with their wisdom. And we have full respect and confidence in the crisis and the vote of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u71	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u72	After each placement of a Minister under the Rules of Procedure, the party parliamentary representative shall be entitled to request the floor for two minutes. Because Mr. Kourublis wasn't posted, we transferred our speech tomorrow. But the Deputy Minister, Mr Balafas, has been placed, and so I ask you to speak, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u73	You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u74	Mr Balafa, Minister, you have addressed the Democratic Incorporation, asking us to explain why we have changed our position - in your opinion - this year in relation to the electoral law. Firstly, I would like to say to you, Minister, that you have an issue with the default of promises, which start with seismicism, the thirteenth pension and arrive to the last, so that you can be the last to ask the Democratic Assent on a matter of consistency, one year or another. I would remind you, Mr Balafa, that following Mr Tsipras' meeting with Mrs Gennimata, when she called the political leaders, the Prime Minister, Mrs Gennimata made a statement: that Democratic Assent does not pass electoral law in instalments. We want a whole, full text, which regulates all issues relating to electoral law. As you have said today, and as evidenced by the text before us as your legislative initiative, you have brought law into instalments. You spoke a moment ago, saying that in a second stage you might bring something else and so on. We have told you that since then, with the President of PASOK and the leader of the Democratic Alliance, that we are not voting on it! Thirdly, you are doubting parties and politicians who have an opinion on intergovernmentalism. We, for example, link with our proposal to block the blockade of government, giving the first party a premium if it exceeds a certain percentage. You are not telling me: How are you addressing the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kurubli, who, on 16 May, said himself that, in a mere proportional manner, the country is not governed? Answer them first and then address us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Loverder. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u77	Please, this cannot be done. I will give you the floor immediately after you hear something I want to say to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I will not speak for a minute. I want to place myself on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u79	Something you want to say, which will cause a response. That's well known. We must all respect each other. A hundred and fifty-six colleagues have been written to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u80	I agree. I won't talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Undersecretary, instead of nine minutes, spoke 15. There has been an answer and there will be an answer to it. It can't be done like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u82	No, Mr. President. I would like to ask you whether there is such a provision in the Rules of Procedure invoked by Mr Lovers. If there is no, remove this time from his speech. I don't remember that being in the Rules of Procedure. But the stress you are displaying is tragic! I want an answer from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Loverdus said that because the Minister of the Interior was not talking now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u84	Is it in the Rules of Procedure, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u85	Mr Colleague, you either want to reach agreement or not. If we go with the formalities of the Rules of Procedure, I had to interrupt Mr Balafas at nine and a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u86	So there's no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u87	We must have the comfort of having an interesting conversation. Please help us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u88	Let Mr. Loverdos show it back then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u89	And Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Ministers and everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, we are opening the list of speakers in principle. The first is Mr Antonis Balomemakis, Member of the SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes. Please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u90	I shall be consistent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u91	I say again that we are a hundred and fifty-six colleagues. If we want the latter to speak for seven minutes and not three, let us have the respect from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, in the long list of destructive forecasts, through which opposition policy has often been engaged, the early lamentations have been added to what the proportional representation of the parties, which this draft law proposes, will allegedly bring about. Thus, between the endless and constantly disguised "will", "you will see what will happen", "you will see that the evaluation will not be closed" and the others, which have been the permanent enthusiasm of the colleagues for some time now, there is also fear added, i.e. the fear of powerlessness. A ghost would say that it is being deceived above Greece, that the rule of law. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that those who, in the context of the public dialogue on the introduction of proportional representation of the parties in Parliament, propose - possibly in good faith - the fear that stable governments will not be able to form - commit the following two decisive mistakes: Firstly, they consider that the political charter will remain the same after the establishment of a proportionate way of representing the political parties. And, secondly, they ignore the changes that the constitutional changes which the government intends to propose towards a new constitutional framework, changes which will enhance the participation of the electorate in the form of elections in which they are going to be closer to direct democracy, changes which will create new institutions of insight into parliamentary dialogue, i.e. a rewarding of political cooperation. The new political landscape will be radically different from that of today. That is why - in my opinion - it is a great mistake for those who judge tomorrow in terms of today, as did the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who has attempted to implement the proposal, which we are debating today, in order to draw negative conclusions. The term "italisation" which has been heard is a term which, on the lips of the supporters of the enhanced electoral laws, is tantamount to destruction. However, no disaster occurred in this country. On the contrary, the existence of proportionality has often been and has contributed to democratic outlets in difficult situations. It is not a small thing in a democratic country at the heart of Europe that its Prime Minister and the country should be murdered so fiercely in the unavoidable crisis without sacrificing democratic freedoms and popular rights. Because Erdogan has recently come out of judgment, but see, at what price. This is the main difference between a consensual democracy and the authoritarian model of governance, the creators and servants of whom for many years have been the various scorning electoral systems. I would add that in recent years the understanding of political formations, often unfavourable to their programmes, has ceased to be a political paradox. The terminology of 'irreversible alliances', which was so scandalous a couple of decades ago, today is no surprise. This is, of course, the case of our country, starting at the peak of the crisis in 2012. The balance sheet of that first party cooperation, given the negative consequences it had for the country, is not considered positive. It was not for this reason, however, that the idea of understanding different political formations, but for the policy pursued. And those with ease who are in favour of this draft law fearing insolence, should consider how the political confrontation of the near future will be, when the new constitutional institutions are beginning to function, when citizens' possibilities of intervention on the central theme have been strengthened and when parliamentism has acquired the new features that the government's initiatives intend to give. The new landscape will dominate political integrations on the basis of programme commitments expressly announced to the Greek people before the elections. Party formations will have been explicitly committed in terms of possible partnerships with specific parties or parties associations. The price of defaulting their commitments will meet the popular disapproval, the expression of which the new institutions will act decisively. This new landscape New Democracy reads it with deforming glasses. The only thing she seems to care about is to maintain the erratic myth of the government that is waiting for. It is a myth, which, assuming that it is based - which certainly does not have, but is a dream of summer night - is definitively embodied in the reorientation that will occur as a result of the democratic political divisions that the government intends to bring about and bring about. In the current anguish of the New Democracy, in order not to apply a proportionate system of representation of political parties, I also add the fear of losing important powers from the various shaping parties of the right and the right-wing political spectrum. Invoking the wise people is not only suitable for election balconies. We all have to prove that we mean it, that we trust the Greek people's crisis. The government does that. It remains to be proved, and these political formations that have been consistent with the timeless folk demand for more democracy. And if, ladies and gentlemen, the conservative party wants to embrace the worst traditions of the right-wing political area, including the tri-phase and elections to violence and fraud in 1961. In such a political environment, however, there is absolutely no place in the centre-left area, as of course the area of the Communist Party has no place, which is an emblematic and emblematic party on the issue of simply analogous. Many historical officials from these areas, including the Central Left and the Communist Party, some of whom are politically active, have fought against authoritarianism and anti-democratic choices, which are fatally characterising the one-party governments. This draft law is only the beginning of a long process for the country's institutional regeneration. Of course, many issues are not regulated. If they were regulated without dialogue and a more specific study, it would perhaps be a negative event. I am referring to the issues of partitioning and the issues of internal party operation and the vote of the homosexuals, which require dialogue and a long time. I see that my time is running out, and because I want to be consistent, I'm omissioning something. Ladies and gentlemen, a line goes through the opposing views and truly distinguishes the political forces, between those who are struggling to maintain a consistently failed situation of things and those powers that - consistent with themselves - create, envision a society with open horizons, where political representation will require programmes, shocks that are visible in front of the people and a broad possibility of civil society intervening in a balanced and ultimately corrective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Loverdo, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u96	I request the floor for a ten-second clarification. The subject of the Rules of Procedure has been raised, but I am not asking for it because I am going to speak for a long time. Mr Colleague, please see Rule 64(2) and do not give us any suggestions for the Rules of Procedure. Read first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u97	Mr Constantine Vlassis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, these opinions seem to be fashionable lately. You'll allow me to put a little bit of a rhetoric on this. So I say to you that 'action states the priorities'. I know, of course, that the words of Mahatma Gandhi may not bring the momentum of other expressors who are envisioning unrest. But I think they are absolutely representative of the draft law we are called upon to discuss tonight. It turns out that in Greece, which is still in the midst and vortex of the economic crisis, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government put the change of electoral law as a priority, on the pretext that everything is done for the good of the world. I imagine that your intentions are as inappropriate and in the light of the public interest as the ones that have led to the swinging of pensions, such as those that have pushed you into the proud negotiation, which has damaged the country with tens of billions, such as those that have brought health, education and all other areas to the limit of the collapse. The new electoral law has little to do with the prosperity of this country and its citizens. It is your priority, because it is simply related to your political survival. Every day that passes, your government is staggering. More and more, the basis of your voters is spreading. You all know that, those at least who are still in cafeterias, because many of you do not see you going around much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u99	You're not around.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u100	Don't worry, don't worry. I see too much stress on your faces! That is why you are rushing to pass a electoral law that will ensure your existence at tomorrow's political stage as a second party. This is what is killing you, the involvement in power and the disobedience of the New Democracy to exercise, as it alone can, the responsible governance of this place. Besides, if the substantial change in the electoral law was so interested in you and your motives were really inappropriate, you would have pursued it after the first election. Here we were Flevaris, March, April, May. Why didn't you bring the electoral law, since you so badly wanted it? But then the bonus was for you. At that time, you were attracted to the first party's premium. Now, unfortunately, it scares you. So you are putting your party tomorrow first and you are putting aside tomorrow's homeland, because the abolition of the bonus for the first party - which, incidentally, is not equivalent to the simple analogue, as you want to believe - at this stage only problems can arise in the country, unless you think that we have solved our problems, that we have become Switzerland and that it will be easy to survive a four-party government. So at a time when the country is struggling to find its way back - with you rather angomaha, it is not struggling - towards growth and stability, a strong government needs at last, which will immediately take critical decisions and will certainly not go to referendums, which the next day will be abducting. You, therefore, prefer to survive politically, risking that Greece might be led into power. The same is true of the right to vote at seventeen, i.e. basically sixteen. No one doubted the maturity of the modern seventeen-year-old. But should the parties stay outside the schools? Should we let our young people and young people focus on their study of the pan-Hellenic exams? Unless you think it's serious, that the election talks should start from schoolcourts. You know most of you. Obviously, not all of this is concerned in order to catch your missing votes. I am sorry, but you will still not catch them, because if you were working in the good of our young people, then you would consider the New Democracy's proposal for the right to vote of the relatives, who could finally vote at their place of residence. Unless you want to tell us that the thousands of brilliant minds that have been hosted to seek out a better tomorrow, they don't want the good of their homeland. Or are the Greeks in the ends of the world not in love with Greece and are they unable to contribute with their vote for a better tomorrow? Because it happens to maintain close relations with the family, I inform you that through their experience and performances, but mainly because of their unselfish love for Greece, they are able to think even more fully and decide more correctly than the Greeks who live in our country. Equally inconsistent, of course, you also appear on the issue of partitioning Athens in three separate constituencies. Weren't you again yelling at fighting the big interests? Here is the opportunity, but unfortunately this opportunity will be lost like everyone else. So all this proves your opportunistic and micropolitical thought. All of this proves that in your worthy system votes and percentages prevail. But don't deceive yourself. No electoral law and no allegedly just proportional will guarantee you, because simply your electoral law does not bring any change to HPAI that you have proudly abolished, to the pensions you have proudly cut, to the difficult everyday life of the Greeks whom you have proudly deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Ilias Kasiri, from the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u102	The Golden Dawn will not vote for Tsipra's new electoral law, because this law has nothing to do with either democracy or just proportionally. It's just the epitome of opportunism, of civilism and of a man's battering ambition, who wants to remain stricken with power, even though he has dissolved the country within such short time. All this is being done today in plenary session, with the sole aim of disorientating the Greeks from the major problems. That's what SYRIZA and ANEL government do. He's throwing the ball at the platform. While Greece's national property is literally dived, while everything is being sold out, while illegal immigrants have flooded the country, they discuss all the channels what the Gender Fofi will do, what Stavros Theodorakis and Jeffrey Papandreou are doing today was the first face to the channels of intercom. There is a debate on no substance for disorientation. Golden Dawn, under no circumstances will it support this abortion. As when we were still in prison, we had given a kick and shot the anti-national government Samara - Venizelos, so we will also do in the case of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. You're all against us and we're against everyone. I have an answer to some of the policies that appeared on the channels and said that we had found them with SYRIZA and that we have made underground agreements. If they're men, they all go out public and admit they're humiliated, liars and slanders! The Golden Dawn, as I say again, the Samara - Venizelos government, will also throw the Tsipra - Kammenos conflict, because we are the only force that resists the resurrected establishment. SYRIZA's only tail is New Democracy, which voted for the third memorandum, giving SYRIZA life and drinking the blood and millions of our fellow citizens. The New Democracy voted for all the anti-national legislation concerning the divestment of Greece's national wealth. You're Tsipra's helmet. You, as patriots, even voted to create Islamic mosques in the heart of Athens. Your president has voted for the symbiosis pact to marry Mitsos and Kitso. You supported the corruption of morals by a corrupt government. You're SYRIZA's only crutch! If, I say again, those who slandered us and went out on the channels and said that we have found them with SYRIZA, they have the least emotiveness and they are at least men, get out in public and say they are liars and slanders! I heard with great interest SYRIZA's representative talking about democracy, saying they bring this law to support democracy in Greece. Recalls SYRIZA's spokesman - the President-in-Office at this time will remember them - I was coming to ask a topical question in the House in handcuffs, once a year, and when elected parliamentarians were in prison, because some time in 2013 the Golden Dawn had taken many votes, and that ruined the "soup" of the political system. So when a Parliament with two hundred ninety Members operated, where was democracy? Today, of course, the rulings, although I was released, have set me a term that says: "Do not go to party events. Although you are a MP, you cannot go to talk to party events." We are indicted today by subtracting the right to public speech. That gave some neo-democrats the opportunity to say that we made a deal, he says, and we will vote for the law of Tsipras! But are you idiots? We were in jail, and we dropped your government! Is it possible to chew Golden Dawn with a subjugation? We in the Golden Dawn, with prisons and trials and whatever you stand against us, will be present in the House, in order to represent the Greek people and to support the interest of the Greek nation and of the country! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] SYRIZA and New Democracy of course are moving united against Greece. I heard a terrible argument from the other side, from the New Democracy. They're afraid, he says, of powerlessness. Indeed, he said this, the executing parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, who was in Karatzafair. When the Karatzaferis politically died, he went to Samaras. When Samaras politically died, he went to Mitsotakis. When Mitsotakis is done, we don't know where he's going. He can go to Tsipras or anywhere else. You have no problem with insolence. You find them fine. As you found them with PASOK, you will soon be able to find them with SYRIZA and lead us to this great Memorandum of Understanding that they want to see foreign power centers. They forget, however, that in this case whether there is a bonus in the electoral law or not, Remuneration will be Golden Dawn. I keep from what the President of PASOK, who played the channels in the last few days, a great truth, that Golden Dawn is the regulatory factor in Greece. We may be a third party today, but soon - you have all accepted it - we will regulate developments, we will be Dedicated Opposition and we will claim power. Golden Dawn has tabled concrete amendments, concrete additions to this draft law, which, if you really believed in democracy and the expression of popular sovereignty, would bring them here to the vote. I am speaking first of all of the right to vote for the relatives. You do not, however, bring this amendment to a vote, because the relatives have some defects. Firstly, they are patriots, they are nationalists and they will massively support the Golden Dawn. Secondly, the homosexuals do not see ‘MEGA’. Parents are mostly informed from the free internet. So they don't eat the spoon that feeds their interactive citizens. Thirdly - and I am speaking not only of the Greek citizens who have been expelled from the country because of the anti-national laws you have voted on in recent years, who have literally destroyed the social fabric in Greece - these Greeks hate the memorandum. So they're not going to vote either SYRIZA or New Democracy and you'd see Golden Dawn ejected if these Greek citizens had the right to vote, these our compatriots. Of course, SYRIZA does not welcome the vote of the 17-year-olds, because the Greek youth massively supports the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We are the Greek youth, we have the future of Greece on our side. Of course, the third amendment proposed by the Golden Dawn - which is ruining many, of course, but at some point, with a genuine national government in Greece - is finally to reduce the number of Members of Parliament to two hundred. It is not possible in a country of ten million to vote on a three hundred-member political system. Immediately, therefore, and the number of Members to the two. I close with the report both co-pilots have made - both Tsipras and Kammenos - on the 3% issue. Indeed, in an interview in a Sunday newspaper, Kammenos opened this issue for the future, as Tsipras did, when he was invited first track table to Papahela on the intertwined Alafouzou channel. So we consider it ethnic-progressive to touch at any stage either today or tomorrow or in one month, the 3% rate. This percentage has been set up to exclude Turkish agents from the Greek Parliament who, by the way, are preparing on 24th of the month to divert Xanthi and the Golden Dawn has arranged and with legal action this disgrace will stop. If you touch 3%, you are accountable to the nation, because you serve foreign powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Michael Jellonis from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, the Greek people have a memory and a judgment to know where they will provide mass support. Ladies and gentlemen, developments in Europe and in the neighbouring country demonstrate the need for a strong Greece. A prerequisite for this is the functioning and strengthening of democratic institutions in the country. In this context, we must also see the electoral law and constitutional law. Is this the purpose of SYRIZA - ANEL for the discussion of electoral law in summer? No, ladies and gentlemen. Since SYRIZA - ANEL co-government has now failed all the electoral promises for the abolition of HNVIA, for the sketching of the monuments, for the professionals, for the farmers, for the farmers, it must now communicate in a way, disorientate public opinion from the big and hot problems, because now your policies have direct effects on Greek citizens, from the changes in employment, the absurd taxes that have brought to despair all Greeks, the reductions in wages and pensions, which are taking place on the ATMs every day and trying to prove by changing the agenda, that it produces work. Once again, however, your work is half. The proposals are half selective and opportune, and once again reinforce the argument that you are trying to ensure that you remain in power. All because a year and a half after the takeover of power, SYRIZA remembered his left-wings and said to do something about it. After what you have done in this period, the standing authorities of the Left adapt for you selectively to your party and government needs. In fact, the other authorities on the left, the collapsing with the nationalist right, the fraud of the referendum, the unambiguous state of the days you systematically set up and the attempt to monitor the information is to apply these principles? The change in electoral law - and if you want to discuss it seriously - is not done with fast track procedures or with a glue of legislative initiatives. Because the place does not have a matter of law but of changing power, strengthening participation, cohesion, social justice and the voice of the citizen. After you want reforms or modernisation, why don't you move on to deeper areas and changes? We should sit down, as the Democratic Reconciliation proposed, all the parties to the constitutional arch, make the intergroup and discuss how the simple analogy will be applied and that the Constitution should be reviewed. Because the abolition of the bonus does not in itself ensure a more proportional representation. It can contribute, yes. However, if we want simple analogues, we need to take other factors into account. So why do you not accept the proposal of the Democratic Integration and of redecorating the regions so as to redefinite the constituencies, to co-finance a new electoral charter, which will ensure as far as possible that the regions are represented, which will increase transparency, which will prevent conflicting phenomena and make the relationship between citizens and their representatives clear? Also 3% for party entry in the House is a necessary and necessary condition, otherwise partitioning the already fragmented, fragmented political system will take place. The Democratic Reconciliation considers it necessary and necessary to have 3%, since this is how the institution of Parliament and the representation of the data in the current Treaties are protected to a large extent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a positive point for the vote at seventeen, since young people with their technology, information and maturity can participate in the electorate. However, at this point I would like to make a comment. Yes, the young people to join the electorate. We're totally in agreement. However, with all this, you who are struggling for a more proportional representation and the strengthening of democracy as you say, should think, how will you raise awareness of the existing electorate, which you, with your political terminology, have led to full apathy and inactivation when in the last elections of September the abstention recorded the highest percentage since the post-population era? Another very important issue that we have raised as a Democratic Incorporation is for Democrat Hellenism. Why should we deprive everyone who has Greek citizenship and citizenship and who wants to vote, be written in the country's polls and make electoral lists as well as with the heterodians? We have also tabled a proposal for this. Ladies and gentlemen, the change in electoral law is not an opportune process. It should not be a regularity, because in the future it will lead the country into adventures and deadlocks, as the relevant Minister rightly said in May. For the Democratic Integration the change of electoral law is based on a deeper conception, which has as its main objective and objective democracy, the strengthening of popular sovereignty, the finding of a solution to broader acceptance, a fair and proportional electoral system, which will not only be a single use to serve purposes, a comprehensive and functional system, away from the normalization of the adoption of individual provisions with doses as a supermarket. Change of electoral law is an act of political responsibility which, apparently, does not concern you, because if you were really concerned, you would have been detached from the political games that you are playing with New Democracy today, you would introduce the Intergroup and you would be tabling an integrated proposal after thorough processing. This is our position, that is what we are seeking and expecting, even at the very last moment, because the data have changed with the crisis, all in the forums, finally to change the political system and, in particular, the rulers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Unlike all the other parties that have been engaged in a badly-famous market, on the occasion of their electoral law, and who have changed their previous positions, depending on what the people are currently serving their political pursuits and their tactics, the JRC has kept a consistent attitude, a attitude of principle, defending the long-term position that the only electoral system that can accurately capture the electoral correlation, namely what the people are voting on, even in this urban democracy, which you are all deposing, is the mere proportional, simple and inappropriate analogue, without bonus, without a limit of entry into Parliament, just like the proposal of a law tabled by SYRIZA in March 2012, rather than the caricature, the'mony' simple analogue that the government brings today, which retains the limit of entry to 3% on a number of grounds for national and other issues, which the government does not represent, but the government does not represent. In this respect, therefore, the JRC judges today's electoral law. As our rapporteur has said, we will not vote for him in the first place. We will vote on the articles on the vote at seventeen, the abolition of the bonus, as will the directly applicable article. We will also table an amendment to abolish the 3% plaque. From there on, the JRC will not participate in this entire bazaar, in this whole game of disorientation, which is being set up to hide the real problems and the real dividends between the political forces, nor will it give the electoral law greater importance than the people themselves, because others are the hot issues that concern the people. The tax storm, pension cuts, redundancies, unemployment, what will be coming from September, with the second assessment which gives rise to new overturns in labour and trade rights. The people are also concerned with developments in our region, which are escalating dangerously, on the basis of the latest events in Turkey, but also with the decisions of the NATO Summit signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. On these issues, however, which determine the present and future of our people, neither hostage fights in the House are there any cliffs in the television panels, nor the wars of communications between the parties, nor any of them. Contrary to these issues, there is unanimity, there is a complete match, since this is imposed by domestic and international bosses, this requires the objective of recovery, the development of capitalist profits, with the people at the corner of choosing the manager of anti-grass policy every time. Because, therefore, there is a cartel in the crucial strategic issues, political confrontation is taking place in individual. As far as electoral law is concerned, all other political forces, both those who agree with changes in electoral law and those who disagree, are placed under the following single criterion. What is that criterion? It is how the maximum possible governmental stability can be achieved in order to implement this policy. The New Democracy, which feels to be the first in the next elections, defends the old model of the one-party government with bonuses. And SYRIZA is talking about the need for wider consensus with other parties, which, as the Prime Minister said in his recent interview, will share the responsibility of government policy - anti-popular policy, we - and they will ensure the consent of the people to this policy. Hence, SYRIZA's best friends with the Euro-Socialist party in Europe, hence today's resurrection and flirting with various factors, such as Papandreou and Kouvelis, which were in opposition when SYRIZA spent fourteen generations. Indeed, those who stand up for the multi-party governments have this unbelievable argument. If - says - there were multi-party governments in Greece, the crisis would have been avoided. Mercy! Like in Italy or in other countries where there were more proportional electoral laws, which existed such multi-party governments, capitalist economic crisis and all its consequences, at the expense of workers, did not hit those countries! So your criterion despite the different versions is the same, it's uniform. Government stability to the unregulated implementation of the unregulated restructuring and manipulation of the people through the disarmament of the urban political system. In this respect, therefore, the attitude towards electoral law is not a criterion for the separation of political forces or for a political force of philosophical, progressive, because there may well be political forces defending a more proportional electoral law - even clean, we say, simply proportional - and at the same time these forces have positions and proposals, which are deeply reactionary. The most characteristic case is the Association of Centres, which, from morning until night, prescribes reactionary, anti-grassroots proposals to the detriment of workers, even measures on labour or pensions, which the capital does not dare to say openly and at the same time supports the government's electoral law. Or what Mr Balafas said earlier. It is a pity - it says - that progressive forces are kicking the chance to implement the abolition of the bonus. So if PASOK voted for the government's electoral law, would it become a progressive force and receive forgiveness for all the policies it has implemented in previous years? That's where the government's argument leads. To acquit such forces and actually to pave the way for partnerships in the next period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the JRC does not consider any electoral law a catalyst of philosophical developments and will confront and reveal as much as it can all these masts, accompanying the government's proposal for supposedly more democracy or for young people coming to the center because it gives the vote to seventeen. In the present political system, in this rotten, exploiting system, there can also be more proportional electoral laws, and at the same time political rights to rule terrorism and authoritarianism in the workplace, to strengthen repression, to pass through the eye and to vote for laws that remove rights, leading the people into bankruptcy, leading these young people who are trying to confuse them, at the same time as digging their pit, with a vote in seventeen. The JRC therefore rejects this hypocrisy, the fraud of urban democracy. What is needed today to really change the negative correlation of power, to change at the expense of parties meeting on the road to capital and the European Union, is a working people's movement that is strong, rooted in the workplace, a social alliance that will fight for both direct demands and for overthrowing radicals in the economy and power. In this perspective, there is a need for a collapsing around a stronger JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, my colleague. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, you will allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Carras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u110	I would like to speak on the position of my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u111	There's been a reference to your party. These are common in the parliamentary procedure, it was not aggressive, it was a criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u112	I will only refer to this and say that the report is out of the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u113	Please, in your speech you can answer. Thank you so much for helping. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u114	There is one truth that the attitude of a political force to political law does not categorise the political forces. That's clear. But it corresponds to the political forces vis-à-vis the issue of popular sovereignty, in terms of political equality, that of citizens, in relation to their political power, and that is of great importance. On Thursday night, when we vote on the heart of the electoral law, which will be voted on in a simple analogue way, we will have contributed, as many as we vote, a historic section and we will have contributed to the regeneration of the country's political system. We will have made a leap, not a simple step, on matters of democratisation in line with popular sovereignty. In other words, we will contribute to the consolidation of equality between citizens and equality policy, which, together with the enlargement of the electoral base, can only bring positive results to our society. I would like here to highlight a few issues on this issue of the eligibility of speeches. The representative of the New Democracy spoke in relation to the vote in the seventeen and mentioned various examples that they did so, that they did not. These same countries did not mention them when we discussed the electoral system. That's where he forgot them. So everyone tells us or anyone can say what is of interest to him in his political logic. In any case, however, we have to agree - and at least that is how we put it - that the electoral system is not a tool to achieve micro-political targets for the respective ruling party. We must, however, treat it as a tool for equality as a tool for popular sovereignty. It does not safeguard it on its own, but it is an important step, and that is why our government is making this incision. So we're not bringing an election law into action. Mr President, I see time in the table and thank you very much. You've given me 20 minutes. Five people told me. I, if you'd like, I can do it 20, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u115	Minister, I was surprised to see it, but the paper that has come to me says 20 minutes. I had to keep it. I'm sorry, you're right. You'll be in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u116	It would be like talking to one of the large meetings we held in favour of simply proportional, when we were in the opposition, or when there were great discussions with high-profile universities standing there, because simply proportionally safeguards the equivalence of citizens. But I think we should be much more substantial. We are therefore not bringing an electoral law to our measures, but to measures of the rights of the citizen and of the Greek society, to measures of the mature requirements of the present, in a prospect of regeneration of the citizens' interest in politics. It's true, the simple analogue will overthrow the political system as we know it. It will push to reorders, it will push to completely different political behaviours of political parties and cultures, but it will also promote a new relationship between the citizen itself and the political system. So I say that when on one hand you put popular sovereignty and you are measured in terms of the electoral system with it and on the other hand with the argument of intergovernmentalism, you put what is going down and possibly by mistake, the spokesman of the New Democracy at the end of his speech. He probably wanted to say: 'When we have the government', which we say is not going to happen, they say it is going to happen and he said 'we will have the power'. This is the basis of a reasonable, electoral system for power. That's why we've got reinforced analogues, we've got a lot of cobbled-up laws. That is why we have - let us say this - MPs here who have been elected on average with twenty thousand votes and Members elected on average with fifty thousand votes. He knows what he says, because government power has become accustomed to in this place having a strong influence on political power. You have now had a lot of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u117	We interrupted at three minutes and gave you three more, that is six minutes instead of five. Don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u118	The political authority had remembered that it had a strong influence and a strong involvement with economic power. If we want to make a distinction, on the one hand, we have a path towards popular sovereignty and, on the other, we have a course to take over power. I think it would be very important, not just to pass a electoral law, but to pass the country's Constitution itself and to go through all its forms, contrary to what exists today. What do we have today? Nowadays, we have in the local government a dominocentric system, in the regional government of the regional district system. Today we have in the central political system a pre-central system. So in the process of social and political hierarchy collectiveity is lost, not only as an expression, as an opinion, but as a decision. This also gives us new logic of effectiveness. Independence, ladies and gentlemen, does not come from the mere proportional and electoral system. It comes from the weakness of even the most populous parliamentary group, to manage and cut into the things that concern the people themselves. In this direction, we must move forward. So strong governments will be the ones that will be made on a specific political programme, which will be voted on by society itself, with the equivalence of citizens, and these powerful governments will play their final role, in a state that can function in the basics and not leave the pencils down, whenever we go to elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mavrotas from the river has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. On July 21, 2015, just a year ago, the President of the Potamio proposed, for words: "To discuss the new electoral law openly with a view to abolishing the bonus of the fifty seats for the first party." The answer from the government never came. Then, you see, SYRIZA was the first in polling. Who turns back a beneficial gift, even when he is ready to make use of it, despite what he promised? So now SYRIZA comes in and abominations this device, the bonus of the fifty seats, because of which many of his SYRIZA colleagues are now in Parliament. What changed in a few months? On the one hand, we have a government that has deliberately remembered to change the pieces of the electoral law that suit it, ignoring other more importantly, such as the fragmentation of the big regions and the vote on the Greeks abroad. On the other hand, we have a Dedicated Opposition that thinks conscientiously, because the excess bonus of the fifty seats is at the moment convenient. Is there a consensus? We will insist. The river's proposal for electoral law with the proportional bonus, that is, a seat for every 2% that the first party takes, is the best in the present circumstances. It best meets the two criteria to be met by electoral law, i.e. representativeness and governance. The simple analogue only satisfys the first, representativeness, while the excessive and rigid bonus of the fifty seats only the second, the rulership. The best combination of these two criteria is the proposal of the River and we therefore insist that it be adopted by both SYRIZA and New Democracy. After six and a half years of crisis, we seem to have understood nothing. The electoral law, if it came in full and with plenty of time for consultation, would be an ideal field of converging, which our country needs to get out of the crisis. It could work as a field of confidence-building measures between the parties in the European orientation. One step back, one step back, to make the country leap forward. Unfortunately, however, the conflict seems to be taking the lead once again and not the composition. The points of disagreement will be maximised and not the convergence points. Party settlements will enter over national interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the mere analogous to which much talk is not panacea. He claimed, primarily, in Greece from 1926 to about the 1950s, giving stillborn and short-lived governments. At the moment, simple analogue only serves SYRIZA's late logic. With today's demographic data, simple proportionality would require four or five parties to consent to create a government if they hadn't found the first two. So you understand how unstable the government will be when the declared will depend on satisfying the wishes and the government's last partner. In other words, such a government will be a hostage of government blackmail and not a result of programmatic shocks. If SYRIZA is really cut so much for the consents that simple analogues are supposed to promote, why would he not listen to us when we told them last August about consents and convergences? What prevents him from applying them even now? So your consensual speech is not convinced when you can apply him in practice, but you don't. But let us see what this fragmentary electoral law does not contain. It does not contain the fragmentation of the large regions. The great unrepresentative regions are the joy of the canalarch. And now, it looks like we're going to have new rulers, Minister's decision. In order not to be upset by Mr Leventis, the fragmentation of the large regions, in which the 'glass' is a Member, is unfortunately referred to as the parliamentary bells. The vote on Greek foreigners who have left in recent years, also remains a summer night dream for thousands of children who have left abroad in recent years, close to the four hundred and twenty-seven thousand, according to a recent report from the Bank of Greece. Otherwise, the government is mourning for Brain Drain, for brain leaking, but it doesn't do anything to give them a voice. They're hospitable, not ostracized. Potami has proposed three amendments concerning the proportional bonus, the vote on Greeks abroad and the vote at seventeen years. I would like to give a parentheses for the vote in seventeen years: we need to align the age limit. For example, the draft sports law, which goes on, says you're a part of a sports club if you've booked the eighteenth year of your age. I mean, you're mature to vote for a country's government in seventeen years, but you're not mature to vote for command at a local sports club in the bottom of the Petromagula. That makes sense? Oh, no. On the other hand, we have to be very careful not to become high school party feuds, as the universities did. The river against its party interest, as the rapporteur, as he has said, is of course inappropriate, simply proportional, to choose the national interest, which is the stable governments and a more proportionate system. The majority party that the people chooses to have the first reason in the creation of the government, but not the almightyness given to him by the previous law with the excessive bonus of the fifty seats. The proportional bonus we propose forces government alliances on a more solid and realistic basis. In conclusion, I would like to say that electoral law is an opportunity for the government to approach the forces of the European arc, to show that it seeks convergence in practice rather than in words. On the other hand, electoral law is also an opportunity for Civic Opposition to show that it has taken steps in a progressive direction and is not conservative reflexes. So the proposal from the Potamius offers us a golden opportunity to have such a convergence on such an important subject, without winners and losers. Can our political system stand that? I wish I could be disproved. But I'm afraid that coding and colluding are far easier than arguing and composing. And as the history of recent years of the crisis has already shown, we are probably resorting to easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Ioannis Saridis from the Centroon Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we have an election, we are talking about the famous message that the citizens have sent to politicians. From the first democratic elections to the first of September last year, each party interpreted the citizens' message according to the way it was attracted. I never remember reaching a clear conclusion about what the citizens' message is after all. What kind of message do you understand, dear friends of Officerial Representation, how does the people send when they are more capable of a prime minister than anyone? What message do citizens send when they send eight political formations to Parliament, which, together with the Ecoologists, the 'Arma' of Mr Zuraris and the Christian Democrats of Mr Nikolaopoulos, are actually reaching eleven political formations? What do you think citizens want, who have stopped offering the security of self-resistance to the so-called power cuts? End of power parties! Bilateralism ends with him and theft of seats by Parliament is ending with him, and the anti-democratic system of enhanced analogy is ending. The entry of the Union of Centres into the national Parliament was accompanied by the formulation of clear demands: the first we asked was the simple analogue, which is for us not just a founding, programming position of decades, but a precondition for democracy. We have put a lot of hopes in the implementation of mere analogy. And here I would like to make a comment on an argument that was heard by a colleague from the Opposition, who, in his position, claimed that Greeks when voting for government. No, gentlemen! Greeks will now decide who will be obliged on their behalf to sit around a table to work for the good of the country, which everyone knows what it is. The Greeks will now know, as will the electors who will be elected, that the first requirement for them to have a future will be to be able to argue and cooperate. Bipartisanism has deprived the Hellenic Republic of its most basic component, which is the arguments. Two points of view have been taken up by the political speech, while allowing political authorities and experts to be created, which have reached us exactly where they have reached us. Ladies and gentlemen, as a democrat, to continue to regard myself as a democrat, I feel obliged by my conscience to remain faithful to my political ideas and to vote in favour of simple proportionally. As a democrat I cannot accept the cost of democratic representation, succumbing to the fear of government. It is a time-consuming faith in the enhanced analogue and fear that he used to claim or remain in power. I'm not afraid of cooperation between Greeks. On the contrary, the story taught me that when the Greeks are united they can magnify. I'll say two words, closing my position, voting at 17 and 3%. The vote at seventeen makes sense to me. It sends the right message to our youth. Our society is ruthless and our young people must know that. The system awaits them as soon as possible to take responsibility for all kinds, whether or not they are prepared for it, as is unfortunately the case most often. The message I wish to give the seventeen, voting on their obligation and right to choose those who rule them in their name is one: the world is tough and is rushing to make you responsible and to remove you from the protection of parental responsibility! The 3% threshold does indeed reduce the democratic representation of citizens. A recent example is LAE. I ask you: would the presence of Mr Lafazan and Mrs Konstantopoulou not be useful in Parliament? Much can be said, but not that there were no consistent ideological or that they had nothing to say. But we accept this limit for only one reason, because we believe it is not possible for the political system of the country to protect the Hellenic Republic from malicious foreign and domestic interests, which seek not democratic pluralism, but the security and information of the Parliamentary seat. In conclusion, I would like to address the PASOK and the Potami and ask them to reconsider. As much as micro-party games are played, you have the opportunity to stop a 50-seat theft from the Greek people. And to a lovely friend of the JRC, Mr Giokas, who spoke about the Centro Association, I would like to say that in this place the JRC rang and made absolutely no reason for the simple analogue and that the Centro Association is here, in the Greek Parliament, ten months and at this point in its word has brought her to the fore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros Kalafatis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to give two brief answers only to comments. Mr Balafa, I think that if you did not insinuate this, you said directly that the New Democracy divides the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u125	What's he doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u126	He divides the Greeks. You said it separates the Greeks. This is something that is far from us, however, from our philosophy, in any case. Ladies and gentlemen, in all modern urban representative democracies, in every civilisation with a parliamentary expression, the political system set up to support the proper functioning of a coordinate state is emerging and results from the electoral law, the one regulating the conditions for the participation of political parties and voters, citizens and politicians in the electoral process, as well as the representation of the popular will in parliamentary composition and function. In other words, electoral law, combined with constitutional predictions for the operation of the civil society, compose a mold of the political system, the building of which is based on a way of electoral architecture. Each architectural design to be successful must serve the stability and sustainability of the building to be produced by its application. Likewise, an electoral system is successful and effective when it promotes the sustainability and good functioning of the political structure it will highlight, in order to serve our Parliamentary Republic and, by extension, the needs of the place and of the citizens, as provided for in the Constitution. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your plan leads with mathematical accuracy to a structure that is clean and vulnerable to the slightest seismic vibration. You are so prone to degrading democratic institutions and manipulating them for the service of micro-party purposes that you have not hesitated even this supreme process of constitutional reform, placing it in the shadow of electoral experiments and micro-political "cooking". We should discuss how to strengthen the institutions, how to safeguard transparency, how to guarantee the proper functioning of our democracy and how to cure failures that are rightfully or unfairly fuelling citizens' suspicion of politics. This is what New Democracy is trying to do with its own proposals for constitutional revision, to contribute to a review of the quality of our democracy with the long-standing improvement and resolution of the political system. But under the responsibility of the government, what do we do instead? We are dealing with the short-term, micro-group needs of the rulings. We're counting MPs as beans. We are involved in analyses of the correlation of political forces, benefiting from the people's eyes from the role of MPs and the country's political potential. We are evoking the image of a political system that plays power games that have as a starting point the need for political survival of a party and a Prime Minister, seeing that they are losing the popular base and obviously in the next elections, trying to create elections and conditions of government. That's what I'm going to come back to. Parliament means representation, ladies and gentlemen. This need for representation leads us inevitably to the formation of parties and the parliamentary presence of them creates the form of co-polarisation - opposition. However, the choice of a electoral system cannot be taken by means of a measure of its ability to accurately reflect the electorate's preferences in the number of representatives and in the size of the parliamentary groups. The great challenge of a electoral system is to combine the democratic emergence of the political representatives of the electorate and the popular will with the establishment of a government and the need for stable government of the country. Our post-State Parliamentary Republic, over forty years of normal and undisturbed political life, recognised the need to meet both high requirements at the same time. So it has succeeded over time, with variations of enhanced proportionality, and the political will of the citizens to reflect as loyally and representatively as possible, and the country enjoys the security of stable governments even in the most recent cases of the co-operation governments from 2012 until today. And your government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, thanks to such an election system exists. This course is being attempted today by introducing a vote before the National Representation of a new electoral law. The government speaks of simple and inappropriate proportions, when neither is its thinking so simple nor its pursuits. Why, gentlemen of SYRIZA, since you are so sensitive and opposed to the majority systems, did you rush in 2013 into a single party by a coalition of parties that were in order not to lose the 50-seat election bonus? Then your ideological commitment to simply proportionally allowing you to deviate, and suddenly your conscience now returns to you on the straight road? The truth is another and, unfortunately, the citizens are also aware of it. The truth is that the government is in front of the terrible deadlocks created by its failed policies and has already entered a phase of disintegration. The increasing discontent among citizens creates a bleak climate for the political perspective of the parties to the conflict. Its popular precipitation promotes its electoral collapse. It is obvious that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is on a run. It almost becomes self-proof. How? The most tranquil evidence is that it brought about the electoral law and the efforts it has made to get the consent of the Anti-Population parties to catch up the magical figure that will allow the new arrangements to be implemented by the next elections immediately, with the courage to display its exclusive advantage, sensitivity which is rather scandalously selective and undemocratic, because it is democratically sensitised to grant election rights to the seventeen, but for the thousands of Greek voters who are abroad, i.e., i.,e., the cynical, and anti-democratic, it refuses to allow them to exercise their undemocratic political rights. And of course our compatriots include tens of thousands of young people eighteen, twenty, twenty-five years old for whom, of course, SYRIZA is supposedly cut and sensitized, but only in words. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And to stand by the vote of the seventeen, I would say that an indication of the hypocrisy you are facing them, gentlemen of the government, is the way you are trying to charm them. On the one hand, you raise in practice the adequacy of their maturity, recognising them the right to vote and, on the other, consider them so immature that you try to join them with supposedly benefits that favour the minor effort in the educational process, the promotion of modesty, the depreciation of excellence, and the possibility of taking Dad's car earlier. How immature and small will you eventually prove yourself? The Prime Minister is rejoicing for the Left's consistency in the simple analogue. I'm sorry, but the only final consequence that I can finally recognise in this and SYRIZA's intentions is the damage to the country. In a particularly negative way, it has always prevailed from the position of a weak minority, in an injurious way it has been opposed by the headquarters of the Officerial Response, in a totally disastrous way today they are governing the country and as if that is not enough to get their way out of power by causing, on the one hand, a problem in tomorrow's critical capacity to govern our country and, on the other, saving their political existence. It is therefore a historic necessity that we do not go ahead with the steps that the government has taken. You know, Mr Ministers and colleagues of SYRIZA - and I close with this - that Greece has no tolerance and you know it firsthand. You have restored public administration in conditions of corrosive partyism and dissolution, which we had begun to treat. Evaporate to extinction every healthy cell of the real economy, with the most excitement overtaxation the place has ever known. You have dramatically weakened our country's position and credibility in the international environment. In other words, you have shaped the conditions for Greece to be able to withstand a short period of insolence. And in this very test you are consciously trying to submit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u128	I want to believe - and I close with this - that the majority of Greek Members will not follow the government in this absurdity and will actually function patriotically, preventing new adventures. In several adventures this government has already put Greece and the Greeks. The place can't take any more. Gentlemen of co-government, you really can't afford this place anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Nikolaos SYRIZA has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day. It's the day of vindication of the left world, of the world of democracy. Fifty years the democratic people have been waiting for us right now. That is why there is no excuse, no real and serious argument from the parties in the democratic opposition that can support the refusal to vote in today's bill of simple proportionality. I am addressing the JRC, PASOK and colleagues from the river with whom we have been walking together for many years and concentrating on this historic objective. Ladies and gentlemen, the simple analogue is not a trick, it is not a trick, and we are proving that, because the bill brings it to a politically neutral moment where elections are not provided in the immediate future, no matter how much the New Democracy asks. If we didn't do it now and then bring it near the election, you'd blame us for cutting off and sewing the electoral law into our own measures, because you know that you have been doing this for decades. The simple analogue, however, is the heart of the political system, is the tool to form genuine correlations and to imprint the people's vote in the Greek Parliament. The argument behind the application of mere analogy has been dismantled by life itself, firstly because the mono-party governments are a definitive past, and secondly because the governments of broad consensus are the only ones that can result from wide scheduling on the objectives of the historic period passed by the country. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for the Democratic Integration - you are absent, of course - to ask for a broad consensus of the pro-European forces and, on the other hand, for you to come here today - other than Mr Theocharopoulos, in his honour - and not to vote on the simple analogue when in addition to the recent decisions of your political council, you have taken a clear position and at the same time were the ones who put the same proposal to vote in Parliament a year ago? PASOK colleagues, if you want to prove that you are not a right-wing queue, now this bill, which guarantees the core of the great democratic reform. All the others, of the five proposals that Mr Scandalidis has said, except 42%, are open to us. You know very well that many of them can go through with simple ministerial decisions. Obviously, we are in favour of the vote of Greeks abroad and of students, workers and seafarers and new migrants who, because of the crisis, have left massively abroad. And we know very well that there are conditions for them to participate massively either with their vote in the Greek embassies and consulates or with historical vote. I personally believe that the only prerequisite for the participation of Greek foreigners is to register them on our country's electoral lists, but also to tax them on Greece. Evidently, it is also in our concern that the rate of vote through the break-up of the large constituencies is equal. Obviously, that is also open. As well as open but necessary, it is simply proportionate to apply to the next self-government, municipal and regional elections of 2019. And, if you wish, in any case in our reflection, there is the integration of the electoral system into the country's new constitution. It will be one of the points that will be discussed in the next period. So here's Rhodes. We are going on today, tomorrow and Thursday in the resolution on the crucial issue of the abolition, at last, of the enhanced collapsing system with the bonuses of the fifty seats. We restore the correlation between the will of the electorate and Parliament, and that is the main one. All the rest, ladies and gentlemen, it is a small policy. It is a refusal to confirm that the parties calling themselves a centre-left are still dragging into their chariots. Mitsotakis, Vorides, Georgiadis and their neoliberal choices. Finally, let us think that it is a radical part of the vote at seventeen years ago and that many years ago our great singer Dionyssis Savvopoulos said: “I am the seventeenth. Your... high school". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Helen Aloitou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill in two pages, which I imagine all Members of Parliament would have been able to read, there is an election announcement by the government: the introduction of simple proportionality, and the right to vote from the age of seventeen. Did you say anything? Given its structure to date, current electoral law, which circumvented proportional representation with the introduction of the 50 seats bonus, technically the bill is extremely simple. Removes the bonus. Thus, all seats are allocated proportionally to those parties crossing the entry limit in the parliament that remains 3%. This simple bill, however, served as a catalyst for the dissolution of the political blur that many have been cultivating very diligently in recent months. From the government's point of view, the bill marks our decision to do everything we have announced in the election, even if we cannot do it alone. Everything that's going on here with the electoral law will be done everywhere. Everything we've said, we'll do it. We're not gonna do it in a day, but we're gonna do it all in four years' time. From the standpoint of the Opposition again - especially of the government in the past - the bill reveals the opportunityal interconnection of words and works. All of them are in favour of the governments of cooperation in the words. But once you bring them a bill that makes the governments of cooperation necessary, they call cooperation instability. And of course, it's against instability. People who have ruled the country in the past with the bonus of the fifty seats, once they lost the election, have been found accusing us of ruling with the bonus of the fifty seats provided for in their own law. But now that we dismantle the bonus, people themselves blame us for not keeping it. It seems that it is their general practice in what we do to say 'no' and to seek the opposite. But if we ever do the opposite, which they have asked themselves, they will still say 'no', asking for what they did before. The theater of irrationality, that is! So we have parties that, after insisting on the abolition of the bonus, assuming that our electoral system is distorting, will today vote against the abolition of the bonus, so that our electoral system is not distorted. I'm sorry? Did you say anything? Even the PASOK, which had submitted a bill of simple analogy, when it naturally considered that it would not pass, now denounce the legitimate legislative work of the parliament as a coup. It had to be said that the law of simple analogy had been deposited within certain time limits, which define themselves as the permitted window of convenience. Then maybe they'd vote for it. But today, no. So, ladies and gentlemen, do you vote or vote against the laws according to the date they were tabled and not according to their content? So what are you looking at? The faces of the planets? The moon's phases? What time is he doing outside? What if the numbering of the deposit date is good? Because we of course judge the bills from their content. Of course, we have heard various counter-proposals in the bill, although I suppose that, if we had included them, you may have denounced them and voted against them again. Some parties want the big regions to break. They are disturbed by the large regions, because they facilitate small parties and the renewal of parliamentarians. In the background, what they would like is a system of majority voting, with one-sided regions, where financial interests can intervene more effectively in favour of selected individuals. The international experience, however, shows that the large regions bring about the continuous renewal of MEPs, while small ones often act as a feud. Thus, in Greece, we usually have the renewal of 1/3 of the House in every election campaign, since the voter can choose from different persons. On the other hand, for example, in the United States of America, which has one-sided, about 95% of MPs are almost life-threatening. You want a life-long parliamentary seat? Well, you won't have it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally understand this: we are not afraid of the people's crisis, so we are not afraid of the simple analogue. We shall be judged at the end of the four-year period, as will all parties and all Members. Afterwards, a new parliament, representing the will of the people, will undertake to form the next government, in a spirit of political cooperation, on the basis of the policies proposed. So those who are not afraid of the people's crisis let him decide, by voting in favour of today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Olga Kefalayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, since September 2015, immediately after the second elections, the country has been in a new protracted period of uncertainty. The dramatic conclusion of the first phase of SYRIZA governance - ANEL under no circumstances did it complicate its inspirations. Despite the huge cost, the incalculable damage to Greek society, the mistakes continued. The first assessment proved to be a painful adventure, leading to a peculiar closure, with measures unreasonably measures and Greece in a permanent hostage regime. The attempt to build a left-wing success story was quickly abandoned even by its inspirations, because the truth of what a success story could stand in a country where the biggest tax raid is taking place, where Greek entrepreneurship is being eradicated, where the middle-class is being depleted, where thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises are closing down? No, it's the answer. That is why very quickly, in terms of political extremism, the next step was invented, an incomplete, incomprehensible and extremely dangerous way in the way debate is taking place on major and critical issues, such as electoral law. In essence, the government chooses another diversion, without any distinction as usual about the consequences. He plays with the fire and this time, the first with the economy, now with the institutions, even with the city. The aim is one: the maintenance of power, at all costs. The government is opening up the debate on electoral law as the first dose of this plan. And here we have to be clear. The aim of the SYRIZA - ANEL alliance is not a more proportional electoral law. It's not the fairest distribution. It's not the simple and inappropriate analogue. It's the fraudulent attempt to control power. The government's aim is essentially to adapt electoral law to its narrow party pursuits, to cause impotence to the return of other political forces to power, to create insolence in a game of cynical calculations, party benefits, personal pursuits. No thought at all about tomorrow's country, no thoughts of national understanding on such crucial and so serious issues. The political cynicism in all its majesty! With this choice, the government creates the conditions for a deep, protracted crisis and thus adds a new dimension to the economic crisis: institutional uncertainty. It brings to the vote an opportune construction, which does not respond to any real needs for changes in our electoral system, the total redesign of the electoral regions, the way Members are elected, to the extent that the system is proportionate. Instead, you're going through fragmentary provisions, without the beginning, the middle and the end. You will allow me to stand on two main points of the draft law. Firstly, on the vote at seventeen, the government invokes a resolution from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe since 2011 which contains an urge to make such legislative intervention. But how will it be if we do not conform to the age limit and with other objective data, if it is not linked to the general adulthood limits? That's why we proposed the legal capacity of the Civil Code. We have proposed other limits so that we can come up with something that is objective and unified, that is to say, an integrated scheme of adulthood. Secondly, for the abolition of the bonus. Here, in fact, the purpose of the bill is described, which is also obvious and fraudulent. Consider forgetting that the country is objectively going through one of the hardest times in its history. Of course a number of critical questions arise. Do you think that the country with what you are proposing will be able to govern, take and implement policies with four or five parties? Will these parties be able to find a common way and converge in their programming speech, move on to the big changes that the place needs? What kind of stability message do you think we're sending inside and out? One thing is certain. This is how we are guided by mathematical accuracy in paralytic intellectivity and political instability, in a failure to establish stable and viable governments that can implement programming objectives. This is unfortunately the truth, which is behind the veil of simple and inappropriate analogy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely regrettable once again that the government is dealing with such a crucial institutional issue in a micro-political and opportunistic way, in the name of a so-called fair and proportionate electoral law. It is also paradoxical to have the debate on electoral law first followed by the constitutional review. It is completely unreasonable to be negative in creating real shocks, while the country needs them - I repeat, real, not pretexts, as you are used to do to trap counterpopulation - shocks that ensure in the country a path of stability and realistic solutions. But constitutional populism, which you possess, opens up critical issues such as the election of the President of the Republic by the people, creates conditions for new, stronger uncertainty. Unfortunately, you are the continuation of the previous incomplete constitutional review. You are the metastasis of post-population populism, which brought Greece into bankruptcy. You are worthy of perpetrators of a tradition of lost opportunities for our country, incompetent or indifferent to understand what homeland needs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment Greece has another great opportunity that should not be lost, an opportunity for an enlarged and radical constitutional review that will take into account the crisis, the tolerances shown by our Constitution, the imperfections that have arisen in such a difficult period, the needs that are born for the memorandum Greece, which will strengthen our democracy and shield parliamentaryism, modernise the rule of law. Now is the time to show the political system the maturity that the circumstances require. However, it is a prerequisite for all this to be a structured, responsible, exhaustive and honest dialogue with new terms and concepts. Bring politics back to the fore. And that's where we can talk about it all. I fear, however, that this way of national understanding on such crucial issues is not in your plan, it is not in your political culture. And that proves today's draft law. No matter how many changes you make, you have long chosen the way of political amoralism and short-term tactical manoeuvre. One thing is certain, however, that this road will lead you back to a dead end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, my colleague. Let me make an announcement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Framework for safety in offshore hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation work, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the d.d. 148/2009 and other provisions’. Mrs Keramemos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an electoral law must have two main tasks. It must ensure, first of all, the country's governance and, secondly, the proportionality of citizens' representation. Unfortunately, this draft law that you have brought to the vote with clear opportunistic, regularistic criteria, on the basis of political survival criteria alone, does not guarantee any of these two missions. And I'm explaining. As far as cybercrificy is concerned, by legislating simply proportionally, you are legislating on the authority of the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if the electoral law you are proposing today for vote was in force in last September's elections, SYRIZA would have only one hundred and fourteen of Parliament's three hundred seats. This means that it should ally with three or even four other parties of today's Opposition to form a majority. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen. With what other parties, with which other three or four parties could SYRIZA have allied to form a government? On the basis of what common ideological and political references? And, of course, it is not enough that the formation of the government should rule the place, that the government should withstand moments of crisis with very difficult measures to vote on. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your own party - I am not even talking about a party alliance - has lost forty Members in six months' government. What coalition four or five parties are we talking about? What kind of coalition would it have withstand such difficult measures to vote on? But let us speak with certain historical elements. The simple analogue has been applied in the past in our country many times. Between 1926 and 1990, twenty-one governments were formed on the basis of mere proportionality. Do you know how much each of these governments on average lasted? It lasted five months. This is the insolence, ladies and gentlemen, which lies with this draft law. And it's not just opposition. The Minister himself says so, Mr. Kurublis. I mention his statements just two months ago on 16 May, in fact on the first line of the SCA, where the Minister announced at the time that the bonus will be thirty seats. And when asked by the astonishing journalist "but why don't you go to the simple non-monetary, as you said?", the Minister who is proposing today this bill said in a word "why the country will never be governed". So the Minister himself, who today recommends the simple analogue, has confessed that we are legislating in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the dramatic economic situation, the budgetary gaps, the growing entanglement in businesses, the refugee crisis, the crisis in Turkey, the crisis in the European Union, the last thing that our country needs right now is to remain unresolved. Perhaps we could discuss whether the 50-seat bonus is appropriate, it is right, whether it should be modified, but without any kind of aid for the first party, which will win the election, the place will not be able to be governed. And the responsibility of those Members who consent to the rule of law in this country will be enormous. After the cyberdynamics, I now come to the second mission, which has an electoral law, which is proportionality. On the pretext of proportionality, bring in this draft law. In fact, you say in the explanatory statement accompanying the draft law and I read from your explanatory statement: "It is chosen that the proportional electoral system should be established so that the parliament is truly representative of the Greek society and that it should be expressed in a democratic manner, in all respects and political shades". Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you were really interested in the proportional representation of society in Parliament, you would consent to the two proposals of the New Democracy, which are just moving in the direction of the more proportional representation of society. In particular: Firstly, you would agree in our proposal to partition the largest region in the country of Second Athens, which has more than 1.4 million electors, i.e. about 14% of the total electorate. The purpose of this partition that we are proposing, but which you do not accept, is to increase the representativeness of the voters, to ensure that the candidates are closer to the electors and, if possible, to reduce them - phenomena of political influence. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you were really interested in proportional representation, then you would consent to the proposal for a law that we have tabled since April for voting on Greeks on electoral lists and who live abroad. In this category, about four hundred and fifty thousand young people have left in recent years because of the crisis. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Minister, you deny vote to voters corresponding to 8% of the electorate, who voted in the last elections. And yet, you say hypocritically in your explanatory statement and I reread from the text of your report that you choose to give a more substantial role and a reason for younger citizens, because they are the generation in danger of suffering the consequences of the crisis. What do we tell you, Minister? These young people, who have already suffered the consequences of the crisis, which unfortunately have already left abroad, must have the right to vote. You, however, do not legislate on proportionality, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and in addition you are fighting any dissent on the part of the Officerial Response. What are the real intentions and motives of the government behind the propelled change of electoral law? Why are we talking about this now? We are talking about this now, because now your polls seem to be falling considerably from the New Democracy. If you were so concerned with a simple analogue, why didn't you institutionalise it before the September elections, which you yourself caused? And for what other reason are you now moving the process of changing the electoral law? Why now, the measures you have chosen yourself, which you have voted on yourself, now these measures take flesh and bone and are violently experienced by the Greeks, beginning with the reduced pensions last month, now in the tax clearance and following by HISA. With this debate on electoral law, you want to disorientate public opinion from these painful measures. Now, then, this debate is taking place, because you have to save your political future. Ladies and gentlemen - and I close - these are the true intentions of the government behind this draft law, an electoral law that leads to the rule of law, a piece of legislation with characteristics of institutional settlements and opportune choices, indifferent to the interests of the place, with the sole aim of serving the same interest, in short, to disorientate public opinion from the lot of measures and, above all, to remain in power in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u138	I would like the floor, Mr President, to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u139	You have the floor, Minister, for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am watching four hours with great care and respect for all my fellow Members. The New Democracy's strong, unblemished argument is the Minister's position in a personal view. This means that they consider the Minister to be authority. Because they had no more serious argument. Accuracy is linked to the placement of the Minister. I don't consider myself a authority. I'm trying to be authentic, but I'm not an authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u141	You're the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I was born and manned in a political area that learned to defend his opinion. I have therefore tabled a number of opinions to open up the dialogue. I'm part of a democratic party. This party has procedures. It's not a yuru party and hegemony. It's a democratic party. He's got organs. This issue was therefore discussed in the Party's Political Secretariat and in the Central Committee. Do you know what a very great politician, the Old Democrat, said? That the politician must have in him the bravery, when he realizes that his views are not the only ones, are not governed by the only truth, differentiate the opinion, or have the bravery to defend the majority. That means democracy in a party. But you are a hundred of such ideas and opinions. You've put on the tape that the Minister said that, so the Minister said it. The Minister therefore states that he does not possess the only truth. And good to hear these views from the New Democracy, the Right does not change nor is it receptive to learning because I was placed in committee and explained and the tape still plays the Minister. But when I hear people like my good friend and partner Costas Scandalidis talk about Vabel to SYRIZA, I think the arteriosclerosis has reached a high degree. Because, my dear companion, when PASOK had pluralism, it was very powerful. The indictment of the different viewpoint led it to the point where it led it. And you deleted me that night, because I had a different view and no one had the political courage to defend me. Now you've told me I left PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u143	Nobody said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u144	That's the truth. You're accusing me of leaving PASOK. I didn't leave. You deleted me because I was differentiated in one respect. You couldn't stand the results. From there on, think that in ‘90 the argument of PASOK against the Left - which made the mistake not to vote on the simple analogue and did not win from this option - was that you ally with your natural opponents and you are in conflict with your natural allies. Now, what's going on? And well, the Minister had a point of view. Maybe it was right, maybe she was wrong too. When did you get a good point of view? Last year, when all the MPs, along with my friend Costas Scandalidis, signed the simple analogue? Then why didn't you remember breaking the regions? Why didn't you remember all that you're talking about? I hear in the interests of home and patriotism by the good colleagues of the New Democracy. Listen, when we talk about patriotism, we should all be careful. We're all patriots in here. I think that we are all and that we all love Greece, each with its different approach. But you must say that you have this quality, that you can only serve the interests of the country and everyone else thinks fraud, perhaps, is an exaggeration, which does not help to bring about a peaceful democratic dialogue. I hear you weeping, tearing crocodile tears - they have soaked the benches - for the young people who have gone abroad. Who sent them, Mr. Comrade? SYRIZA? SYRIZA sent these people abroad? And now you want to give them a vote? And well, I respect your anxiety. Since 2000, the Constitution has provided for this possibility. How many times have you ruled so far? Who prevented you? Did SYRIZA stop you from giving the vote? And you come and say it here? And it's better for the river to say. I understand that. It's a new party. Should PASOK and New Democracy say so? What's your impression, that the people have a goldfish memory? He doesn't know what's going on with him? Are you coming here and telling us about the poll? Look, the bishop has sinned not a wise man. You've believed polls many times. The most "reliable" people in Greece are the pollsters. There is no question of their'reliability'! So if you trust them, you endure at the end of the four-year period. And because tomorrow I will take the floor, I will tell you and why the Greek people will not vote for you. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, because the parliamentary representatives have asked to regulate their time when the Minister will speak, he said he will speak tomorrow. He's told me he'll talk tomorrow at 6:30 an.m. You should know that. And I think now, Mr Teddy, you can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, it is not possible for the Minister to speak for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u148	Deal. He asked for three minutes of the speech and made a three-minute derogation. You're a noble man. You understand that we cannot stay in such a controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u149	That's not a derogation. It's called multiplication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u150	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u151	You want to take him away from me tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u152	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Dendia, the Minister asked the floor for three or four minutes to make an intervention because it had been made...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u155	Then, Mr President, let me take the floor for thirty seconds and speak for one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u156	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u157	Can I handle this, Mrs. Alonitou? He asked for three - four minutes of the speech, because he referred to his name twice. There was a two-three-minute derogation. If you want for a minute to say something, say it, but please very much, Mr. Teddy, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, first of all, I have no objections for the moment. The Minister will not only listen to one, two, three times his name, but he will hear it a hundred and fifty times as many Members as will speak. I didn't want to make a personal point. The Minister does something unprecedented here, however: he comes in and recommends a law against his opinion, without apologies to the National Representation for his previous viewpoint. The Minister, when he was posted in May 2016, was not placed on a regional matter. It was placed on the country's own prudence, on a subject which, as he put it, was a matter of national importance. In any case, his personal sensitivity may be, handled and managed as he wishes. The issue of his and his government is of the party, which now belongs. I would like to ask him one thing: The references to the Members of the New Democracy, who invoke him for his views, to restrict them, because - if ever possible - there are limits to everything. He has a right to change his mind and not to explain why he changed it. It's his right. But they also have an absolute right to be present and to make reference to and address through the influence of the National Representation in Greek society and when they try to convince society of the correctness of their evenings, to invoke the Minister himself as great and impeccable witness, which is currently suggesting the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u160	Minister, wait a minute. But please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Tendas, lessons of democracy, I don't accept from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u162	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u163	If you want, we can have the conversation, but you'll be lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u164	Minister, you said what you wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u165	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Gaki, are we having a conversation now? Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of a calculation made by the Bureau, today we will go about until Mrs Theodora Megalonomorou, about until the number 34. I'm telling you, so you know it and you can set up your own time. Mr. Christos Dimas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to enter the debate between the old PASOK, which is now in the government and today's PASOK, which is in the Opposition. However, Mr Minister for the Interior, I will agree with you on two things: firstly, you are not a authority. That's what we agree. It's certain. Secondly, I agree with Minister Kurubli, the Interior Minister, who in May 2016, in other words just two months ago, had said that a mere proportional system would bring the country into neutrality. That is where I agree with Minister Kurubli. Of course, the reality is that the current Minister, Mr Kourublis, disagrees with himself two months ago. This is certainly an issue that deserves debate. From there on, when we all look forward to the return of the economy to normality, we all want the recovery of the Greek economy, the government brings an electoral law, which, not only disorientates society from the very important problems we have, but is also a fragmentary one. The strange thing about this is that many SYRIZA MPs claim to be a mere analogue system. But the reality is that Mr Koutsubas, the Secretary-General of the JRC, tells you that an electoral law providing for a 3% entry limit for political parties cannot be just proportional. In his honor, the State Secretary, Mr Balafas, admitted it. He said that thing and it's in his honor. So if you really wanted to talk about the introduction of a simple proportional system, you should have incorporated the JRC's amendment into the text of the bill. Of course, I can tell you that the 3% threshold is something which must not be changed, in the view of the New Democracy. Although we have at the same time heard, even in the Prime Minister's circles opening it, it is a disappointment that is not discussed. But what is the motive of the political parties to change the electoral law? The motive is very specific and clear. It is that with the proposed electoral law, opposition parties will increase the number of their MPs. In fact, with the new electoral law, the first party will have fewer Members than the current one. It seems to me that it is too early to admit defeat from the SYRIZA side to change the electoral law. But I also heard criticism from the Centroon Association. I have specifically heard the President of the Central Association say in a recent interview that'simple analogue encourages cooperation between the political parties'. I do not understand why it is the electoral law that will encourage cooperation between the political parties. If there is a common programming basis, if there is a possibility of coalition between the political parties, I do not think that the electoral law will affect cooperation between them. On the contrary, electoral law, such a proportional law, at most, to create opportune alliances, just for there to be government majorities. The reality is that the electoral law that is being proposed today by the government leads, not only to integrity, but also to political instability and to "badification" of the political system, and, as I pointed out earlier, is a very critical time for the Greek economy and the messages we send as a country on the markets, while trying to regain their credibility, are completely wrong. We will neither be able to attract investment nor convince the markets that a serious effort is being made in Greece to restore normality. However, I see with great interest and the adoption of the vote at seventeen. It is true that in the explanatory statement it is said that democratic legitimacy is being extended. Why shouldn't it happen at sixteen? It expands further. Why not 15? It expands even further. Why not fourteen? Is that a serious argument? Do we not realize that in eighteen the vote is accompanied by the ageing of the citizens? In eighteen, except for the right to vote, you have some obligations. At eighteen, the country calls on you to serve it, at eighteen, you have the opportunity to vote. The New Democracy has tabled an amendment to the partition of 2nd Athens. I would be even more brave and say that other electoral districts should be broken. It is not just Athens II, but that is certainly the beginning. I would very much like an answer, Mr Secretary, why you will not accept - if you do not accept - the New Democracy amendment. Also, the New Democracy has proposed a vote in the split, to the Greek expatriates. Why do we exclude homosexuals from the possibility of taking part in an election campaign for the country? I don't think you want to include them. I would really like an answer from the government to this question. I will tell you something even more bold: I will not tell you to go to a letter vote or to vote on Greek citizens abroad in embassies. We could even follow the model of states like Estonia, which has institutionalised electronic voting, and there are ways in which you can do this with great security and achieve very good results. That is what will broaden the democratic basis in an election campaign. So, if we really want to enlarge it, there are ways. But these are things that we should discuss in an integrated electoral law. Finally, this law is not just proportional. It is a law, which quite simply runs counter to simple logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Hatzidakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the most provocative lies of the SYRIZA have been said not before, but after the elections, in trying to cover up the sins of the past. It is what is done almost daily on the part of SYRIZA, that the fish is baptized. Such a great lie is now also called in the context of the vote here on the electoral law. What does SYRIZA say? He remembered the sanctuaries and loyalties of the Left, the simple analogue. Except that the same party - for some reason that has to be explained to us - had suffered last year a 'Altschaimer' policy, had forgotten the sanctuary and loyals of the Left and welcomed the bonus of the fifty seats and thus won the September elections. And, of course, SYRIZA has now remembered the sanctuary and fidelity of the Left, for the reason Mr Kurublis told us in the committee responsible, in order to prevent the progress of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u170	He told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u171	He said so, calling for the PASOK and the River for that very reason to vote for the law. Unless she changed her mind again - as she has a right - and she believes that it is well to do the PASOK and the Potami. We will be here to see what Mr Kourublis thinks today, who, as he has the opportunity, is changing very often. In any case, it is clear what the government is seeking to do. Organizes its defeat, disorganizing the country. That's what this is about. She wants to control and mitigate the consequences of her defeat. He brings an electoral law, which is an admission of defeat clearly - Mr Kurublis said so - and it brings him summer, keeping Parliament open, why - who knows? - She is afraid, on the one hand, of an accident, or on the other, she is planning an escape to "throw white towel", but at the same time holding a relatively decent percentage, in order to have a role in the post-election setting. I think that things are quite clear and you cannot, ladies and gentlemen, say about the principles and values of the Left, hide an elephant in a locker. He's too big for the elephant to hide. In any case, in the context of this provocative and electoral law, you are claiming to be a great modernist intervention in the political affairs of the country. And then, in the context of this spirit of modernisation, which has understood you, why do you not accept the New Democracy proposal for the vote of Greeks abroad? It applies in twenty-three other countries of the European Union. Why do you not accept our amendment, which is ready, detailed and processed, so that the vote on the revenue from the next elections will take effect? Why? Because you obviously do not have the intentions you are saying, but you have a micro-party spirit. The same applies to the partition of the second Athens. It is also a state of modernisation, which once, in one of its appearances on television, the Minister responsible, Mr Kourublis, has also supported it, but today he has changed his mind, even in it. Ladies and gentlemen, on the side of SYRIZA you think it is a modernist intervention in almost pan-European originality to vote in Greece, not just the seventeen-year-olds, but also the sixteen-year-olds, who will otherwise have no other right, resulting from adulthood, because you are holding it in the eighteen years. Adults will only be entitled to vote, and not only the 17-year-olds. As the bill is written, a child who was born in December 2000, if the elections take place in February 2017, will be able to vote, i.e. a child who will be sixteen years old and two months old. That's what you're about to vote on. This child, however, cannot otherwise do any justice. He will have no other right than those resulting from adulthood. Wonderful modernization intervention! [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Of course, in the context of these modern-day interventions, you will obviously be prepared from now on to hold election gatherings in high school. While you would normally expect the parties to leave the middle school, you would come with this bill to put them further. In any case, it is clear that this is a bill with micro-party targets. The New Democracy, on the other hand, which may have made a thousand mistakes in various areas, must recognise that it has been stable since 1974 'was raining, snowing' in its place for the enhanced proportion. And we insist on this, because we believe that enhanced proportionality contributes to government stability. On the contrary, with this bill you bring, it will be required to agree at least three parties to become a government, if not four. Consider how difficult this will be, when both parties of this House, the JRC and the Golden Dawn, will not participate in any governmental shape. It is not enough that you took the country back, that with SYRIZA "we went for wool and we went out raided", but now that you are on a runway, you leave us for legacy and an insolence in gift pack! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you what an old politician once told me. He said to me: "In whatever office you can enter, whatever office you occupy, you must always look at the door of the exit, because you must be ready to leave with dignity." You are not ready to leave with dignity, and that is what will always accompany you, because you don't know how to lose. And it's not enough you lose. Greece is losing with you. And that is unforgivable for the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u172	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago we watched another Minister cry about changing views. Then Mr. Spirtzi, Mr. Dritsa, Mr. Skourletis, came, and Mr. Kurublés, who changed his opinion on governance. He is suggesting, because one has enlightened him throughout this period, that it is better to view measurable and not practicable, and he has come here to suggest that he is in the blue of tears, of course, and actually making an attack on the Right, an attack to stimulate his own mind, to stimulate your own mind, that the Right wants a system very different, which, as I hear from a colleague before, supports interests, while simply proportional is against interests! Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who says that there is a perfect electoral system will lie, because every electoral system is always built in relation to the history of every place, of every democracy, from what waves has passed and has two main objectives: the first and dominant objectives is to create a healthy majority, which can be expressed through the parliamentary system and to run the place. The second is not to create such a great deal of exclusion that other currents are created in society. I fear that with what you are doing, you are contradicting the history of the place, which has shown that every time we had a simple analogue, as Mrs Kerameau said a moment ago, we did not make governments that lasted. We've led to bankruptcy in the past. We were driven by results of mere analogy to dictatorships, as the 1936 parliament had just taken out of self-repression and handed over power to Metaxas. Of course, they simply proportionally have countries and democracies that have a strong public administration, which do not need a minister who has a parliamentary majority for more than eight months to decide what will count on the proofs of taxpayers and what they will submit every year, as is the case with your own government. And they don't have to ratify it from the House, because they have a stable tax system, a stable administrative system, they don't choose managers, they don't choose hospital governors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u174	Like what you left us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u175	...they don't make suburban recruitments and assignments to positions of responsibility, but there's an administrative system, which follows a stray one. Unfortunately, it is not our country, it is not and I see no step forward that you have so far taken to create it, to be honest. All you're doing is imposing anxieties, russefhettoism, partisanism, appointing your friends and not ending up nowhere. We still cannot form the independent authorities with the strong majority demands of the Constitution. And you want to get to a complete power fragmentation. I'm afraid that, too, will be back in a boomerang. Because, after all, the people, in fear of intergovernmentalism, will give even stronger mandate to the first party, to the New Democracy Party, which will be the first party after the next elections, and you will be dramatically shrinking, as it seems to us to be incomprehensible today, so the New Democracy-SYRIZA partnership in a government will then appear. Ladies and gentlemen, you are doing something else, which is even worse. You create a bomb on the foundations of Greek society, which is unprecedented. To plunder, to say that you trust the young, you vote for the sixteen, ignoring the entire national legal order. No sixteen can buy or sell anything. No sixteen can consume alcohol.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u176	Is that an argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u177	No sixteen can marry, but he can vote and choose a government. What are you doing? You open the door to school at the election campaigns...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u178	Sixteen of any alcohol?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u179	Yes, it's illegal to serve, Mr. Colleague, in any public space, regardless of whether it's being imprisoned. It's illegal. And I'm going to tell you that what you're doing, opening schools to election campaigns, is enmity with an imperceptive partyism and our children. I think that many of you who come from KNE dream about the old times that you wanted every Sunday as young people to sell "RIZOSOPASTI" and demanded that "RIZOPASITIS" enter school as well as newspapers enter school. Now you will claim to enter the school door, make political guidance to children, build the training managers as you wish them to, and jam a Greek society with the wrong messages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you trust the youth, change all the provisions of both the Civil and Criminal Code. Make adults for both criminal and civil responsibilities. And you say that we have a society that will start all the legal rights - and the obligation to campaign - from the 16th and not a society that really wants to give young people the opportunity to complete their compulsory education and lead them to a next day of professional, personal and social gain through their work. Do it. But you don't. You give a cheese, which you think will bring you party benefits. Fortunately for the place, I am sure that our young people will understand that. Besides, it does not appear in any newly-populated movement, in any massive and universal vote among young people, that SYRIZA prevails. It's probably among the urine, through the extreme perceptions that it's often carried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u180	Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, we really must have remained very surprised by Mr Kurubli's attitude, which is not just a change of attitude. In other words, it is not a mere change of attitude, a minister argues that this law will have powerlessness and then come to support it. It's the epitome of political amoralism. And we are all so surprised that Mr Leventis' current position before the Group of the European People's Party has almost gone unnoticed. After this speech, one wonders what Mr Tsipras and all the ministers have to say about electoral law. He even exceeded Mr. Tsipras' previous supporter, Mr. Kouvelis. And saying the name "Cublis" - oh of the miracle! - Mr Kouvelis, who met today with Mr Tsipras and agreed with him. And so, we have Tsipras - Kammenos - Leventis - Kouvelis, the most powerful argument for not voting anything, not just the electoral law. Otherwise, SYRIZA - ANEL and all those who support them follow the protocol and the recipe of all authoritarian regimes faithfully. What are they doing? They build an external enemy, take measures to curb the information, namely the media laws, and change the electoral law so much, and between them throw a referendum. The more the people vote on the Caesarean regimes, the more the authority of these authoritarian regimes is perpetuated. The purpose is clear: Illegal, petty. You know from Venezuela. Now such regimes are both from the west and from the east.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u182	What about the apostasy? But you don't say it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u183	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u184	You know very well. Thirteen elections in 14 years did Chaves to perpetuate his authority. That's what you do now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u185	At least she did not vote for Venezuela's measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Tsipras does everything he needs to keep his authority and chair. Nothing more than that. Where is your programme of September, which said something else about the electoral system? September, not January! That's what we forgot. It's over. Your September programme said other things about the political system, the electoral law that you will change and remove 3%. Nothing! You got everything that suits you to agree with some and pass the law and it's over. Because Mr Tsipras, as I have said, is not interested in anything but in perpetuating his authority. Twice it benefited from the so-called bonus of the fifty seats, which is essentially a way of expressing the people and choosing parties, because the system is very proportionate, however, in the two-five seats. However, the people' s desire to define what will be the first party to determine developments must be respected. That's what you want to do. So, you want to be soaking. Well, everything Mr. Tsipras said proved to be a terrible lie. In July 2011, present at Mr Glezou, Mr Tsipras said: ‘We do not agree. That's why we'd take all the fifty seats that election law gives, but we'd give them back, because they're stolen." But he stole them and kept them for two elections! And he kept taking the robbery. For the stealing, for these fifty seats, in May 2012, you became a single party. For the robbery, Mr. Tsipras called on himself to dismantle the components. For the robbery said in 2013 in the context of the PPC, "the electoral law is today such. We do not agree, but he is such that there is no doubt that he who is the first party will form a government." He said that in 2013. It wasn't the man's deal, but for the robbery you've been saying since September 2014, when you were preparing the elections, that the stirring of the issue is a confession of defeat. Skourletis said that electoral law should not be an ace in the sleeve, which also goes to the table, i.e. ahead of elections. You don't want to elect a law then. For the robbery, after the January 2015 elections, you said that the electoral law can wait later. When later? When SYRIZA was down. Of course, about the robbery you said that election law was not available for regularity on August 5, 2015, 15 days before the election. For the robbery, you needed all this. After all, it is every vote in Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, stolen with lies and fairy tales of Halima, for the tear of the memorandum at noon, a minimum wage at EUR 751, the abolition of the HIS, dulls and lyrics that you would be bored with. Now, after two memorials and cuts and savage taxes, you bring electoral law, because you can no longer steal the vote with false promises and you want to steal it with an election law. It's always about stealing. That's your poor thing. The country is dying, we have for the first time a drop in tourism, today announced by OAS an increase in unemployment in June - take note - that is, in full tourist season. They are closing down businesses, we have continuous industrial, processing, export reduction, imported inflation, deflation, but here the main popular demand is electoral law. In addition, today especially these days, the neighbor is flirting. You have managed to create an additional problem with your inability and diligence, because you have rushed to speak before justice, promise to issue officers. If we had, you'd blamed us for rajadism. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos would have done that. However, Mr. Tsipras considers that he can speak with Mr. Erdogan or with his counterpart and say "we will issue them" and prejudges decisions of justice, because Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos are all allowed, as long as they are not bothered about staying in power. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos stay undisturbed in their chairs, saying "yes" in both the memorandum and Erdogan. So much 'yes' has never said any government. Of course, now, just because you are in front of this great danger that you have caused, you have a debate three days on the electoral law, no one gets a load of what you're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that the robbery is not a job. The thief and the liar in the first year are happy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u187	We continue with Mrs Christophilopoulou from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Balafa, I heard you say - and I think you were right - that electoral law does not save the situation, but political initiatives. At some point, at the beginning of your speech, you said so. But I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if the government at the moment has the opportunity to take real political initiatives relating to very serious economic sectors, to insurance, to social and to development. We see what we see, is really recession everywhere, buttocks, unemployment, abolition of EKT, pension cuts, overtaxation and then follow-up. Because the scene toward the end of the year, and particularly the beginning of next year, will include other heavy measures and other cuts. Of course, the cutter comes somewhere in the spring. He's here to stay. These are all government political initiatives, as a result of the hard negotiation of SYRIZA - ANEL. That is the political reality. At the same time, political reality abroad is just as dangerous, with terrorist strikes, with the neighbour, which, from a coup, goes to another type of totalitarianism. The situation needs not only stability and sobriety, but mainly national understanding and cooperation. And we come here now and we have a bill, I think, three articles, Minister, which is supposed to build what? Consent. And how? With the salamation of the electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen, we had made it clear from the outset, Mrs Gennimata said so by visiting Mr Tsipras at the Maximos Mansion, that we are not going to vote on the electoral law. We had said the same thing about insurance, and I remind you that you did not have a dialogue at that time. Months, since October, when you pulled out the experts, we asked - and we had our own proposal - for real dialogue, for the political and social forces to sit down and discuss. We have had our own proposal, which has had its difficult points. It wasn't all good and good. And today, he says, we are indulging that we are not consistent, because we had brought at the right time a law that abolished the bonus. I didn't get it. Who exactly are they prosecuting us? Those who wanted to bear the thirteenth pension, to abolish the ENPI, to have a tax-free 12,000 euros, - can I continue - those who said that the pensions should not be cut, who spoke about the parallel programmes and the equivalents? Travelling on a trip, delusional, lying! And you're telling us we're not consistent? Let me laugh. Irrespectively Savages! Let's go now and see what we have to talk about, because I really do want to ask the other parties, especially the Civic Opposition. I hear the speeches of the New Democracy colleagues on the articles, the law, the government, what they say, very carefully. I wonder, though, will any of the New Democracy colleagues say something about the tampering? I think there is an agreement here - but the government did not bring it - on the vote of the Group of the European People's Party, and there is an agreement on the break-up of the regions. I am surprised that the Union of Centres has vetoed Mr Tsipras. So here we are talking not about arsonism, not turbulence. Because Mr. Leventis vetoed for his own reasons! - we have not brought the 'break-up' of the regions. Otherwise, we're hitting the complication! You've had the consent of all parties and officer opposition, and you haven't brought it. But I want to hear what the New Democracy colleagues say about the bonus. Because what we have said, what our rapporteur, Mr Scandalides, has said, and from the committee, is that it is now a committee that we should sit down and discuss bonuses, which, in our opinion, must be our proposal - you know our proposal - a bonus of thirty seats in a party or a coalition of parties which is going to go to 42%. But we also hear other proposals in the same direction. We could compile them in order to go to ordinary electoral law, which ensures both proportionality and governance. We also heard the proposal from the river. They're very close to us. So why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you really wanted the consensus, do you not do a little further? You should bring this law after a few months. I'm not saying bring him in next year. Because I heard Mrs Gerovali telling us that the elections will take place in 2019. Very nice. Here is a glorious field, then, to sit down, to agree and see what changes we will make to electoral law and what a constitutional review we will make, which is also a major issue. But all I have heard is the Prime Minister again saying that it is time to change the election system for the President of the Republic. There's something strange out there that the former Prime Minister, Mr. Karamanlis, wants to be President and things about Mr. Tsipras, and one and the other. What's this? What exactly are we talking about? What are you pursuing? You play games, nothing else. You're playing the hideout. Not only can you not - because you do not have the possibility, neither the negotiation nor the possibility of governance - to manage the major problems of this country, but we go back, back, and while you have a opposition that does not speak. If what was done about "TRAINOSE", about "COSCO", would not have burned Athens, not for a sale you'd say, but I don't know what you'd say. So you have an Opposition trying to put your back on, and yet you cannot solve the problems. So you bring three articles and say that it is now time to change the political system through a law and through an initiative by the Prime Minister that there should be a referendum. That's funny stuff. We are glad to say that, because I heard and laugh at the seat there, some of the SYRIZA colleagues who told us that we had become a 'heavy' of the New Democracy - that neither the 'heavy' of the New Democracy nor the 'heavy' of SYRIZA. I conclude by saying that we want this committee to be done. You accepted it. Do it now, not after. In this intergroup committee we will be coming with our proposals and with a consensus. What he has not shown he has some kind of consensus, unfortunately, is the government, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u189	Mrs Maria Theleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, because much has been said about the time when this draft law was tabled, I would like to begin with a reminder, perhaps even common sense. In a society that is developing, mutating and evolving, it goes without saying that the needs of both people and law - in our case the needs of the political system and of citizens - do not remain stagnant. From this point of view, today we are discussing an electoral law that attempts to respond to this very change in the socio-political field and more specifically the fact that since 2007 bipartisanism has been a system of change in power, governance, it has closed the cycle of political life. Therefore, from time to time, this draft law has a key character and meets the declared desire of the electorate. It is also emblematic, since, for the first time in our history, it ensures that the parties are represented more proportionally, with the abolition of the 50 seats bonus, and on the other hand adopts a vote at 17. It maintains, in other words, the demands and challenges of the Left and of the more general progressive space, despite the turbulence and contradictions of minor resistance, which expose both the members of the respective parties and their voters. Here I would agree with Mr Scandalidis and with what he said in committee that it is the choice of the electoral system within a democratic culture that is the most important one, given that the basis and form of the constitution determines the popular sovereignty, the people's mandate, since it is the people who decide on the future and its representatives. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are defending as SYRIZA. We defend that what the citizens and citizens of the country will vote on will be expressed in the House. That is exactly what we are defending, ladies and gentlemen, that the will and the vote of citizens and citizens will not be violated through electoral law will not be violated. That is why the neutral political time for tabling and discussing this draft law. It has nothing to do with what we used to do in previous years, during which the laws changed just before the elections and always at the juncture, in order to favour the well-known couple of the parties to the bi-grouping. We, as SYRIZA, want to consolidate the basic rules of the political system, today taking decisive steps towards more proportional representation of parties, which will then be completed on the basis of a more holistic approach through the revision of the Constitution. And what remains open will be discussed precisely in the dialogue that is taking place on the revision of the Constitution, a revision which, in other words, will allow for the redefinition of the basic rules of the political system. We are now coming to see what the positions and positions of counter-population are. I would put a title: "The anticipated refusal of the Great Opposition and the ambiguity or political confusion of the Elssen Opposition". It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, the political position of the New Democracy and we should recognise its stability in the New Democracy. It remains in a conservative and obsolete political view of democracy and, in fact, this obsolete view, embellishes it and supports it with openness. As for openness, I have the following: the term of democracy that creates the conditions for expression and respect of all political parties is cooperation, it is the creation of a common agenda on the basis of common objectives and priorities. In this respect, it requires a different concept and culture, it requires a different way of working and a different approach to things. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that it is really difficult for the New Democracy to change its approach and mode of operation, particularly since it has until recently been an integral part of a political system that had learned to handle or manage the electoral law by working for itself. What else does New Democracy support and support? He argues that the vote at 17 runs counter to the existing Civil Code, since it enables people who do not have full legal rights and criminal responsibilities. This does not mean, however, that we must link this with the right to vote. I should like to mention here, in theory, that the process of full integration into the status of citizens and citizens is a process which does not take place intact and disgraceful in the existing legislative framework. Access to and exercise of the rights of the citizen or of the'state', as it was called by Angel Elephant, is being carried out - and rightly - in the light of the fact that it includes not only civil rights, but also social and urban and economic and labour. The New Democracy approach is therefore one-sided, since it approximates the concept of citizens with strict legal and legal frameworks and in a static way, while, as you know, the concept of political science is not only based on the legal dimension in the concept of civil rights, but also on the political dimension, namely the right to vote, to elect, the right to political participation, and so on. So the notion of citizen and citizen should not be understood as an identity that is stable and unchanged, but as an identity that is evolving and redefined. And here, let's go back to the past and see how we had the right to vote for both women and the vote at 18. And in that sense we also have the enrichment of the concept of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would like to see a little bit of how bi-party parties, which have not been consistent in the end, are astonished today. And here I would like to refer to the river and the Democratic Integration and the PASOK. Despite the opposite of their positions and, above all, the contradictions of their positions and positions on the electoral law, until first they were inclined, not only rhetoric but also through the submission of their 2015 proposal, in favour of mere proportionalness. Now, however, who are before the dilemma "simply proportional or bonuses of the fifty seats" choose the second, despite the fact that they are theoretically denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u191	Mrs. Thalerite, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u192	I'm done. I will not go into the importance and meaning of the abolition of the bonus, but what I would like to say in closing, is that today the more proportional representation of the parties and this draft law, which introduces simple analogue, abolishes the bonus and gives the right to vote at 17, creates the conditions for a wider representation of citizens and citizens for greater pluralism. For us democracy is pluralism and not pluralism and misleading and mainly based on falsification of the political will of the citizens. Yes, we agree that it poses difficulties, but at the same time it opens the way for the active participation of the citizens, for the responsibility of the governments as well, because this is the situation in the electorate today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u193	Mrs. Thelerite, please, get it completed. You've already exceeded eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u194	I'll be done. Today, politics and politicians are questioned and are not convinced, because today citizens prefer to abstain, knowing that the real meaning and substance of the elections are at risk at another level and context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u195	Thank you. Mr Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy. Two other speakers will follow, and then Mr Dritsa will speak, who has asked for the floor from 22: 00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really impossible to monitor SYRIZA's obvic transformations. A moment ago in the Chamber - unfortunately it has gone now - Mr. Kourublis, apart from tears, Mr. Varvitsiotis, gave us a great deal of talk on the subject of patriotism and how we cannot divide Greeks into patriots and non-patriots and all the rest. You heard them, Mr Balafa, I imagine. To understand today, Mr. Tsipras met Mr. George Papandreou for two hours. Your partner in power, Mr. Kammenos, do you know what Mr. George Papandreou said in this House? First he started to say "broker" and then he told the Greek people that George Papandreou put us in the memorandum for purpose, to sell CDS he, his brother, his mother, and five - six others of his family, and that he put us in the memorandum George Papandreou made money. And that's why he called him a broker. And after the broker proceeded to the german and Pelig and the rest. With this, Mr. Kammenos, you are also running the same time Mr. Tsipras sits two hours with Mr. George Papandreou and they discuss the salvation of Europe and Greece! If someone breaks out of your political homicide, he'll get a prize! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now listen, because this has to do with electoral law. What is your argument to tell us that the simple analogue is the key and fair system of the Left? In adventurously, how important it is for the country, how far-reaching and how reformative, you understood it after you were in the second place of the polls. Because as long as you were first in polling and you were sure that you were winning the elections, then you were telling us that you cannot deal with the simple analogue, because you are negotiating hard, as if the tough negotiation prevented you from coming to Parliament and voting on the simple analogue. But when, in addition to the tough negotiation, you went to the second place in the polls and gradually to a two-digit difference rate from the New Democracy, then you suddenly remembered the leftist sensitivities of the mere analogy. Evidently by accident! But I'll come to the first. What is your main argument? What does Mr. Tsipras say? He says the simple analogue will lead to a government of partnerships. But first and foremost, with the electoral system we have now, we have set up governments for cooperation. And the Papademos government was a co-operation government and the Samara - Venizelos government was a co-operation government and the Tsipra - Kammenos government is a co-operation government. What does that mean? That the present electoral system does not prevent them from becoming co-operation governments. But what does the present electoral system do? What is the bonus, the number of which we can discuss, on the substance of it? What's he doing? It ensures that the first party is a mandatory member of government. Let us imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that, as you are voting on today, in the September elections and that we made a good government, with SYRIZA winning seven and a half units and a civil opposition! Because if you put down the seats, you will find that we could well build a government with the second, third, fourth and fifth parties and leave SYRIZA, the first with seven and a half units, to be in opposition. I ask you: could such a government in Greece have political legitimacy and govern? Obviously not. What did the other Minister say? But Germany - says - has a simple analogue. Why don't you like Germany? Indeed, it is true that in Germany there is a mere analogy. What didn't the Minister say? That the simple analogue is applied with an input limit of 5%. Why with an input limit of 5%, what does Germany achieve? To have a few parties in the House and no party of opportunity. While in Greece, 3% are now talking about taking it to 2.5%, to help your partner, the one you called germans, brokers, etc. Papandreou, but "we must not divide the Greeks into patriots and non-patriots, because that is not good". Get the fuck out of here! You want to take it 2.5%. And just proportional and 2.5%! Where is this in the world? Nowhere. Why isn't there anywhere? Because it's suicide. Why is it suicide? Because it's never gonna be a government. What are your real motives to get one last argument? You won the election in September. You are - it says - the party you want the partnerships. And as a result of the miracle you have not discussed with any party to cooperate. You went straight with Kammenos. Why did you go straight with Kammenos? Did you have any terrible ideological affinity or any terrible ideological continuity with Panos Kammenos? Do you suddenly understand how far left he is and did you with him direct government? Obviously not. You had him, because he's easy, too. That's why you did with him. In fact, you're ruled by yourself. He's the one with the Department of Defense, and he's happy, and he's voting for it all. Why, since you were in favour of partnerships, did you not approach September and the other parties that were closer ideologically close to you to discuss? I am referring to PASOK, - I know - on the Potami and any other parties who define themselves as the Central Left. Because you were never interested in cooperation. The political hegemony was of interest to you. Just now you need to find a way to have political hegemony beings second, and now the answer to the question is: "Ah, we're left and left, you guys. We have the simple analogue we want to vote on. Where did we forget it?" And that's how the conversation was born on simple analogy. In fact, what do you want to do? Mr Tsipras understands - because for many things one can blame him, for a foolishness, certainly not - that when elections take place, he will lose. So he tells you, when I lose, if he becomes some kind of exam, and Varoufakis comes here and says what he says in his books and in the channels, and Galbraith comes in and tells Parliament's exam, what he says in his interviews in the channels, what's going to happen? Oh, well, let's check the developments in the next House. How are we going to monitor developments in the next House? We will pass the simple analogue with two hundred votes so that it is certain that the government will have both Syriza and Syriza next time to secure the immunity we need. But note, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, from everything, it turns out, two hundred votes are not going to be taken, but I want to answer one last point, and I am closing down, Mr President. Do I read a few hours of commemoration by Mr Zachariadis, who is a secretary of Parliament's group? What exactly is it? I don't remember the title.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u197	Director.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u198	Director, I'm sorry. It celebrates the fact that the Golden Dawn decided to abstain from the vote and therefore the myth of SYRIZA - Golden Dawn co-operation collapses. Yes, sir. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Kourublis, when the day before yesterday's show by Mr. Evia at the "SKAI" said that they have a hundred ninety-seven votes, did you hear him? Mr. Kourublis when he told SKAI that we have a hundred ninety-seven and we're looking for the last three, in what hundred ninety-seven was he referring to, you guys? Leave it now. We get it. Two hundred votes don't come out and the others go out, so that you don't get on you and the champagne that you're going to go to hell with the Golden Dawn. Of course, if you were to find two hundred votes and the Golden Dawn voted, you would have the double votes and then, as Mr. Voutsis said, what would you do? As good leftists, you cannot distinguish votes to welcome and unacceptable. Jointly, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have awakened. Fortunately, Parliament will not make you the gift of becoming your accomplice to these treacherous and oppressive plans to maintain your political hegemony and after the Greek people have blacked you in the upcoming elections, the next Parliament will elect a firm government and change this electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Diaras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the simple analogue or better the proportional representation of the parties in the House, as the title of the bill writes. I'll try to stand up to the essence of the bill and not to expand on what one of them says and what another says. In normal, fair analogue, the will of the people must be represented without any intervention or distortion of proportionality. This means proportional distribution of seats at national level, proportional distribution in regions, proportional distribution in laws as best technically possible. As a member of the Greens and associated with SYRIZA, I have an obligation to pass to plenary the proposal from the Greens on the electoral system which is: abolition of the bonus of the fifty seats, not on the limit of 3% of the parties to the House; and that is a differentiation of the Greens from the proposal - smaller electoral regions so that people can know the candidates in close cooperation and not just through the media, which we know, a smaller age limit on the right to vote. This is the proposal from the Greens, which I had to convey. The electoral system of simple proportionality presupposes a culture of partnership. If we don't have it, we have to get it. Those who want the good of the country and of the citizens, those who put the good of the country and of the citizens above the electoral party interest must learn to cooperate and move on to programme convergences. Where agreeing to make self-evident, compose proposals and improve laws, institutions and society. Where there are disagreements, but not uncertain differences, to develop the dialogue on programming conflicts. Where there are great and unblemished disagreements, arising from ideological and class positions, to make their disagreements clear to the Greek people with the elections, even by referendums. This is the function of democracy. But we have to accept one truth: Changes that will withstand time are those which have wider social and political consensus, not only 51% of parliamentary power, but even greater acceptance and majority in the people and Parliament. Anyone who is not ready for programme convergences and co-operation governments is absolved of the functional aspect of the mere analogous. It goes without saying that the Left and Ecology will pursue strategies of progressive alliance, aimed at a fair society and sustainability at every level, nature, economy and society. This does not mean that there can be no alliances with conservative forces when the national need imposes it. The proportional electoral system is not an end in itself, but it is a clean, honest way of expressing the popular will. It is the first stage in the process of democratic expression. The second stage is governance and efficiency, it is the creation of a government based on a broader parliamentary majority and a large social majority. If the first stage of full proportionality does not ensure the second stage of governance, the mere proportionality will not be beneficial. That is why I draw attention to the value of the ongoing dialogue on programme shocks of those who express popular interests and have a full sense of responsibility towards home, young and future generations. I am sure that sincere and constructive dialogue within Parliament is the only way to bring back the social and productive forces, all the citizens who now do not participate in the commons, nor even go to vote. To give space to young people who feel that the current political system is not in a position to represent their ideas and opinions. The support of the Greens in abolishing the 3% threshold for party entry to the House also has the meaning of the expression in the House of new ideological streams of youth, which are not sensitive to existing parties. The political ecology and part of the Left believes that the expansion of democracy needs many more changes, structural changes, combining population, administrative and productive decentralisation with functions of direct democracy. The cooperation of political forces with wider consensus, wherever possible, is the one that will give a message of unity to the citizens, enhance political speech and give a new meaning to the notion of participation in the public. Today, with this law, let us agree where we agree. The PASOK, the JRC, the Potami, the Centro Association, let them vote on what is agreed and leave the case on intent. Things are set out in concrete terms and we will vote on them. The New Democracy says that we want to steal votes with the electoral law that abolishes the bonus of the fifty seats. It is a logic of irrationality, which I cannot understand. Many years with rushfetti they wanted to steal the votes of the Greek people. Now they're doing it by maintaining the bonus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u201	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance. Then Mr. Drits will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, electoral law cannot be the result of short-term majority voting and minority voting, as our Constitution demands and as democracy requires. It cannot happen particularly in Greece today, with all the positive and negative experiences of the past, from the ventilating systems of the 1950s to those which led to three-fold elections, in order that there will be a relative majority at a time when more consensus is needed to get the country out of the multi-faceted crisis it is experiencing. What one would expect was that a substantial dialogue should take precedence and that the political forces should be broadly converged. None of this, however, has happened but only an attempt to secure consensus. That is why we have denounced from the outset the manners, tricks and tactics of the government, which attempt to involve fragmentary intervention in the electoral law. The very large constituencies remain intact and do not deal with chronic issues, such as the vote of foreigners and the representation of the homosexuals. We amplify the party feasibility of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, claiming the excess bonus of the fifty seats each for themselves. The New Democracy, which has been publicly precedented - and the government accepts it - has been tightened up by the idea of a fifty-seat bonus. SYRIZA, who, from the outset and according to his ministers' statements, is second, wants to take as a second the fifty seats, which he has taken twice as well, in January 2015 and September 2015. All this is not a political position of responsibility to the people for today and the future. All of this is a fraudulent policy, which also accounts for both of us. That is what this is about: who will take the dowry! We call on both, New Democracy and SYRIZA, to leave extreme positions and party purposes and to come to the level of understanding. The Democratic Integration with a sense of responsibility has tabled a democratic proposal on the electoral system, which ensures proportional representation and prevents intergovernmentalism. It is the known ‘proposal of the five points’. We are proposing, firstly, the abolition of the excess bonus of fifty seats and the introduction of less - twenty-five to thirty seats - on conditions which Kostas Scandalidis has analysed. Secondly, a vote on those who complete the seventeen. There is no point in the New Democracy's argument that we are going to the sixteen. We're talking about those who complete the seventeen. Thirdly, the division of the very large constituencies, at least in Athens and Attica. Fourthly, maintaining the entry limit in Parliament of 3%. Fifthly, the vote on the foreigners and the representative of the people of Parliament, which are two different things. But let's see the government's arguments: The Minister of Interior, Mr. Kourublis, has called on the parties of the Hellenic Anti-Policy, in particular PASOK, to vote for the electoral law proposed by the government, so that Mr Mitsotakis does not take the 50 seats. In fact, he said: "Don't be a tail of Mitsotakis". We have to say, first of all, Mr Kurubli, when you were the rapporteur for the bonus proposal twenty-three to thirty seats and partitioning the big regions, that is, a proposal similar to ours, were you the tail of Mitsotakis? Did you give him fifty seats? If I was a majority in SYRIZA's collective bodies, then would SYRIZA be Mitsotakis' tail? What are you talking about today? Was this statement, which you had made, the result of an anguish, that it really is in the field that simple analogues have formed can lead to insolence as well? And that's okay. Why did you make the partition of the regions arrogant? What interests led to the government deciding - which was flagged by you, Mr Kurubli - not to speak today about partitioning? Can you explain it to us? Mr Kurublis, the second thing I want to say is that it is honest to recognise directly that, whenever the next elections take place, SYRIZA will be a second party, to tell us our tail of the first. So you're slandering us with what you're saying as a geek you've become after your mutation after your apostasy, because you've not been deleted, you've been distilled. You have, if you remember, when you signed the amendment on Porto Carras. What you were saying undoing it just to keep your ministerial court or is it so great that of collective decisions? If your faith in collective decisions is so great, why did you publicly table the proposal and did not expect the collective decisions? But let's go to the Prime Minister. Mr. Tsipras and all his ministers claim that elections will take place in 2019. So, three years before 2019, I suppose there are two, three months - at least a few weeks - to have a dialogue, to have a consensus, to build confidence and find the common place with the widest possible consensus. What is the precursor to put an end to the issue, to leave the large regions intact, not to solve the problem of foreigners' vote? On what grounds? The lack of time? And 'we do not have time', but 'elections will take place in 2019'? Either one or the other is a lie. Clear! You can't lie two, just one! Red line was set by SYRIZA - ANEL and the Central Association for the 3% limit. Well, SYRIZA and ANEL, as usual, from the red lines go to the pink ribbons. Now you, Mr. Leventis, in the pink? That sketch of Mr. Flambury showing you in Mr. Tsipras' pocket as a posset was it real? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the government must, even now, follow the proposal that we have tabled, but it is essentially a demand from the majority of citizens: dialogue, consultation and confidence building. We need to see all the issues of electoral law, move on to a broad acceptance system that will give the best for Greece and the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u203	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u204	I'm sure Panagiotis Kourublis doesn't need my defence, but his vulgarity is also beyond any previous. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the right rhetoric has not always been market and misguided. He had periods that were authoritarian, conservative, reactionary, but it was also serious. Now it's about downhill. Parapolitical, market lines! And there's PASOK behind it. This is the level of a very fragmented political system, in which the political forces must strive to find these ways to give Greek society, trying to find its serious compositions and effective directions, the opportunity to express itself. What is the best tool to start unfolding this bucket of the decline of a traditional political system that was degraded and its symptoms? Is that what we heard from Mrs Vultesis, from Mr Varvitsiotis, from Mr Georgiadis, now from Mr Kegeroglou and many others? Politics is the demand. What instrument can be the solid ground in principle to start such reconstruction in order to encourage and strengthen proportional representation, the presumption of maximum proportionality in representation? For the right is clear, things have never been with the simple analogue. He's always been with the ventilating systems. The PASOK along the way, when it became a powerful power, mutated it as well and did not choose the simple analogue ever along its path, and could do so at that time. So this is also registered in the category of those political forces that have strengthened and encouraged and perpetuated the petty systems. These are historically recorded events. It's not a intent trial, it's supposed now that SYRIZA has purpose. Let him have all the purposes SYRIZA wants. And? Is this the case or is it not? On a government initiative, does the Greek Parliament raise or does it not raise the question of moving forward with the establishment of a proportional system and through this looking in democratic terms for the rebuilding of our country's political and political fields and encouraging the maximum possible participation of citizens and responsibility for them? How are we gonna get through the fragmentation? How are we going to overcome the division? How are we going to overcome all these negative situations in which the economic crisis, the policy crisis, followed by at least twenty years, has led to the place where they led him? Magic? Only with policies initiatives? Will we not allow society to be expressed? Today, then, when Parliament has the opportunity, this must be dealt with. Yes, there are great constituencies. Why is that so innocent? If the large constituencies are to be cut, is it necessarily fully democratic and proportionate? We all know - not to represent the desulphurisers - how many traps this fragmentation may have, but in terms that ensure correct directions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We have all the opportunity to investigate this in front of us. Now, however, we must establish the proportionality of the basic. And let me tell you one last thing because my time has run out. Who said that the electoral system mandatory and by definition shapes the election result in a way that was supposedly inspired by its designers? Yeah, well-meaning systems intercept votes. However, the simple analogue enables the citizen to act self-activate and act on possibilities that the previous systems did not give him, such as the criterion of cyberdynamicity, not on artificial prefabricated terms, but on democratic terms that will be undertaken by the Greek society to shape them, as long as the people and society consider that this is necessary and to show the most powerful first party in these circumstances. The others are just petty, miserable, tactical, not responding to any fundamental political problem, and they do confirm that these forces are the forces of the past and the forces that have been overtaken by history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Gregos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard a spokesman from the New Democracy saying that the people have awakened and will be blackened by SYRIZA. It must be certain that the people who woke up - not entirely, of course, will also wake up the rest of the people - will "black" both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, of course. Minister, you referred to a callopath. Ask us what happens in such cases and what happens with the elections in Greece. Because if we imagine the election campaign in Greece and we have the parties at a common starting point to start all parties running hypothetically, the candidates of the Golden Dawn will not start in the same pattern, because they simply have restrictive conditions. They cannot address the Greek people. They have no funding, of course, and the result of all this is Golden Dawn instead of reducing its power, increasing it daily. You spoke of the electoral law. One who does not know what is happening in Greece right now would think by attending this sitting that we are discussing an electoral law based on popular sovereignty and representation. As far as democracy is concerned, in this country, the third political force is deprived of its basic democratic rights, its MPs are, of course, illegally imprisoned, murdered and targeted, persecuted, in every way, MPs, as I said before, have unprecedentedly restrictive conditions, mutilated daily by the media, the means of interlocutory, have been deprived of any kind of funding, yet they are elected by hundreds of thousands of votes, again and again, even through the prison cells in a regime called 'democracy'. "Democracy" is a word used by the parties of the so-called constitutional arch. But listen well and know it, the Golden Dawn has very deep roots. The Golden Dawn is everywhere and is the most healthy part of this country. It has the support of the Greeks, and it is absolutely solid and strong. We are the only ones to express the popular will. We are the only ones to fight for holy and loyal. We are told 'fascists' and 'formation'. But the same descriptions are given to you by us and our supporters, but with evidence and documentaries. You dare talk about democracy, you who are mocking every time the Constitution, you who are running contrary to national interests, you who have not yet given any reason for any kind of felony - we are still waiting for the stolen ones to come back - you who do not dare referendum on illegal immigrants or our national issues, you who only care about your chairs and the 7,000 euros that go every month into your already infamous accounts, you who have illegally relinquished thousands of foreigners and are now denying this right to their fellow citizens. We shall be tabling an amendment to ensure that there is also one in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are talking about democracy, you who have filled the country with illegal immigrants and dream of the Islamization of the country, you who are dived to the neck in corruption and strife, you who are even plucking away history for the sake of a fake peace, you of the New Democracy and of the SYRIZA, you of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, do not matter. We have said again and the Greek people must understand that there are no differences between these two parties. Same interests, same mode of action, same projects for the country. Some idiots on the channels of interlocutory - your big bosses, that is - dared to say that Golden Dawn will be written with the New Democracy or SYRIZA. Such political infection that leads to a gangrene, we will never make it. Every day throughout the territory we give a great event, door - door, from neighborhood to neighborhood, from square to square where you dare not show up. You're hiding or leaving on the run. As the competitor Kassidiaris said, we were the ones who broke down the junta of Samaras and Venizelos, a junta which in the days was violently devastated by the Constitution and the civilisation, which you supposedly defend. We will do the same every time in the common interest by carrying out the people's mandate. Your so-called democratic governments designate committees of inquiry, but no one ever goes to prison. And no one has given a reason for the thousands of dead who leave behind the policies you implement. In a so-called civilised and democratic country there are unheards in neighborhoods and university institutions, unbaptised in which large quantities of drugs and weapons are moved, unbaptised as centres for training terrorists and all kinds of criminals, with the tolerance of naturally the government that states that it is unable to defend the health and safety of citizens and the property of individuals and public property. It was like this in the New Democracy and in the PASOK. The same goes for SYRIZA. And of course, it will continue to apply. No electoral law can give you any legitimacy. You are not speaking on behalf of the Greek people. Every attempt of you to destroy the concept of the state and the institutions will turn against you. We also warn once again that you dare not touch the 3% limit, because the traitor's stack leaves with nothing. Greek youth supports Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn is fighting for Greek youth, at ages much smaller than that of seventeen. We see this every day, but it is also reflected in the public opinion findings. Equally great is the support of the homosexuals, with whom we are in daily contact all over the world. You have reason to want some election cooking. You have reason to want to disorientate the people. There are thousands of reasons why we should be in front of you in a rabies political struggle that will certainly be victorious to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. They once asked Kolokotronis: “You, General, with whom are you going? Are you an Englishman?" "No" Responded Moria's Older. "Then, you will be French-speaking." "Neither has he been reapproved. 'Are you Russian?'. 'Neither is this.' "But then what are you? " And Moria's Old man with his usual remembrance answered: "I was and will always be theophile, because as God no one loves Greece." So we, as Golden Dawn, are neither systolic nor neo-democratic. We're only with the Greek people. Because Golden Dawn is a party born of the Greek people and only addressed to the Greek people. Listen to me. We're not gonna give it to anyone. Sailors in your policy of navy, we will not be. We in traitors don't discriminate. We have proved this in the past when we dropped New Democracy from the Government in the vote of the President of the Republic. We'll do the same now. Because we believe that SYRIZA is the continuation of the New Democracy. You are, that is, as submissive to foreigners as to domestic loan sharks. And you must immediately fall by the government. These days, too many approached us. We've heard a lot of things. Some people have told us that it would be better to vote for this electoral law, because with the simple analogue Golden Dawn it will be more Members. How little they know us! It seems that those who told us these things have not understood that the Golden Dawn is not interested in being twenty, twenty-five or fifteen MPs in the House. All we care about is being consistent with the Greek people. Some others told us not to vote for the electoral law, because there would be powerlessness. Anyone who believes that is at least naive. All Greeks must finally understand that in here you are a clique and as such you are working. If New Democracy needs to collide with SYRIZA, it will. After all, you have voted together on the narcotic memos and implementing laws. Together you passed the anti-racist law. Kyriakos first and best was the one who voted for the symbiosis pact. Together you sell Greece and dismantle the national state. We heard the other one. We were told that without the 50-seat bonus Golden Dawn would never have any prospect of getting the government, because at the time we don't work with anyone, it's hard to get 51% and form a majority. They're naive! Because it is certain that when the democrats in here see that the Golden Dawn is coming first party, not only will they abolish the bonus of the fifty seats, but they will give it to the second and third parties, provided that we do not take it, as you did in here and for the Vice-President of the Parliament, where you voted - through democratic always procedures - not to be Vice-President of the third political party, but to have the tenth? Where's the river? He's over there now. Also, all together in this House, always democratically, voted on any party being persecuted as a criminal organisation not to receive state funding. Of course, when you need the votes of the Golden Dawn, you forget about the criminal organization and fascism that you blame us for and you are licking us about what we are going to vote on. If you had to cut off some state funding, then you should have cut off your parties, which are stuck in the hatreds and which have criminalised against the Greek people, who have managed to be first in suicides, first in unemployment, who have left the borders open and have entered all the tribes of Israel in our country. The only criminal organization in this House is the party of the political parties. We, as Chrysayites, have sworn this party to dismantle it. So we will not vote for this electoral law. We will not vote for a law that the Greek expatriates see to be entitled to vote. It is incomprehensible in Greece of 2016 that Greeks abroad do not have the right to vote and have the right to vote within Greece of every kind of illegal immigrants who have invaded our country. The other day, I was talking to a police officer and he told me attributes: “If you see who we're giving IDs! We can't even agree! We do not know in which language to speak to them!' We are also not going to vote for him because it does not provide for the reduction of Members. It is incomprehensible that there will be three hundred MPs in Greece. Another key reason why we will not vote in favour is that Tsipras brought that electoral speech to the vote at this time in order to serve his micro-political games. Because if he really wanted the simple analogue, he would have brought him back in January, after the elections, and not now that he sees the collapse of the polls. In closing, listen to it all, in and out of Parliament: All we care about is getting the Golden Dawn well. Because if the Golden Dawn goes well, then our homeland will be fine. Only by Golden Dawn will the Greek people overcome their fears, rise their standing and understand their value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u209	Mrs Antoniou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, at the SYRIZA co-government theatre - ANEL this week, the show is about electoral law. The government, by continuing its communication games on the altar of its small-party interests, seeks from the next elections to establish a simple proportional electoral system to help - they say - argue - to cooperate between the parties. When did you ask, Minister, for wider parties? January or September? But as many times as there was a meeting of political leaders, Mr. Tsipras was lying. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is true and trust, not the electoral system, which, if applied, can be the key to opening the gates of hell, which will lead to intergovernmentality and economic, political and social collapse. So the government is desperately seeking to find the two hundred who will seduce them the sacred totem of the left, the simple analogue, and will widen their signature to the country's destruction. Of course, there are always willing, for their own reasons, each, such as the Centro Association, moving from the anti-right, anti-nostic, anti-nostalgic vile that its Chief has and a few independents. This creates the explosive mixture of the heterogeneous allies, which threatens to make the country Kugi, as long as they ensure their political future. But why does the government choose at this time to throw the ball at the stage by means of the electoral law? Two are the reasons. The first is that this electoral law acts as a tobacco law, a tobacco that tries to mask the grim social and economic situation and disorientate public opinion. At the time when Greeks and Greeks start to feel the effects of the criminal negotiation of Tsipras - Varoufakis and finally agreement with lenders, when overtaxation leads to a stop to payments of more and more Greeks, resulting in the impoverishment of households and the economic suffocation of public and insurance funds, the time that the EKT is abolishing to hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens and the IKA begins to give pensions of the order of 100 euros, based on the insurance reform of the SYRIZA - ANEL, while in front of us the assessment of the autumn and of the worst has worsened and the depth of the frustration of our people's hopes, while, as SYRIZA has managed to do in the refugee, the hot spots will flood our country, the black time that clouds of geopolitical instability instability, even though it is covering the Mediterranean - rather than the latter ones - and the latter ones - must be told about it has become afloom, even worse than the country's of the latter one. Who? The ones who until yesterday called either graphics or german germans or fascists. But there is one more reason why the electoral law is now coming and that is no more than the collapse of the SYRIZA. The government finds, ladies and gentlemen, that it is obviously not a long day to come back to where SYRIZA really belongs, to the left of chaos and 3% and who believe that with just proportional and perhaps an election surprise they will salvage political honors of power. But, really, who are they surprised? As a new Republic, we are now calling for elections. And they don't see, so, with simple analogues, they're going to lose more easily those who don't ideologically identify them and just misled themselves from their lies? Unless you're just looking for a way out. But you can do that without ruining the country. And I say all the above, ladies and gentlemen, because we live in strange and dangerous days. And I'll tell what I mean. The government inactivates or dismantles the independent authorities, such as the National Broadcasting Council, and shares the licenses of television channels at the offices of the Ministers, while, under the pretext of combating corruption, it intervenes in independent justice. And the Prime Minister himself speaks in an interview with jury judges, as if he was passive, without saying names and mainly without saying what he did to strike the jury as the country's chief prime minister. Unless Mr. Tsipras is only to make selfies with smiling faces, as he did in the Chamber of Adolescents, forgetting, of course, that Greece is neither going to be North Korea, because in the end this must prove by the vote of the day after tomorrow every democrat. That is why I urge all the democrats to vote against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u211	Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a number of phases of discussion of the electoral law, the government has finally tabled a draft, which is obviously not the simple and inappropriate analogous to which the Left has been speaking for all previous years. Maintaining the 3% plan makes it a mere actuarial plan. What is the difference with the current electoral system? It's the dismantling of the bonus. Why is the bonus granted? It is being given, so that the first party can acquire parliamentary self-reliance or strengthen the majority, thus forming a torso for a co-legislative government. Let us see how this House would be based on the results of the September elections: instead of eight parties it would be fifteen. Today, then, seven parties that gather a respectable percentage are out of parliament. I mean, there's finally the bonus, it's kept in practice. How? If, for example, the parties that do not enter the House - holding 3% with which I agree with, but I will say below - assembled 10%, they would take thirty seats. These thirty seats are a special bonus, which is where it goes? It's not just going to the first party. He goes to the first party and goes to the other parties. How would this bonus be granted on the basis of the September elections? These parties that did not enter the House would take twenty seats. The 20 seats would be divided as follows: eight in the first party, six in the second and one seat in the third, in the fifth, in the sixth, in the seventh and eighth parties. That would be the distribution. So, once that threshold exists, we have to agree that some seats will be lost. I come to answer another question. It is also heard by SYRIZA colleagues, but also by other parties that support this draft law: "But on this initiative SYRIZA loses the bonus of the fifty seats". Excuse me, colleagues. He's losing what he doesn't have. It does not appear from anywhere that SYRIZA today is and will be the first party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u213	Today we have elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u214	I say if we had elections today. We're supposed to be talking. Of course, Mr Leventis's continued reference shows that those who do not vote for this draft law actually give fifty seats to Mr Mitsotakis. It's the best assumption of exactly how things are. But what does SYRIZA do for himself? Because it calculates that it will be a second party, with this change in fact the second party actually presupposes the second party. And how much does he pay for it? From 15 to 20 seats. Therefore, with this change the first bonus party loses, the second party is being strengthened, with the current ones. So here I would like to say - because we are talking about cooperation now - whether this cooperation is made by choice or by need. If cooperation is from an option, who can disagree? Who is preventing the government today from expanding the government's majority? This, of course, would mean concessions, concessions to the party or parties in new cooperation, and it does not, because it obviously does not think that is a good thing today, it does not consider it necessary. Let us take a look at the results of 2012 and then, if the electoral law, which you are bringing, ladies and gentlemen, was the case today: In May 2012, SYRIZA along with DIMMAR and PASOK would collect 134 seats, so a fourth party was needed to have a majority. And of course, what does that mean? You'll tell me why I'm telling these parties. They were the Central Left parties. If we're talking about schedule shocks. Because if anyone's going to work with anyone, we're going to go to another logic. If we are talking about elementary scheduling, then we see the difficulty. Let's go to June. The same shape would gather 145 seats. Again, we would need an extra party. If we go to January 2015, SYRIZA, PASOK and the Potami would only collect 154 seats. And in September 2015, SYRIZA, PASOK and Potami would collect 147 seats. It would still take a quarter of a party. Do you think that these calculations - which do not stand in theory, on paper - can apply in practice, can give strong governments to solve this country's real problems? I think not. And here, of course, there is a difference of reason. SYRIZA colleagues, you may have been in the governing seat, you may have become a majority in this House, but you have not gained the mindset of the big Party, you do not care about rulership. You have exploited the electoral law twice, you have taken the government and today you are likely to leave in the next election, you are in danger of losing your dignity. Why? Why have you been caught by terror and fear not to hand over power? But that's gonna happen anyway. Whatever you do, sometime it's gonna happen. It is normal in democracy for the parties to change. Why do we have to go to reasonable Koutsogiorgas and Tsohatzopoulos, when the New Democracy of Constantine Mitsotakis reached 47%, 48%, to have just 150 seats? Why do you resort to such attitudes? For example, for Mr Leventis in 1989 he participated in the New Democracy ballots. Do you know what excuse? In order to address the problem of electoral law that was engaging in the self-responsibility of the first party. Then, Constantine Mitsotakis had to be supported. Today, completely, quite different things are said. So we need an elementary consistency. And because we're all gonna find it here, and because I'm starting to question whether we're in neutral time, I'm expecting the evolution of events. The facts will show what were the real intentions and why you are currently bringing this electoral law. The sure thing is that you take the full responsibility, even if it will not be voted on by 200 votes, so it will not apply from the next elections. You are fully responsible for the political responsibility you have created with this initiative. And, of course, I want to close by saying that obviously, we cannot support such an initiative, which has no beginning, it has no means, it has no end. You don't know why you started - or at least you don't tell us - and you don't tell us exactly where you want to go. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u215	Thank you. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the paths of the country's political system is the fact that, until now, the ruling party has changed the electoral law according to its alleged electoral interest. Thus, in the context of the rotation of the parties to the past, the country's governance, the ruling party changed the electoral law a little bit before the elections and according to the prediction of their outcome. The draft law on simple analogues and voting at seventeen is tabled in politically neutral, unsubstantiated time, which does not go on with the time of the next elections. The Government has already opened its own papers, since the introduction of the system of simple proportional representation has been a pre-election commitment of the SYRIZA "three and..." years before the end of the term of office of this Parliament. Therefore, there is no thought of serving micro-political purposes by the present government. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the simple analogue system has been a consistent and time-consuming demand from the Left, which has re-established its establishment on a key issue. The simple analogue should not be treated as a technical problem of numbers and the correlations between the parliamentary forces. Simple analogue is a deeply political element, with multiple dimensions and functions: The symbolic democratic dimension, since the simple analogue through which the real will of the electorate is reflected, sends a message of respect for popular sovereignty. The institutional dimension, after abolishing the enhanced proportionality, ceases to change the vote of the citizen and the lack of popular legitimacy of its elected representatives. In addition, institutional functioning, implemented, can contribute to the institutional reconstruction of the country and the redeployment of the political scene. Its constitutional dimension, since the simple analogue without directly resulting from the principle of equality is linked to its basic philosophy, whose equivalence and equivalence of vote are its expressions. They have the effect of matching the popular will with representation in Parliament. And finally, its educational function, since through it and hence equal participation in political matters, political parties and citizens are being disciplined in the field of democracy. In the context of democracy, the same conditions and in the context of them that of voting shall constitute one of the conditions. The period that our country has been experiencing for years is not just a period of economic crisis. At the same time, there is also a period of political crisis, with a dominant element, the increasing distrust of citizens against the political system and the question of the functioning of democratic institutions. The feeling that the voice of the citizens is not heard is the permanent inclination of the question. It is therefore high time to restore the credibility of policy and the mutual trust of a citizen - politicians, in order to stabilise the democratic political system through greater and more effective involvement of citizens in political matters. The introduction of a simple proportional system is one of the conditions. In addition, citizens also require the general economic and social conditions to impose positions, convergences and wider alliances, which support both the political positions and the programme proposed by the political forces. The impossibility invoked by the opponents of the simple analogue system as an anti-competition system shall not be established. Political and government stability is not a question of a legislative framework, but of political will, political positions and planning convergences. In addition, the 3% threshold for entry into the Parliament prevents the total fragmentation of political forces and the creation of party-forms that are supported and controlled by business, trade and other interests and also allows for the establishment of co-operation governments based on programming positions. Ladies and gentlemen, the new generation of our country in the competitive environment, where it lives, has access to knowledge and information and representations that allow it to mature much earlier than before and, in addition, to develop the many and rich skills and skills that it certainly has. The fact that it is affected by unemployment, underemployment, the conditions of "jungle" prevailing in the labour market, with the consequence that many young people, especially trained scientists, are forced to emigrate to seek luck, causing bleeding in the Greek economy and society, is "a reason above" to allow this new generation to be involved in shaping its future. The introduction of a simple proportional system and the vote in the seventeen are institutional areas which are part of the country's institutional reconstruction plan. This includes also the institutional areas in administration and justice, but also the constitutional review, in which all the elements that make up the political system as a whole can be put in place. The plan of institutional reconstruction along with the plan of social fair productive reconstruction are the main axes of government policy, which are intended, for the country to leave behind the memorandum period and to change course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I listened carefully to the views of all Members of Parliament in the debate on the electoral law and the arguments put forward, particularly the Qualified Opposition, against the time and the way in which the government brings about a reform of the electoral law. Personally, I would sign the placement of the Minister for Commercial Shipping, Mr. Dritsa. I could repeat it in terms of certain things. I do not want to spoil his position, but I will try to analyse it in my speech, as to why the government has now decided to bring the electoral law. But let me make a few comments. Political extremism characterizes SYRIZA, because - in the view of Officerial Response - the Prime Minister held meetings with political leaders of other parties. In fact, it is to wonder how the New Democracy MPs have applauded this view by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, who has been devoting the New Democracy for years and because, at a time when he was seeing his political end, he decided to assist in the Civilisation - and if you would like me, because the former Chief of the New Democracy had such a tendency. Now they're sitting there applauding him. Really, it's a wonder. Also, from the position of Mr Hatzidakis and from what a political leader said to him, he really did not understand anything from his exhortation. For us, Mr President, the SYRIZA Members, in politics, did not enter into politics to become MPs. We dealt with politics, at a level that the Civic Opposition accuses us of when SYRIZA was 3%. Who imagined from us that at some point the people would force us to meet in parliamentary seats? However, we have not entered policy to become MPs. And we obviously do not consider ourselves to be people who are going to professionalize politics, but with our own assistance and the position that the people have chosen us to build that social relationship between Parliament and society. We are trying, in other words, to be the voice of society in the Greek Parliament. The New Democracy is constantly talking about polling. In fact, he has learned nothing from the short story of elections. Nothing at all has learned. It refers to some polls, some companies, whose owners participate in Mr Mitsotakis' breakfast coffee and come to point to the political scene and the people that these polls are real and have the real mark of society. They also do not recognise the failure of these polls in all the elections between 2012 and today. What we need to understand and where SYRIZA puts it in this bill is that the analysis we made about the crisis is that the crisis is not just economic, but it is politics. This bill places this analysis in reality. Politics is the issue. Politics is the crisis. That is why we are judging our policy. Because the economic crisis has not erupted out of nowhere, without any real mistakes of the past, which both New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis now recognises. So, what's this bill doing? It redefines the citizens' relationship with politics and says that the vote of all citizens, all of the people, must be seen as a uniform and equal one. I don't understand where this new Republic heat is coming from. The New Democracy, of course, has always done this, it has supported these systems. But, to make the PASOK tail of the New Democracy, begging a position at a possible victory of the New Democracy, which in my view will not exist, saying "we made a mistake eight months ago that we tabled a bill, which was the same as what the government now submits", I really don't understand. What did we find out? We have learned that the New Democracy now knows and reads Mr. Varoufakis and Mr. Galbraith. Those whom they have been calling for so long now, are now saying to them, Mr President, in their speeches in the House. For the loan of the Chania newspaper, talk! For Mr. Mitsotakis' partner, talk! For SIEMENS talk. For Mr. Samara's close associate, talk! You have a selective memory. At least we're not lobsters. We don't defend the memory whenever we care and we like it, but we defend the memory as a whole. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I want to be precise. This bill deepens democracy in our country because it defends the equivalence and equivalence of the votes of all Greeks, which the New Democracy does not care about. Of course, with regard to the three issues raised by the New Democracy, we believe that they are buttoned by the constitutional review, which we are defending and which we want to bring and vote on in this House. The vote in the seventeenths, the vote of the homosexuals and the division of the large regions are three different things. For you are afraid of youth - that is a given - their relatives are recognized whenever they are interested in you because you have not done anything about electoral rolls or about the recording of the homogeneous people for so many years that you have exercised authority. And, of course, the constituencies are given that you are defending them, because your relationship with the media is ending. That is why you have such a humour with regard to the large constituencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u219	Mrs. SYRIZA has the floor. Four other speakers will follow, with the last Mrs Megalo-Economics, and the meeting will be completed this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u220	In this Chamber once again we have become listeners of a cheap political speech, which always thinks of evil. I am referring specifically to the main argument put forward by the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, policies of the press and logic of 'three oil, two vinegar, five oil', if you had so many seats, etc., these are cheap political tricks, which belong to the past. You are discounting your reasons that in the next elections you will be the first party and you are relying on it in the polls. What polls? To those who showed last summer that they won 'yes'? To those who showed last September that the New Democracy is a first party, or to those who, on the evening of the English referendum, showed us that Brement is winning and the next morning we woke up with a lovely Brexit? However, this thought and this argument of yours is another example of the manipulation of the Greek people, because you are now benefiting completely from what the people will do in September 2019 when there will be real elections. Look, with these tricks, politics, manipulation, discounting and intimidation of the Greek people, we must once and for all end! I would like to make a second comment on the Democratic Reconciliation. I am raising a 'why' against the fucking bill, which you commit with this bill. On 14 and 15 May this year, a few months ago, there was a conference of the Democratic Reconciliation, where within the fifty proposals that they tabled clearly spoke of a simple analogue. And today they come and tell us "not just proportional" and they are in favour of the bonus of the fifty seats, and they are normally made in the new Republic's pigeon. Are you building on who you are going to confront in the next election? With the people you colluded by January 2015? I'm leaving the river in business. Personally, I regret that a new party which says that it defends the principles of democracy, condemns it in practice. In the face of all these logics, which I once again say count votes, how many will be, how many will not be, because now, who will be the first, who will be the second after three years, we are still legislating on the basis of the principles of the Left. The simple analogue is the Left's request for at least forty-five years. In this Chamber we should at last sit down and think about whether we want democracy, what kind of democracy, if we want Parliament, what kind of Parliament, and what Parliament will be dealing with with the electorate. I do not know whether we have all realised that each of us represents or should represent thousands of our fellow citizens. Each and every one of us are also consumable. When we stop expressing the thousands of our fellow citizens, we also stop being MPs. Everyone who perceives Parliament as a large national assembly, in which important decisions are taken on the fate of the country and its citizens, is being dismayed by the idea of non-representativeness. Each of the fifty extra Members who, by means of a tactic, holds one of the fifty seats in Parliament - and at the moment, to say it, happens to be members of the SYRIZA, the overnumbers - each of us who does not represent a real vote of citizens should feel bad about its existence in Parliament. For all of us, who are proposing and supporting this draft law of the utmost importance is the complete, inmediate, genuine expression of the will of the people and within the House. It is important - we will say this again - that the parliamentary representation of the parties is fully matched with the power that these parties have outside in society. If we continue and keep the 50 seats bonus, then we continue to break the direct relationship that every citizen should feel has with each of us. This relationship of confidence we want to heal it with both concepts of the term, namely, and restore it and serve it. The citizens, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and New Democracy, have been bored of lies. And one reason why they're removed from politics is precisely because they're fed up with lies, they're fed up with insinuating politicians. And just as a lie, personally, I understand your argument that if we install the simple analogue, then the country is at risk of non-governmentality. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, you have made a lot of foreign travel - and you continue to do, like all of us, since we are participating in the European Union - and you know very well that very democratic and healthy countries have governments of cooperation. So the simple analogue only, which makes each of us in every political space, is to leave his own political micromass and to be forced to cooperate in the interests of the country. Today I have never heard in this Chamber the concept of national interest, the interests of the country, with which otherwise you have been trivializing our minds for so long. In essence, the people and the country - in our opinion - need political long-term, visionary, consensus, consensual, co-responsibility and convergence policies on specific programming principles. I conclude with something optimistic and dynamic, as optimistic and dynamic is the country's youth. Ali and trishal to those who condemn, they continue to condemn the silence of today's seventeen! Today's and today's 17ths are the youths of the place, they are the youths forming in Greek schools, they are the youths who learn the Law of the Citizen, the youths who are breast-feeding in democracy. In this generation we want to open the way, because, if we turn it to the margin, it will follow the dark and dashing paths of the lack of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we really want to sanctify ourselves, but you do not leave us in this Chamber! And indeed, it is a sad sight that we are witnessing. Imagine how serious you are all taking in this Chamber in view of the electoral law. Seems from the presence. Everyone goes to this step, throws away what he wants to fly and when he's done, gets up and goes to eat his soup and pull his sleep, sleep of the law. We have heard a lot today from many speakers, many rapporteurs. We have heard reports such as the one by Mr Vlachos in New Democracy, who spoke about cooperation in general in Central Left, has taken out numbers and made calculations. They didn't come out. Why do you come into this process, Mr Vlao, since you can make a strong colluding, very beautifully, of the New Democracy? Nothing separates you. Everything unites you. You're just all going on in this Chamber and making fun of the Greek people. Mr. Vlacho spoke of consistency. Let me remind him how consistent his former leader was when he said that he did not return even as a leader in the New Democracy, as did today's Vice-President of his party, who, when listening to'return to New Democracy', remember very well how he was smiling? There are a lot of videos - unfortunately about him - on the Internet. I have also heard the spokesman from SYRIZA, Mrs Skoufa, also speak of lies and hypocrisy. Don't forget, Mrs. Scouffa, that SYRIZA, with hypocrisy and lies, has become government. You happen to have several actresses in your party. The word 'actor', however, means 'alternative'. SYRIZA, with his policy so far, has not shown us. We also heard Mr Voridis of the New Democracy, who wondered whether by abolishing the bonus of seats that exist or reducing them, SYRIZA wants to tell them something. You wonder, gentlemen of the New Democracy, if they close your eye and have something to tell you. Maybe for co-government? We are in turn asking Mr Vorides of the New Democracy: do you, Mr Vorides, want to say something to us in your position too? Really, what is your fear and nightmare in this Chamber? Would it be that Golden Dawn will become an official opposition? This, gentlemen of the constitutional arch, is inevitable and put it right in your mind. It'll soon be done. And sooner will there be a national government in this country. The only way to prevent this is for you to do a coup of the type of Turkish neighbour. But here, there is one difference: our Minister for National Defence will be much shorter, and if we judge from the way one of your ministers holds a gun, most of you will fire yourself. We have also heard Mr Voridis of the New Democracy say that there can be no question of intensification. I'm sure he's kidding us. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, did not go along with the Communist Party of Greece? Didn't you collide with PASOK and LAOS? Didn't you collide with PASOK and DIMAR? Today we don't have a coup d'état? So you are probably not at all cutting off on the fact that there is going to be a conflict, because you are absolutely certain. You're hypocrites. All you care about in this Chamber is the authority, and the desire for more chairs. The whole process spins not about how much more democratic you can make electoral law with last-minute advances, as you usually do, with amendments, but adapting it, depending on what is of interest to each of you. So, with the policy you've been doing all these years, it wouldn't make us any impression if you had to stay or claim the power of some of you, that you'd loosely cooperate with both the rainbow and the DEB, and with Amin Danda, and with Mao Chetong and Stalin, even with Hitler. But the truth is one and only: Fear the rise of the popular nationalist movement and its response to popular, nationalist strata. If you want to vote against us, you are tabling an amendment not to reduce the age limits - because here you are losing the game - but you are introducing the right to vote for the over eighty. There you may have had a chance again if you did not reduce pensions and abolish the ESS. You protest in the name of democracy. You're complaining about unconstitutionality. Who? You in this Chamber. In nine and a half months, ladies and gentlemen, there are still three hundred and fifty unanswered questions from Members of the Golden Dawn. That's if it's a democracy for you, what can I say? When - I have said so several times since this Step - there will be a time for a national government, precisely with the same democracy we will deal with you. However, greater importance and substance would have a real change in the political system and that could be done by starting with two things. Firstly, the abolition of parliamentary immunity, which applies, but only to the Members of the Golden Dawn. Secondly, the abolition of the law on the liability of ministers. The Golden Dawn legislates solely in the interests of Greek citizens. We have never had or will never have any dependencies, contrary to all the constitutional arch, which is binding and degraded to the loan sharks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Koukoutsis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. In the last few days, if the Golden Dawn was back on the agenda, that is to say, the wider - within the introductory - 'democratic' bow, it has discovered that the Golden Dawn, in fact, exists in this Parliament, that it votes, that it participates, that the Golden Dawn is elected, that we exist. It's comforting! Of course, some, especially on the right, were rushed to draw conclusions for us. The Greek people have understood that. In this Chamber many people talk about us, they know what we want, before us, these graphics. Tonight we had the great Caesar of the deceased Central Right, Caesar, the "bukus" "solarium" "black-leaving" who told us what? That at the last minute we changed our minds because we saw that the worms did not come out. Another piece of work now! Until yesterday other than others! Our rival Elias Cassidy said that some political scoops should finally, if they have a trace of manhood, apologize. I'm talking about manhood, ethicity and teat. The Left - and I am addressing SYRIZA - will not raise a head again for many years, will not dare to raise a head in this country, because the work that Mr Tsipras is doing today has a role to play, to stop the Left from being in this country. And it's going to stop there. It's for granted. We know what their feelings are for us. Everyone says that we are working with the Left, that we are making agreements under the table. Airplanes! The Left or at least a part of the Left in his mind feeds on us other dreams, Paul Pot, the big steps forward of Mao before the cultural revolution and so forth. In fact, that's the reality. I said this was a part of the Left. The older ones, at least the people of our age, who have been 50 years old, know very well what we're talking about. What is finally the offer of this SYRIZA Government - ANEL to this place? In the economy, even themselves, they are now admitting that they have failed. Every day on television they tell us nothing but "we vote on it, but with a heavy heart. We can't stand it, but we have to vote on it." In other words, even if these measures hypothetically took us out of the crisis, they undo it themselves. If we fall deeper into tartars and despair, is there anyone who believes that the Greek people, the citizens of this country, will forget who arrived there? We're financially doomed. Okay, I admit that the economy this year is moving to moderate levels. It's better than last year, but much worse than next year. So what did they do? They suddenly remembered the electoral law, as if the citizens were naive and did not see what was happening. The government has no unspeakable ends. Simple and inappropriate analogy, which Mr. Kammenos also embraced! And the first thing all left-wing MPs have to say is what is it? That 'we as left-wings should morally support the simple analogue'. I beg your pardon, in countries such as Israel or the Netherlands where the simple analogue exists, is there left? I don't think so. So that's not happening at all. Obviously, these countries cannot be regarded as left-wing countries. The simple analogue of Mr Tsipras and the left also says that it leads to equality of vote. Why? We will have a constituency in this country and there will be equality? In what sense, again, should we not simply have analogues in municipal, prefecture or regional elections? Why shouldn't we have any cooperation there? Why shouldn't we have justice there? On what basis does a fair electoral system maintain the twelve Member States? No one said that. That's why the system is considered fair. So we say that Greek nationalists, the Golden Dawn, cannot play games behind the back of the Greek people. We are clear and we state clearly that we cannot collide with such abortions. How interested we are in the New Democracy bonus. Now you'll tell me, what bonus does PASOK want? That's a question too. He said it to another speaker here, that PASOK wants the bonus. What can PASOK do with the bonus? It is possible that the people who will join the New Democracy - the people of New Democracy and PASOK - who will join together need the bonus. Just stuff. Potami, on the other hand, has another attitude, completely democratic. With one reason, so that we don't talk too much and keep the world out of it, it's just you and me. I heard you this morning, Mr Balafa, in an interview with you, and you quite rightly said that you did not see the two-seven gathering. I believe you have a political criterion and a political intuition. Of course, I have to tell you that my own small and humble political intuition says that we, the world of the Golden Dawn, will really be the catalyst of everything. May this moment come quickly! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u225	Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has once again been found in this Chamber that the pulse is pounding in red. The political opportunism of SYRIZA strikes red - we have seen it from the positions of many members of the government majority - and it is perhaps the only red one left in the debate on this bill, since the'red lines' of SYRIZA have fallen or have changed color one after the other. Why does the government suddenly bring the issue of 'election law', ladies and gentlemen? For two reasons. Firstly, because the government aims to disorientate citizens, to disorientate voters from the effects of the new taxes, which it itself imposed in the previous period, from the tough measures it took, but also from what it is preparing to take in the autumn. Yeah, what he's up to. That's the truth. Secondly, because the rulings know that whenever the election takes place, they will lose them. Indirectly, some of the government's majority have confessed. The aim now of Mr Tsipras is not to defeat the next elections, but to prevent the New Democracy from forming a government and political rescue itself. It is indifferent to him if the electoral law that brings the country will lead to a prolonged and dissolutionary period of impoverishment. Here Mr Tsipras literally dismantled the country with his so-called negotiation, dismantled the banking system, brought in a new and more painful memorandum and signed a broadly, with the government majority, and everything they put before him is signing it. Will the cost of insolence be calculated? I guess not, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard many colleagues in this Chamber from the government majority arguing in favour of the new electoral law, bringing it to the vote and considering that it is the new one that comes to relieve us of the sufferings of the past. Wrong, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. You are no longer just every word of the new tax and collective measures you impose. You are the oldest in terms of mentality and political practice and behaviour. It seems that the Minoan Koutsogiorg lives again through the electoral law you bring. The country relives moments of 1989, when the Minis Koutsogiorgas had brought a law that was just proportional to the famous "sum 1" - all remember it - to prevent the New Democracy from forming a government. It was then, from what you remember, that New Democracy would get 47% after three elections in order to have a hundred fifty seats and be able to form a government with a marginal majority. Many of the political children and then the companions of the Mini Koutsogiorgas have moved to the government majority. But Greece is small, we all know the course of each other. So it is reasonable to have his spirit and practices throughout this process of electoral law. I have also heard, Mr Minister, the Minister of the Interior behave the old political system and argue in favour of electoral law. Except Mr. Kourublis until 2011 where was he? I entered the House in 2012. However, Mr Kourublis has been a PASOK MEP since 1996 and a executive earlier, a warm supporter of Mr. Simitis. You know what? Does anyone consider that Mr. Kourublis has done himself a total delete in the past by moving to SYRIZA in 2012? Where is he and his other colleagues presumed to represent the new and indestructible, at a time when, as much credibility as you have available, it is lost, Minister, in your statement that, if the simple analogue is voted on, the place will not be governed? This statement was made on 16 May, that is, a while ago. Let me put it in the Minutes. It is an extract from 'THE VIMA', ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The lies must be completed and ending once and for all. The hypocrisy and political opportunism characterise the life and state of this government. That's what it looks like today. They are redeemed with other elements over time. The vote at the seventeen is correlated with a number of arguments to strengthen democratic reflexes, as many of the members of the government have said. So why, since it is about democratic legitimacy and democratic reflexes, should there not be a vote at sixteen and fifteen? They must also have the right to vote. You are playing with the institutions literally, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL. Fishing in blurred waters. And you know, I'm afraid you're capable of everything. The vote is linked to the limits of adulthood set by the Civil and Criminal Code and to education, which is why the limit for the right to vote is eighteen. We all know, particularly in education, how important it is to vote there. You are telling us that Austria adopted the vote at seventeen. Why did the other countries of Europe not see the example? Just her. Because all the countries of Europe have taken the stand, which we support. You're not just hypocrites, you're extreme opportunistic. Refugee the vote to the Greeks abroad and to the expatriates. You are ready, however, at any time to give with great ease and relaxing citizenship, right to vote to anyone. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Minister, tabled an amendment and wants to allow Greeks to vote abroad, but at the same time it also speaks of partitioning in large constituencies such as Athens II. We call on the Members to support her. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will not only vote against the electoral law. The New Democracy will go ahead with its immediate abolition and change as soon as its citizens have given it the mandate of governance, with dialogue with all political forces, with no intentions, no divisions and no caricature of dialogue, such as the one that took place last time by the government. The country needs strong governments, proportional representation of political forces in Parliament. The arguments put forward by colleagues from New Democracy are convincing to distribute this view. The country cannot enter an adventure of insolence. We have examples from abroad, from the international scene. You know we've been through a lot before. There is no need for the country to relive any more adventures. The country needs simple logic and not just proportionally, Mr. Tsipras, who is in no way inappropriate, but is, unfortunately, serving fraudulent purposes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u227	The last speaker for tonight's sitting, Ms. Big Housekeeper, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I'm the last speaker. I have heard all the previous speakers. I've heard a lot of opinions. Our party supports the simple analogue from the first day our party was founded, Mr. Vassilis Leventis, so it is not possible to support it now that it has been given the opportunity. At least we were given this important opportunity. On the other hand, let us not forget that the Central Association supported and supported the simple analogue, because the people's sovereignty is fully expressed when the government has 50% of the seats in Parliament, representing 50% of the Greek people. This bonus, 50% of seats, distorts the Greek people's vote and does not help to strengthen democratic conscience at all. The Centro Association is not a government amplifier. Besides, whatever bills were passed none of the government's bills voted for by the Central Association, and indeed, the Central Union Members are critical and rather harsh opposition we are doing to the government. I guess SYRIZA came near the views of the President and the positions of our party, and not we went to SYRIZA. There's been talk of practicability. As Mr Karras said in committee, it is an electoral law and not a law of forming a government, so the false dilemmas of the small parties in particular, I cannot understand them. Small parties, like Potami and PASOK now, show some fake dilemmas, but I don't understand what they want to prove. I would like to ask them: do they want to reflect the will of the Greek people or do they not want to? As regards youth now and the seventeen-year-old vote, I think that in the years of the crisis, which young people of the seventeen years have spent, they are much more mature than us. Besides, they proved this a few days ago in the Teenagers’ House. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the House of Adolescents was much more mature than us adult MPs. They have shown that they had more maturity and their views, even the topical questions that they asked to the main ministers, have often brought them into a much more difficult position to answer. They were much more mature than we were. We have to give the teenagers room to be placed. They have much more mature thoughts. They're much stronger than us. We have to listen to them. The Centro Association trusts them. They're very close to them. In fact, our President, Mr. Leventis, convinced the young and loved him and loved us. He's very popular with young people, especially at this time. I want to ask something. Why not trust young people and trust older people? So, when the older people vote and are over eighty or ninety years old, are we considering whether they are demented? Or when they come with the ballot in the pocket, does anyone go and consider whether the ballot has put it on them or if he suffers from dementia? Or when he's over eighty years old, why do the Ministry of Transport forbid them to drive and take the diploma? Do you think that if a young man of seventeen years competes with an eighty-sixteen-year-old who will have more developed IQ, the eighty-sixteen-year-old, or the seventeen-year-old or sixteen-year-old? I do not admit that the young man of seventeen years cannot afford to have the chance to vote. I shall now refer to the Greeks abroad or the Greeks. They want to vote in national elections. I think technically at least that's possible. We do not live in the 1980s to have the means to be able to vote. It's their inalienable right. In fact, our fellow citizens, who recently left home, think that they have a full picture of what is happening, know what is happening in Greece, know what problems and have an opinion and may want to take active action and have a right to vote. As far as the relatives are concerned, our relations must be tightened up. The Greeks of abroad are more patriots than we are, they have every right to vote, to participate in what is happening at home. Let's not forget that most Greeks abroad have property in their homeland. When they get them to pay HIS and taxes, then we remember them and consider them to be Greek? They can't vote! Then do we remember them being Greek? I want to say one more thing. We haven't talked about abstention at all. Abstention is the biggest indicator, showing how much depreciation the Greeks have for the system we have. Because when we have 50% abstention and do not care to take part in who they will choose, who will govern them, this is the biggest thing we need to be concerned about. When the other does not go to take care of who will represent him in Parliament and think that they are worthless those who are going to represent him, this is the greatest pitiful phenomenon for the Greek Parliament. That should be our concern. This shows that only with unity will we be able to cope with the crisis. When PASOK and New Democracy took the loans and brought the boats and planes from abroad to vote or take the ship to the half-city - and took the loans - they weren't concerned? Why did they take the loans back then and owe the millions, and the PASOK and the New Democracy, and now the banks have taken the recapitalisations and the Greek citizen pays them? You don't remember them then. You weren't back then. I remember when the planes were coming from Germany and from America to vote. And in Crete they went to vote for PASOK. You don't remember them! Well, I remember them. I wasn't a politician at the time, but I remember them very well. Now PASOK won't vote. Then Papandreou why did he want the simple analogue? Now Mrs. Gennamas forgot. I'm sorry because her father was a maximum politician and she had to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-19-S1-commons.u230	With the agreement of the House at 0.31 p.m. the meeting for Wednesday, July 20, 2016 at 13.00, on the subject of this House's work, is to continue the debate on the principle, the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction "Reasonable representation of political parties, the extension of the right to elect other provisions on the election of MPs".
