ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First, we will discuss the fourth with number 746/4-2016, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need to re-establish the single price of the book. The Minister will answer Mr Baltas. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the single price of the book, which began at the forefront of this issue in France, has two objectives, as we all know very well: on the one hand, to rationalise the book market and, on the other, to protect the book as a cultural asset. Indeed, what has happened since 2014 - I mean the last law on the abolition, in essence, of the single price of the book - is that there have been serious arrhythmias in the functioning of the book market, on the one hand, and on the other hand it seemed that this policy is also detrimental to the difficult book, the quality book, the book sold today in small bookshops. What I think we should see and come - if you want - and with the request that, if I am not mistaken, and you have supported, the resetting of the single price of the book, is the issue from two sides. One side is: The 2014 Act, if I said earlier that it has negative effects on the book market, also has negative effects on the quality book, the book which is not sold easily, the scientific, the political book, the political essay. Finally, if we consider the book to be a cultural asset, it should be protected as such on the one hand, in the large trusts, in the large oligopoly, as other countries have done, for example France, which even on the Internet market has set very strict terms and rules. I think it is just as necessary to protect pluralism. Because what is limited to a very large extent and is destroyed is not just the small bookstore, either in the capital or in other cities, but ultimately pluralism, which must exist in this area, the possibility of expression and freedom of speech. I think that there is now an agreement on this, both from the scientific and publishing world, but I think it is a mature demand, which can prompt the government to re-establish the single value of the book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Papatheodorou, as you said, we obviously agree with the single book price. And, as you know, the responsibility for this matter is not at the Ministry of Culture, which does not set prices. He's at the Ministry of Economy. I could easily say here that this is not a matter for me - ask the Minister responsible - but I would like to answer a few points. The first thing I want to point out is in relation to the situation before the SYRIZA Government takes over. As you mentioned, the law that effectively abolishes the single book price was passed before we come to the government. It has been voted through the whole process at the time of the memorandum, and I do not know how you personally were involved in it, but they are arguments which should, above all, be addressed to another government at another time. However, I'm over that, so we can get a little bit of it. Look, at the moment there is a second problem, which is also not our responsibility. The body dealing with books on all matter - both their prices and their circulation and their contents and the dissemination of the book in general - was the CEDEFI. The EMCDDA has been semi-repealed. In other words, he joined the Hellenic Foundation for Culture as a degraded part of it. As I recently went there, there are records of the EMCDDA, which there is no way to be saved, except with additional resources and additional people, warehouses that keep things, possibly valuable, that want work to get away from there and so on. That's not why we're responsible. I would also like to leave that and go a little further on the substance of the future. As regards the second, we recommend, within the days, a committee to the Ministry, to suggest all the dimensions of the political book, which must have a government, such as ours, not only in terms of prices, but also in terms of the functioning of the book market, what role the exhibitions play, what role the games play, what role the exceptionally sometimes anti-commercial - in some sense - play a very low-private role, 'take a book with which I do not know what and so on.' As far as the single price is concerned, we tried before the question enough to contact Mr Stathakis about what we can do here. Here, as you know, there is a process, after we have passed the assessment, to reassess the course of measures taken before on their economic and other efficiency, a resurgence, say, of previous policies. I was assured by Mr Stathaki's Ministry that we are - and we obviously accelerating - first of all to see what can be done with the single book price, so that things can come back where they should be, before the 1914 law is passed. For two-three things more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Indeed, I think that politics is the art of managing the problems of the situation and not just of going back to what might have been wrong in the past. That's why I'm saying it. I heard your answer. I heard that the previous government should have not gone through with this measure, and we are now in a position to find out exactly the negative consequences of a specific policy, which had to do with books, which could be first-line and sold on the first day with 30% and 40% discount. On the other hand, I hear, of course, the argument of many people, who say 'but here we have collapsed, it is better to buy a book that will be 20% cheaper on the shelf than to buy it more expensive'. This does not, however, cease to be injurious, both to spiritual production and, if you like, to cultural development of the place. I say this, in other words, that every time policy has to deal with the problems of the future and provide for the future, because I see, Minister, that in the last seven months you have been at the Ministry - and this issue has been discussed - there has not been a policy so far in relation to the single price of the book, which is indeed the responsibility of Mr Stathakis, but neither has there been a policy for the book as a cultural asset. Because, in fact, the issue of CSR did not arise now. If you want, and I personally have always opposed the abolition of the CSCE, with its division. On the other hand, however, it is true that today we really need to see how it has evolved throughout this period, because the book market has been dismantled and what should be - on the part of the Ministry of Culture always - the policy to be developed to support the cultural good on the one hand, and, on the other, to support reading, to support, if you want, the critical attitude that the new generation must have to have in particular with regard to the problems that surround us. What I would say in relation to your reply, Mr Minister, is this: in fact, after so long a time, it is, if you would like, a positive sign that you are going to set up a working group on book policy and policy of gratitude. But that does not solve the problem. I think that the Ministry of Culture, on many issues - that is what has been seen since the artists' placement in recent years - has had very delayed reactions and a slow pace. Beyond the single value of the book, which, if you want, is the essence, I am focusing on my question, I think that the major problem at the moment and on the issue of the Ministry of Culture is to discuss what the book policy will be in the years to come, what will be, if you want, the reorganisation of cultural policy in Greece, because in fact, on the one hand, the responsibilities exist, but are not exercised on this issue, namely cultural policy for the book, as well as on other issues, where the delays are too great. But that is the subject of another question, which I will put to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have easily passed the past. It is extremely easy from where you are right now to say "delay in alpha and beta" when - let me exaggerate - you left chaos behind. The Minister doesn't do a book policy personally. Book policy, as well as the theatre policy, cinema, etc., do supervised bodies. To supervised bodies there are a thousand million problems. One of them was also facing a million problems, was the Hellenic Foundation for Culture, within which illogically and in spite of every sense the ERCBI was integrated. The EMCDDA had its own problems, again due to all forms of mismanagement. Until the new Hellenic Foundation for Culture begins to function, with a thought of what "subjection for the book", to get the good of the EMCDDA and to see it, the problem is not dealt with by ministerial decree or by easy phrases of the press "we will do excellent politics". In my prototype, I tried to be cool, forget the past. I think, however, that, in your dentistry, you have shown that, in your statements at least, you do not want to see things shared, you want to make a policy that does not make sense in this form of placement. From that point on, you'll see the results, you'll see the quick one in relation to the results, and I hope to see you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. MEP Mr Konstantinos Vlasis seeks permission from absence abroad, in the United States, from 5 May to 18 May 2016, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u10	The House approved the requested permission. Before we move on to the next timely question, I will tell you what questions will not be answered. The third, with number 777/11-4-2016, is a top-stage question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Central Association, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the risk of losing funding from the European Union's financial institutions for the aid of refugees, is not being discussed due to the lack of competence of the Minister. The fourth under number 740/44-2016 topical question from the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the uncontrolled action of NGOs in the country, is not discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. The fourth under number 784-12-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Health, on the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. The ninth under number 745/4-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on non-performing loans, since Mr. Stathakis is in Washington, D.C., is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u12	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, every time a minister with responsibility for important matters is away, it is logical to postpone the debates on the topical and urgent questions. But it is completely absurd, Mr President, that there should be no collective responsibility for the functioning of a ministry and a government, so that one of the State Secretarys, of course, has to accept from the Constitution and the law, the responsibilities of his political leader, to come to the House, as Mr Alexiadis is here every day, and to lay down their responsibilities, to answer them. I ask Mr Stathakis - and it is the third postponement - for red loans that have become red. And there's no one from his department here to give answers. And as you know, Mr President, we benefit the Members here at the National Representation, based on our current questions, from making more general references to the Ministry of the respondent. I wanted to ask him today about the ESDP, about transitions. I would ask the State Secretary if he was the State Secretary responsible for the ESDP. If he were in charge of the industry, I would ask that. Also, only here is the right space for more general references. Every time Mr. Stathakis goes abroad, he raises the tape of the country's obligations. Every time Mr. Chakalotos leaves, he returns with a billion in his back. Every month he passes, the bill's up. Who are we going to talk to, Mr President? On the canals with the MPs, who don't have any idea? I beg you very much, because the Bureau has taken a responsible position - and the President of Parliament and all of you Vice-Presidents - and you blame the Government for these absences, beyond these reproach and requests, to do something else, Mr President, to ask them to come by the State Secretarys. We have rarely left Members without the satisfaction of parliamentary control. Is the Undersecretary a little bit? He can't know two or three things? Does Mr. Stathakis not trust his Undersecretaries? It's a misery, because it creates contempt for the National Representation. Whatever it is, with three Undersecretaries, it has no excuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Loverdos, without wanting to support Mr. Stathakis, I have to tell the truth. This is done in other ministries. It is not exclusively a phenomenon presented by the Ministry of Economy. That's the truth. I would also like to say that I and the other Members of the Conference of Presidents have raised this issue in general, namely the Members' replies, and everything has been done except to set a day for each ministry so that the Minister can regulate his obligations and know that he will respond on this day. This has not been done yet. It is something that is being discussed and I believe that it will soon be implemented so that there is no harm in the House of Members to the Bureau or anything. And, of course, I have to say that Mr Alexiades, on this issue, is a model of Minister, because he is indeed here on every question. That's what I can say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I have a request to make. There are politicians and politicians. There's a politician who every day goes out to the media and swears the worst way. Against him now, a press report by Members of the Democratic Alliance is being filed. It's about the guy who gets up and swears every once in a while and makes the pudding in the media. However, Mr President, I said something I would like you to notice. Indeed, Mr Alexiadis stands out for his morality, for his parliamentary presence and for his fighting. We do not agree with what he says, but he is here fighting and does not have the full responsibility of the Ministry, he is a Deputy Minister. I said, and I want you to notice. He was also the Vice-President on behalf of the Communist Party last week, when he heard this request for competence that does not exist as a State Secretary. Let's tell Mr. Muzala the government has him on its own. That's how the Prime Minister judged. I'm not going into this. It's either in Greece or it's not. There, however, where the Ministry has State Secretarys and, in particular, three State Secretarys, such as the Ministry of Development, it is impossible to despise this House and not to be anyone here. So please tell Mr Voutsi to proceed with this, in cooperation with the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u16	He will refer to the Conference of Presidents, Mr Loverdos, since it is your request. The sixth question, under number 741/4-2016, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the financing of the "SRF 2007-2013 projects", not the question why Mr Stathakis, as we said, is in Washington. The eighth Question No 663/15-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance concerning the participation of Greek businessman in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to the company "PHGASOS SA" is not discussed due to the absence and burden of work of Mr Tsakalotos. For the same reason, the third question under number 775/11-4-2016 is not discussed in the context of a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning ‘public money looting due to the arbitration of public projects co-financed by Community funds’. The sixth Question No 708/28-3-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, on the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not being discussed due to a mentioned obstacle by Mr Polakis. It's because of the workload. The first under number 774/11-4-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the Organization of Port of Thessaloniki (O.L.I.TH).), it is not discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Dritsa. It's because of the emergency obligations. The fifth under number 749/5-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the establishment of an Academy of the Port Authority, does not discuss this for the same reason. The first, with number 779/12-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP for the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the Regional Road of Thessaloniki, is not discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kourublis. The second question under number 782-12-4/2016 is the first question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the creation of a dam in Kyparissi of Heraklion Prefecture in the "Kaki Skala", which is not discussed for the same reason. Mr. Synatiakis, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President. I have asked, Mr President, for the floor, not for this timely question, but for another. I had two. One is, in fact, the Bad Laser Dam in Kyparissi, but because I am given the opportunity, I would like to say that it has been postponed on my own responsibility because more documentation is needed to make the debate more effective. I will, of course, come back in due course. Of course, I note that Mr Kourublis is absent for everyone else. So it turns out he was probably stirring up his absence, but it looks like I've been able to tell him about the deferral from my side. But Mr President, I would also like to talk about another topical question. Do you want me to refer to it when it comes to reading time or now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u18	You can also speak of this timely question, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u19	It was therefore a timely question for the biomass plants in the Municipality of Gortina of Heraklion to be asked to Mr. Kourublis. Mr President, these repeated repeated postponements and, indeed, continuing. This behaviour is unacceptable and undemocratic. It is not only the case with me or the Members of the JRC, but the majority of the Members. So far, you have announced that 1/3 of the current questions to be debated are being postponed by the Ministers. This behavior is unacceptable. Is it a question of the inability of the government's ministers? Oh, no. I don't want to believe that thing. It's an option, Mr. President. Look, I was informed about this timely question today at noon at 14:00 p.m. I came from Crete and was informed today at 14:00 the time. They could have been working one day earlier to inform the Member in order to do his thing. But that's not all. It's the third time of deferral. The topical and urgent debate has been postponed twice. It's not just the topical questions to Mr. Skourletis. There are also timely questions against Mr Kurubli. Mr. Kourublis has deferred me eight times a timely question, which was not discussed and related to problems of the recycling plant in Heraklion. Eventually, of course, people fought and were vindicated with their own struggle. They didn't expect the Ministry or Mr. Kurubli now. I do not call it disgraceful, but it turned out that he underestimated the workers themselves. In today's case, for this timely question it had been preceded - take note - just a simple question on 2 March and to Mr Kurublis and to Mr Skourletis. Mr. Kurublis, okay, he said he wasn't his responsibility. Mr. Skourletis has renounced answering the simple question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u20	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, because of the time to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say that this issue of the topical question is the biomass plants that grow like mushrooms across Greece. It is not only a political issue, but it is also scandalous, because through legislative and institutional frameworks entrepreneurs are trying to change the uses of land and burden the people's environment and health. It is therefore urgent to discuss this issue. So why is Mr. Skourletis away for the third time from this meeting? In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a generalized phenomenon which shows that the government neither wants nor can deal with popular problems. That's how we take it. I repeat that it is not a question of impotence from the Government and the Ministers. It is so great that its commitment and commitment to the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which has subordinated the solution of the problems - which is why it does not discuss them - is not talking about the fulfilment of the credit obligations. That's the reality. We therefore call on you to take action against the situation that has been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. To conclude reading the current questions that will not be discussed, I would like to inform you that the second question, with number 785/12-4-2016, of the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Sakis Vardalis, on the re-entry of extracted land by PPC S.A., as well as the first question, number 771/11-4-2016, of the second question of Parliamentarian Florins of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the "energy future" of the Florina Prefecture, is not being discussed by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr.Skourlitis, because of his unsuccessful obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western gallery of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fifty-five students and apprentices and seven educational sessions from the 1st, 3rd and 4th Lassithi Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the second with number 772/11-4-2016 a top-level question of the first-round question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Finance, on the equation of excise duty on diesel fuel and unleaded petrol. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Alexiadis. Please, Mr Stylian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there is a strong rumour in the media, in the paper and in the electronic press, about increasing the excise duty on diesel fuel or even his equation with gasoline. In other words, to speak specifically with numbers, it is rumoured that the excise duty on diesel will rise from EUR 330 per kilometre which is currently at EUR 679 per kilogram. Minister, Greece is in the first quarter of the countries of the European Union with the highest excise duty on petrol. In addition, one of the highest rates of VAT is imposed at this already increased price. You are probably trying to take advantage of the juncture of the international fall in the price of oil for purely compulsive reasons. I would like to point out that in the last four years, thousands of Greeks have bought a diesel car, generally more expensive than their respective gasoline. It is clear that the increase in excise duty will affect the production of products and services, burdening the economy at an extra cost and, as you know, ultimately charging consumers. Finally, I would remind you that, in a timely question that we discussed here in Parliament, in relation to the traffic charges and the increase in excise duty, you said, "We are not planning to increase excise duty, nor are we going to use the tax increase to find any equivalent or something like that". In view of the above, do you ask, Minister: Do you intend to increase excise duty on diesel? What action will the government take to ease consumers from overtaxation on fuel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have answered your question on this subject, as you said, on 18 January, and I shall reply to today's question. I would like to make it clear from the outset that there are issues relating to negotiation and that it will be irresponsible for a Deputy Minister of Finance or for the Minister of Finance to come out either on television or in Parliament and start announcing measures which are at the negotiating stage. With this I do not imply (so as not to start such titles and headlines) that we will do the "a" or "b" energy. It is simply for matters relating to negotiation, as you can see, for reasons of responsibility, that we cannot before it is finalised - because we all understand that this whole process is at the end - to make announcements. It would be irresponsible, not for us as government, but it would be irresponsible for the country. So, as far as this issue and rumour are concerned, let us wait. Very soon I think the announcements will be made and we'll all know exactly what's going to happen. What I would like to remind you is that the government is negotiating the implementation of two laws passed by the Greek Parliament, by Law No.4334 and by a qualified majority. That is what we are talking about in terms of legislation and everything else is evading our role. However, with regard to your question and the reference to my speech on 18 January, let me observe something, with all due respect for your capacity and your parliamentary work. You refer to the Minutes of the question a part of my answer. I saw those minutes too. My full answer is: "We do not plan, in other words in 2016, to increase excise duty, because the 2016 traffic charges have been collected, nor do we intend to use the tax increase to find some equivalent or something." That was my answer to a question you asked about whether we will increase excise duty, relating to charges of traffic. You have taken this section of the Minutes - which I will table so that there is no misunderstanding - you have removed what you are not attracted and what you are saying is that we are not planning, i.e. by removing it in 2016 - this has been deducted - to increase excise duty. You removed the phrase “... because the traffic charges of 2016 have been collected” and you left the rest, which you mention. I therefore believe that imaging, as is the case in the question, is not exactly what I said. I make it clear that it's two different things. One is what will be agreed on in the negotiations on all issues, and the other is what we will do about the traffic charges in 2017. There is a committee in the Ministry of Finance from all the co-legislative ministries, which discusses all possible scenarios, so that we can find the very correct solutions very early. We have been trying since now - we started in March 2016 - to discuss what is going to happen in December 2016, precisely so that we do not create problems on the market and on the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Stylion, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would like to make it clear: by hiding some part of the Minutes, it would be very naive on my part to believe that this is not known or that you are not aware of it or that it is not known to me. But I would like to tell you that I did not mention it for reasons of economy in the question. I understand and understand from your answer that you do not connect excise duty with traffic charges. So that is something that we are clear about. It has nothing to do with it. In relation to the increase in excise duty, we do not know what will still result from the negotiation. We'll see the results of the negotiation. But I cannot say that evaluation and negotiation should have been completed by your Government in October, violence in November 2015. However, we have arrived in April 2016 and it is still not complete. Responsibility is all the government and you take it fully. I also want to tell you that you, but also the Greek citizens, have the highest prices in unleaded petrol, such as Norway, Denmark and Sweden, that is to say, countries whose citizens have far greater and much higher purchasing capacity than that which Greek citizens have. I would also like to convey to you that there is concern among the public about any upcoming increases in gas and gas, since a number of our fellow citizens have turned their car into working with LPG and natural gas, trying to take advantage of low prices, reducing costs and being able to cope with it. And we're not just talking about private cars, we're talking about business cars. I would also like to remind you that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in contrast to its election announcements, as you said in this particular question, has not proceeded with the fight against smuggling and fuel trafficking. Once again, according to my assessment, you are looking at overtaxation. In addition, I would like to point out to you that there is a lack of revenue in relation to the target of around 1 billion in March and that the due liabilities of individuals have increased by 2.4 billion in 2015 compared to the end of 2015 and by 16 billion in relation to the end of 2014. In addition, the government’s dues to private individuals have increased by 700 million since the end of 2015 and by 2.3 billion since 2014. I do not think that problems can be solved and solutions can be found with ideologies and overtaxation. So I ask you, Minister: are there any rewarding studies on the basis of which measures will be taken or will they be measures agreed on by the evaluation? Will the government protect Greek businesses and consumers? And if so, how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to negotiating, I believe that the relevant ministers will come and inform you in detail. Then there will also be Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Stathakis, for whom I often hear various reproach and criticisms. And I want to make it clear: they are two politicians, who are raising a huge political weight in the sense of political responsibility, but also in the sense of working hours, because you see their schedule and see if these people can not come to Parliament and answer, which is an obligation and do when they can, but if they can respond to all this enormous pressure of negotiation, because they are not only negotiating on the issues of their Ministry, they are negotiating a whole range of issues that concern a number of ministries and all the issues of the Greek economy. So those who make easy criticism of the fact that they do not come to the House are not consistent with their obligations are ignoring the important political role they have and the political responsibility. And right now, as Greeks, we must stand by them and not undermine them with any criticism. As regards what you said about excise duty and overtaxation, I fully agree with you, but should we go back to a historical regression? Has this government brought any increase - I do not remember - in excise duty? This position you say in the country, the first place in Europe, has been made by laws brought by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK and a number of other taxes. We have the position that we have today - and we must apologise for this - by laws that we have inherited - and we poorly administered them as we should - from previous governments. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, as far as the issue of fuel smuggling is concerned, please do not rush, I have said so before. In the Committee on Economic Affairs there will be a detailed debate - once the time has come, I imagine in May - on the full account of the Ministry of Finance for 2014-2015. And it would be very useful there, after we file the 2015 figures, for the other ministers to come and say what they have to say. In connection with the smuggling of fuels, however, you are not right. You are not right, because of the evidence that will be discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday, where we will discuss the 2015 figures report, you will see what we did in fuel smuggling and controls and seizures and, above all, what we did in implementing major decisions that had been voted on in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, but had remained in the Ministry's closets, no decisions had been made to implement. So you're not right about that. You will see the evidence precisely, because beyond any political controversy we need to see the evidence. Also, with regard to revenue, the evidence you have said is not correct. We will bring you to the Commission on Wednesday. The due date, if we compare them 2014, 2015, 2016, in 2015- a crisis period, a period of capital control, a time and a period when the public could not take enforcement measures - if we sum up the maturities for each month of 2015, you will see that it is much smaller than the 2014 due date increase, in the year of the success story. And for 2016, don't rush, because the provisional figures in March show that in March 2016 we have an unprecedented positive economic signal where the due date has only increased by 200 million. Will someone listen to us and say "Twelfth million is little?" Over the past few months or years, the public deficits have increased by 1,200,000 euros every month, had reached EUR 1,600 000, 000 euros, so we have a fall in the deadlines - we understand why this has been done - but what you have said is not confirmed. But with figures on Wednesday in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we will be discussing all of this calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. We continue with the third with no. 757/6-4-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefidou to the Minister of Finance, on the taxation of undeclared leases 2015 and the abstention of lawyers from their duties. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the continued abstention of lawyers, who have been starting for months as a reaction from the industry, which is critically affected by the painful measures in terms of insurance and taxation, which will soon sweep the whole country, is well known to everyone. They are also aware of the consequences of this abstention of lawyers. We've got a cancellation of about seventy thousand court cases. It is reasonable to think that immediately after the abstention of lawyers, a suffocation will be created because of the workload in both courts and legal offices. The provisions of Article 11 of Law No.4346/2015 - added paragraph 4 - stipulate that in order to exempt from taxation income from renting immovable property, it must as far as the deadline for submitting a declaration of income tax - which is not late - be issued at the expense of the lessee payment order or a payment order for the use of a salary or a judicial decision for the expulsion or for the payment of a rent or for the payment of a rent or for the payment of a rent or for the payment of a wage. I would therefore like you to explain to us exactly how the requirement of the law can be met so that the consequences of your Government's handling of the insurance and tax measures that you are preparing to throw into the humped back of professionals - who are rightly reacting - do not pay for the well-known mortgages. Here I am talking about all property owners, who have not collected a single euro from their real estate, but will be asked to pay 15% to 35% of undeclared tax rents. I assume the Ministry is not in any secret agreement, Minister, with the lawyers' branch, on the expiry date of their abstention! Therefore, your Government cannot punish lawyers' strikes on economically exhausted taxpayers by calling on them to pay unfair taxes on nonexistent incomes. If this is the government's secret intention, then we are not talking about a state, Minister, we are talking about something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u33	I have answered, Madam President, in the same question on 7 April, to your colleague, Mr Thebes, Members of the Coalition, on the very same subject. But I shall reply to your question, repeating the same issues. First of all, let me make it clear to you and make sure that under no circumstances will the Treasury be unfair either to exaggerate or cause any problem for the citizens. We are fully aware of the country's tax history. We're fully aware of how we drove here. We want to remove problems and we do not want to add any problems. And we certainly do not want to add injustice to the too many injustices that our tax system already has with timeless political responsibilities. However, they are not concerned with this debate at the moment. It's all this government's fault from what I understand and it's all these ministers' fault. There is no political past in this country, all of this has been dropped. On this point, I would like to say that it is clear that the government has given a fight and has managed the revenues from unrealistic rents not to be taxed. Let me remind you of what happened here a few months ago when we were accused of having the arrangements we are bringing, we will tax incomes that do not exist. This issue has been resolved. The order came, things got clear, the submission of tax declarations began, the 'Cassanders' of eight, some media, which said we would tax retrospectively and various such nice things and bring the order. But we did not expect the abstention of the lawyers. We did not expect it because we thought that it was through dialogue - because we want to resolve matters with society - we would resolve matters. The abstention of the lawyers continues. I also met the lawyers and the Chamber of Economics and I will do everything else that it takes, because this is the role of political leadership, to talk to them, and I will ask that this be resolved. If not solved, the three solutions we have are: The first solution we have is to allow lawyers - but organised - to obtain a special licence for these actions for citizens. One solution is that. The second solution is to prolong tax declarations when we have this case, namely imprudent rents, for as long as necessary, to cover the whole problem. That's something we're looking at. The third solution we have before us is to accept tax declarations now in cases where they have unrealistic rents, amending the relevant provision, and bringing us the relevant documents after the end of the abstention. We are considering these three cases. I am speaking to you with full honesty, we do not want to create any problems for the citizens. We'll find the best solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I am aware of the honourable Member's question - it was tabled in one day different from my own - and I know the answer you have given. I must tell you that that answer did not satisfy us. I do not think it was a serious answer, a responsible government, because it was in the sense of seeing and doing, we get an extension by June, and here we are, in dialogue - you said it and now - to see how we can resolve this issue. On the one hand, why can't you be aware of the abstention time of lawyers and, on the other, of why, even if the abstention expires tomorrow, within a month do you think everyone will be able to run in the legal offices to get payment orders or will lawyers be able to lodge applications or actions in the courts where the inseparable is to be created? I want to tell you that we definitely need a deal. I believe that the three proposals which you have made at the end are in the positive direction. Today, in order not to blame us for having a sterile opposition, I too have a proposal to put forward to you, assuming that this case certainly needs to be regulated in an exceptional manner, as far as this year's tax declarations are concerned. I would therefore say that the Ministry could consider the possibility of taxing taxable property owners from unrealised rents by submitting a simple responsible statement on late rents. And if this does not reach the government and wants another guarantee, it could also be done by submitting a copy of an extrajudicial challenge to wage earners for late rents. You know very well that any judicial way a lessor wants to follow, based on the law governing evictions or leases, is required at least fifteen days before he has mobilized his hirer with an extrajudicial charge. Otherwise, you're not talking in court. This outlet doesn't need a lawyer. It can be done by the lessor alone, so it's a simple process. So I think that in this elementary way, which has no bureaucracy and simplifies the process, the government can have a truly responsible approach to the issue, respecting the citizens and not subjecting them to the experiment of the well-known story of Hoxha with the donkey where, when he finally learned the donkey not to eat, he died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u37	In no case do we want to follow such examples, nor do we want to repeat such teaching stories. But what you'll know, Mrs. Congressman, is that the Treasury wants to solve problems. We didn't expect this whole thing to happen to the lawyers. We'll deal with it. It is very positive that your proposal, taking it into account and in general, is positive in this Chamber, apart from critical, to hear proposals. We will take advantage of it, we will evaluate it, and if we finally adopt your own proposal, you will know that we will proudly come out and say that it is a proposal made by a Member of the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. We move on to the fifth under number 781/124/2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the global outshore scandal and tax evasion. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, it is also known from the media, but not only, the case of the great Panama Papers scandal launched by this FONSECA company in Panama. In addition to this, however, we must recognise that the evidence from the analysis of data is that foreign companies which were founded or ordered by secret shareholders, the years of crisis, have exceeded ninety-fours based in the Virgin Islands, Seychelles, Panama, Bahamas, British Aguilla and Samoa. It is surprising how Greeks make their money in offshore in the midst of a crisis. We, too, as a government and as a competent Minister, and with our help, should do the corresponding and appropriate research so that we can find out what the natural or legal persons behind these transfers of money are, which are clearly for tax evasion and not for tax evasion. Here, let us say that in this particular case, unfortunately, we are seeing again - and in my dentext I shall come to this - the name of Mr Papastavrous and Mr Metaxas and Mr Lanaras and other people who participate in three companies and one institution. I won't be long enough to have time to talk in my denture. I ask you, Minister: does this scandal demonstrate the need to examine the vertical increase in offshore activity of Greeks at times of crisis? What are the next steps taken by the Ministry to identify those who created such companies to avoid taxation in Greece? How will you handle the fact that Mr. Papastavros is once again involved in such a major economic scandal? Are you going to invite the involved, as they arise, from the list of names and the notary to investigate any tax fraud? Finally, will you investigate the exact activities of these offshore companies? Will you check their bank accounts and other material and intangible assets? Do you intend to co-ordinate with Panama's judicial, tax and banking authorities so as to assist in the settlement of the offshore cases of Greeks, which exceed the number of two hundred thirty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. MEP, you raise a huge question with your question as to how Europe works, how the global economic system works, but what the hypocrisy of our tax system is when we impose a great deal of taxation on small and medium-sized enterprises or on large Greek companies and some other, either through the procedures of tax avoidance, intra-group transactions, triangular transactions, transactions with companies based in offshore countries, avoid a minimum tax obligation. But there, we need a European and global struggle on what is to be done and I will tell you after what we have done and at OECD level. As far as the specific questions are concerned, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on Since the first moment the issue has arisen, and in particular since 6 April, I have asked the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue in writing - I will present it in the minutes - 'to draw up an operational plan for the analysis of the data and information published recently in the press, Panama Papers, concerning persons associated with offshore companies based in Panama. For this project, I would ask you to work with the appropriate prosecutors, because we want coordination and not as in the past to delay the lack of coordination." We also propose that this audit should be started as a priority by political persons mentioned in the documents published and directly associated with orders for checks and orders, which have already been issued. Why did we do this? We have no logic of targeting journalists, politicians or anyone else. However, we have one logic, namely that we politicians should start the investigations. They're looking for me first and everything they have to look for, especially the relationships with the banks where I have a housing loan and I'm trying to pay it back. We politicians looking first, starting from us, just so that all of us don't hang this over us. As far as the issue is concerned, however, generally as regards what the Ministry of Finance is preparing for the next period, the provision for the creation of an electronic register will come in which, among other things, information on deposits abroad will be provided, to participate in companies, offshore, offshore and so on. Cross-checking will be achieved by the FATCA Programme, which will enter into force in the near future. Citizens will be given the opportunity to make voluntary notification of undeclared income through the voluntary disclosure programme. We reorganise the services of the Ministry of Finance with a view to speeding up the control procedures of tax fraud lists, Lagard, Borgians, and other cases. In addition to the two sections set up in the CIFF which deal exclusively with the examination of orders relating to specific lists, we also proceed to other actions. Furthermore, the new establishment plan of the IAEA, which will investigate, among other things, cases relating to the illegal origin and management of funds through offshore companies, aimed at money laundering from criminal activities, has been completed. Finally, a Legislative Committee incorporating Directive 849/2015, for which the financial system will be used to prevent money laundering, has been set up. As far as - and to close - your reference to names on these lists and in the publications you understand that from my position I cannot refer to any names or grounds for tax confidentiality, but also to why the frequent reference of some names to all these lists has now fled the concept of political criticism and reached the limits of graphics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u43	Mr Kammenos again has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u44	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. It was detailed and thorough, showing a structure of organization so that this ministry, which is responsible for the well-being of the country, the Ministry of Finance, can take the appropriate steps so that there can no longer be a fraudulent or felony tax evasion. Especially if you want, for political reasons, in the midst of a crisis, when we are all taxed, and we need to tax and get to the public koruna, in order for the country to go well, some people make their money out by synergy and combined with lawyers and notarial offices. I say this in particular, because if there are no not a notary offices and lawyers can do this. All of this, of course, is either an office or a notarial office or a legal office, but it is usually the big banks abroad who themselves have these organisations - they know it very well - because it is their way to hide and provide this you saw the bad services to the global economic system and the taxpayers of the world. In other words, they have an incentive to hide money and this is one of the roles of large banks abroad. It's specific and we need to separate onshore with offshore. In other words, when we call a non-resident company, its shares are transferred in writing and manuscripts are transferred to a paper, which is anonymous and the man who brought the paper is also the shareholder, called a bearer in English, i.e. the one that bears it. It is not a nominal stock, so at any time I can bring it, you, Mr. Musalas, and show or say that we are shareholders, whether it is in the interest or not, during a check. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] From there on, it is very important to have the help of the judges. I know from some information I have, that the appropriate prosecutors have been seized in Greece - both the financial prosecutors, Eleni Toulopakis, I have the information, and Mr Christos Tzouras, as well as the prosecutor of economic crime, Mr Panagiotis Athanasios - through judicial and judicial assistance with Panama and other countries so that these papers can be officially brought to our hands. Because if the lawyers of - within or outside the introductory part - do not come in official fashion, they will be able to invoke a mistrial in order for the public to lose the trial and not actually reach the point. We must be very careful in the process. You will also allow me to submit to the minutes everything we have found publicly in relation to Panama Papers, the official papers of various companies involved in Greek political life for anyone who wants to study them. And please very much, if there is no world in the Ministry of Finance, which we need as heads, hands and brains to work on, and other cases that will arise, because, as you can see, every one of these new issues arises, please as a government to do everything we can to find or move the world from other structures and from other ministries, so that we can bring about the work. Because if we do not have the people, we will not be able to carry out the work as well as we will be willing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr Alexiadis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, you are absolutely right about the work of the financial prosecutors. They are really doing a very important job together with the prosecutors of corruption, along with the regular prosecutors, have raised too many cases of tax evasion, we are in cooperation with them, with respect for the distinct roles. We want to help them more, but unfortunately we lack too much control staff. We very much lack the control staff if we compare Greece with the other countries, with the level of tax evasion and smuggling we have. We are looking to find the solutions to strengthen our services as much as possible so that we can meet the serious role we have. There is a very good job done by the prosecutors, and on this occasion I would like to ask everyone to stop interventions in justice, because interventions in justice are the references of politicians to prosecutors who have been accused of prosecution proceedings when the prosecution has finished and have been misled. We often hear politicians coming out without any respect for justice, without any respect for the institutional role of Parliament and the Member of Parliament, the politician and judging defendants for whom the prosecution investigation has been completed, and even some of them have rich friends, find millions and pay what they have to pay. Let the prosecutors do their job and not interfere in their whole business. They do a very good job and we should not judge the outcome of their work. As far as what you said is concerned, I will submit various documents, such as my document to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, the Ministry of Audit, the corresponding ILO document and the International Economic Relations Directorate's document, which, referring to Panama, describe us as making a written reference in July 2015 to the OECD World Transparency and Information Exchange Forum, where it was noted that Panama did not respond to our country's request for an exchange of tax information. Finally, in a recent OECD communication, it is stated that Panama also retreated into the initial commitment to the World Forum for the automatic exchange of financial information. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am aware of all these problems, and we believe that either the legislation recently passed by the Greek Parliament with the incorporation of the directive and the automatic exchange option or the FATCA agreement and a number of other conventions that the country has and will do in the next period will strengthen the country's control and institutional arsenal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. We move to the tenth under number 764/8-4-2016 a topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the PASOK-Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the control of the conditions for the movement of refugees and migrants from Chios to Lero. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Muzalas. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, Minister, as you can see, I have come, as you can see from the Chair Regulation, to ask you this question. Of course, I expected Mr Toskas to be here, and not you, because I had asked a previous question, when the MATs had gone to Kos and in order to impose that order, they had intervened against peaceful citizens, such as the islanders, who, for the first time, seemed to be going wrong in the whole story. Now, the repetition of the same phenomenon in Lero, I think, is a situation which is not easily tolerated, since the mayor's complaint states that citizens have been beaten by the porters and indeed a municipal councillor. The mayor also explains that, on the basis of government commitments, the centre set up in Lero will only operate for the registration, identification and a few days' stay of refugees and that this is now being converted into a detention centre of at least twenty-five days, while the law implementing the European Union-Turkey Agreement provides for the transfer of refugees to islands from other parts of the country. These are the mayor's official complaints to the media that were relayed by the large media and by the local and the question raised: Indeed, they are well treated by the Security Body to these unfortunate people, to the immigrants who were in our country, but not to behave in this way to Greek citizens. Is it possible to treat Greek citizens like this? That's the question. The second question is: What will be the policy of managing refugees and migrants in the country from which they enter, especially after the statement by the President of Turkey that if Europe is not consistent with what it has promised, it does not intend to implement the Agreement? This statement was publicly broadcast on television. So that makes us very uneasy, particularly in areas which have a high tourist index, because you realise that if tourism is inactivated on these islands, the economy will even be affected, and even very substantially. Therefore, one of your positions - the government, I mean - on this question I think it will be reassuring if it is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u49	Before giving the floor to the Minister to answer, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured at the premises of the Congregation of the Greek Parliament, forty-nine students and students, as well as a professor of the Department of Law at the University of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you that we are in the middle of a parliamentary control procedure. It's the timely question procedure. One specific procedure is followed: The honourable Member is developing his question for two minutes, the Minister is answering his prototype for three minutes. Then the MEP is given the floor again and is seconded for three minutes, and in the end the Minister closes with three more minutes. Now Mr. Kremastinos, F Vice-President of Parliament, asked Mr. Muzala. Mr Muszalas will answer for three minutes and the procedure I mentioned earlier will be followed. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cremastine - and to me 'Mr Professor' - I always feel a particular humility when I am in front of you, considering beyond your social struggles, your struggles in medicine. If anything sounds wrong, I'll ask you to forgive me in advance. I think in a very kind way you are defending an unjust case. You're right. We said the reception and identification centers would remain forty-eight to seventy-two hours. The agreement was reached with Turkey. We are in a transitional period where the situation has changed. They'll have to wait in the first phase at least 15 days. In the first phase it can reach all twenty-five, as in this particular phase and we believe that if it is implemented after the agreement, there will be a rotation, the populations will be empty and the islands will be decongested. At this stage it was considered necessary to transfer people from the hot spot in Chios, which had an overpopulation and while it was for a thousand people, it had a thousand eight hundred. We transported three hundred families and vulnerable - strictly selected - to the hot spot of Leros, which while having positions for a thousand people, had fewer than a hundred fifty. There were some moves. I do not want to describe them politically, but I would say that there has been a welcome, despite the fact that the mayor had been informed of Leros's people who were extremely aggressive about this transfer. I'm not prepared or it's my job to make sure the police have no offense or offense or anything else. I think these are research issues. But I want to assure you two things. I believe that you and your party are as vivid as we are as a great prospect of solving the problem in our country for the implementation of the agreement. We have to withstand this twenty-five days that we have endured and a further twenty-five days until this rotation occurs and be dismantled. This thing can be done again. We hope that, by showing a comprehension and durability to the attempt to implement the agreements, we will never again have to find ourselves in last summer's nightmare. I have nothing else to say to you. I'd rather things were different and you'd rather be different. At the ten points where your party has brought me to my office - Mrs. Genemas was kind enough to come - we have an absolute agreement at nine. So I want to think you're wrongly informed. We've done a lot with the mayor. Feeding goes to the population, recruitment is done by the population, we are making a great effort. Unfortunately, there are tensions. Now, if it was this port or the other, or if it was the result of the residents' concentration, or the other is a minor issue. I hope we don't meet again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for three minutes to give a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, the way you speak, I admit you are upgrading the House and the political morale. I think that this is the way the debates should be held. What I would like to say, however, is that I stand out for immigration policy, which is why I said that I would like Mr Toskas to be here, so that he could recommend to the Security bodies and to the Port Authority, who are not responsible himself, a better attitude to the people who are concerned about these events, because as you know, islanders are treating immigrants, as we saw yesterday in Lesvos. Well, if there are some who are worried, there is no need to deal with them with the MATs or the Port, in this way. And because this complaint was a complaint by Mayor Leros to the media, who even claimed to speak in a very tough language, saying that the Prime Minister himself assured him that it would not be possible to move from island to island, I am obliged to protest for these reasons, bringing the position of local society to Parliament. But I myself, too, believe that the Minister for Civil Protection - and this is what the word says - can really protect citizens from violence - if you want to - behaviours which are sometimes extremes of the Security Councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Professor and Vice-President of the House, Mr. Cremastino. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Kremastine, Professor, once again confirms that the sterling is honoring the first. There's nothing else I can tell you about the police. Obviously, the use of force is not necessary and should be avoided. I thought it was advisable to come here - and most of the respondents I will answer today - to call you that, for reasons beyond my will, I could not - because I care to understand the substance. And the essence is that changing our regime obliges us to violate some of our commitments. Let this be done in the best and in the most harmonious way for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate by Mr Cremastinos has been closed. We move to the third under No 742/444/2016 topical question by MP II Athens, Neo Democrat Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on uncontrolled action by NGOs with a suspected role and funding in the reception areas of refugees and illegal immigrants. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I am pleased that the Minister comes to answer this question, which I understand from the moment that has been tabled for me has become a much bigger subject. The Prime Minister himself raised the uncontrolled action of the NGOs in Idomeni and we also have the official complaint made by the Prime Minister. You have left the Aegean islands and the camps in the mercy of people whose elements you neither control nor act you know nor have the identity you know nor the certainty that they are there by humanitarian interest or by any other interest. The Prime Minister came out and said that solidarity creates a problem, raises migrants. It has happened twice in Idomenis in a way that has also offended our national sovereignty. That was the result. Our national sovereignty was insulted, Mr President, when the Skopje entered our country. Our national sovereignty was offended when those who left through the stream came back at night. Don't be foolish! And what do we find out? That the things I wrote to you in the question, unfortunately, were done extensively. What do we find out? That SYRIZA officials, MPs are on the side of people arrested because they facilitated the illegal entry of foreigners into the country. We have a specific incident on January 14th. There goes the well-known Mr. Lambrou, a SYRIZA official, Katrivanu and the Lesvos MP, Mr. Pallis, and they are protesting because people were arrested to whom an accusation was filed to facilitate the illegal entry of foreigners. The port was forced to make a whole operation to arrest them, because they did not react to his signals. One was forbidden from exit from the country, and today one of these solidaritys is here. Instead of congratulating the people of the port, who have done a hundred thousand rescues at sea and are protecting the borders, as long as their political leadership allows them, Mr President, apologies to those who have been afflicted, to the solidarity that has brought illegal immigrants to the country. Minister, if you do not put rules and if you do not impose the image of a sovereign country, unfortunately, beyond your personal good intentions, which I do not deny and which I have not denied anywhere, you will neither be able to stop the shame of Idolatus and Piraeus, nor further manage the problem. This morning, again, people of solidarity created problems in Piraeus, whether they will enter or not enter the transfer buses to Scaramaga, migrants and refugees. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Mercy! How long will we leave them? You are not a companion, but SYRIZA has been a companion with too many of them since the time of Genoa, since the occupations, since Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Varvichiotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u58	Politics, therefore, we expect the government to condemn and take concrete initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Varvitsiotis, I will get away from the opposition, which I do not think is right, but it is your right and possibly your role. I will try to stand up to the essence of the remarks. And because there's another question about the same thing, I might steal some time now and not answer it. What I am going to say here is to take account of the other question, that is to say, that I will be more brief there. I told you in Parliament - and I had raised the issue of non-governmental organisations - that, first of all, we are wrong to say non-governmental organisations, because in fact non-governmental organisations have a specific role to play in this kind of crisis worldwide, within this economic system in which we live. I have repeatedly mentioned the phenomena of the Calais of France and Katarina in America, where we are talking about very organised states. I do not think anyone believes that there is a state more developed administratively than America. The non-governmental organizations have worked in 'Katarina' and in Calais for many years. Forgive me. I'm a little upset and I'm going to stop. I have said that, Mr Varvitsiotis and honourable Members, in our country, in the periods of the major crisis, which you claim that the government has not been able to react immediately, and I claim that in these crises nowhere in the world no government can react immediately, the lack of organised intervention has created gaps, where they have intruded with non-governmental organisations, non-governmental organisations, innocent people, but people who want to live their novel, in the end have also damaged non-governmental organisations which have been co-financed or served other purposes. At the moment, I want the Greek Parliament and the Greeks to feel security because we now have time behind us and have history. What is now being observed in Idomen, Mr Varvitsiotis, was in September, when I took office in Mytilini: two thousand people every night on the beaches, five hundred, six hundred, analogous and if we knew who it is, where it is, beyond the ten acquaintances. We couldn't force order. It couldn't. It didn't happen in France. It didn't happen in America. We're getting to December. We're organized. Genaris, we're starting control. As I promised you in the House - and I owe it to Mr Kaklamani - I can read it out to you: we are creating a complete system in the Ministry of Migration Policy in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Things get into order. We set up a committee in Mytilini for the first time, then in Chios, in Samos, in Lero. NGOs shall be recorded. It is disguised - it is a pointless word - the carved material, which either does not help or help from the wicked. We have full control. You're wronging us as a country, not as a government. We're not at God's mercy. Only in Idomeni is this happening and it will cease, will it cease when the chaos is organized there, as was the case in Mytilini. I don't want to blame you or anything, I want to assure you that it's very close and you see it in Eidomeni. Something's changing in Idomeni. I would like to tell you that through the French Embassy we had very long discussions about how Calais was faced in France. They've made plans. That's what's happened. There's something you see that starts in Idomen and it's going to work. It takes time to mature despair to these people positive to us and it takes time to shape chaos. I would like to assure you that if I remove the opposition and stand by the fact that a Member of Parliament from any line says that: 'Government gentlemen, what is happening? We have to get a class into these things," I will agree with you, and the class must enter and enter. In the vast majority of areas we have right now, and they are spaces of about thirty-five thousand people, they are in order. He's not in class in Idomeni, starting and entering class, and in Piraeus, which soon ends the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Mr Varvichiotis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I will not comment on whether or not SYRIZA's policy is successful. I was in charge of the Minister, and once we left the government, the increase in sea flows exceeded 2000%. There was a war in 2014, there was a war in 2015, there was a war in 2016. Flows seem, and after the Greek-Turkish agreement, the agreement with Turkey, are also a matter of political will, which was not there. But I come to the NGOs, Minister. There are international rules for NGOs. Only here are we not applying them. There is a European Treaty of 1996, which says what the Commission recognises, the ones established in three Member States of Europe, which have been offices which have declared their administration and their members. And will we manage EUR 300,000, 000, exceptional support from the European Union to NGOs without rules? And while you've seen it governmental, still legislate? You have announced this legislation beforehand. So many invasive amendments you bring for any irrelevant matter. The whole dialogue on education has been thrown away with your amendments and you cannot bring an article saying who will be financed and who will be recognised? And give the opportunity to both the authorities and the police and to the port to tell them: "Children, you are not certified. Go away.’ Here in Mytilini, Minister, NGOs with solidarity and other elements, known throughout the Mytilini society, co-organise the trading. The entire flow is at a particular point, where there is an illegally hosted area of migrants, occupied area of the Greek state, the former PIKPA. That's right. And can I tell you something? The government's attitude is unprecedented. I wish Mr. Dritsas was here too, to apologize for his stubborn statement. On the next day of the arrest, Mr. President, it takes out the Ministry of Maritime Communication, not from the Port website, which all the provisions of the Minister enter, but from the inactive website of the Ministry of Shipping, so that the difference can be seen, and it says: "We ask for understanding from any citizen of solidarity that has suffered suffering because of their involvement in events, which for none of us is pleasant." The prosecutors are indicting charges and the Minister is asking for understanding? And then they tell me they don't have anything to do with this circuit? Politics get away from these weights, conflict with these bad interests, and we will be next to you to support a rationalisation of the situation. We have a harder language and we will have a harder language, because we believe your responsibilities are very large, and we do not think that conditions like Assisted or Piraeus cannot perpetuate. I have one more word to say, why did you leave me a question marker? With what you said, do you mean that in Idothe, a new hot spot will be created? Because you told us you were putting order. Until the day before yesterday, you said you'd empty it. Today you're saying you're putting order. Who's going to take responsibility? Until yesterday you said we didn't take responsibility, because we don't want to be hot spot. Did politics change to that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u64	Forgive me. A lot of things have been said. Everyone wants a lot of time. You're badly informed and I want to say that it can support obsession. For example, you refer to the former PICA as a place they arrived. The ex-PICA is inland. He has no access to the sea. The former PICA in Mytilini - precisely because we are watching things closely - is accused of having spent five hundred thousand, he cured three hundred seventy-five people only. This isn't about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u65	But it's next to the airport. I've visited it many times, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u66	We've been there several times. I've been with Schultz. I've been with everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u67	It's next to the sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u68	Well, Mr. Varvichiotis, that makes no sense. I'm telling you, you're wrong. I'm not telling you anything else about this. In Idolome - so there's no misunderstanding - there's a class coming in. "Graduate" does not mean that anything will be done in Idolite except to dissolve Idomeni. We are simply saying that in order to disperse Idomen, this must be done in order. It has to be done by stepping up checks, in a step-by-step way. We have consulted foreigners, who have had their respective problems and their police and immigration directorates. There's a plan. I think Mr. Georgiotis will admit that something has changed lately in Idomeni. You might say: slow. I'll say it didn't happen before, but something changes and we'll see results. I'll tell you something else to get this over with. Do not involve NGOs with NGOs who will get money from the European Union. It wasn't up to us. We fought too hard in tea mys and in the Prime Minister's Summers the money to be given to the Greek state. Because they had no money and had money in the EKO, which gives it to NGOs, they helped us by giving the EKO's money, which can only go to NGOs. They are internationally recognised NGOs. It's eight. We have no intervention in this. We didn't want to. Tomorrow we have the meeting. We have put three things as a state, which have been accepted: First of all, that these NGOs will "walk" on state planning. They're not gonna do whatever they want. Secondly, that we want at least 70% of the recruitments from Greece and we want at least 60% of their markets to be from Greece. This has been accepted by the European Commission. It wasn't up to us. What was up to us was those three remarks that we are going to pursue. But they are internationally known organisations. It has nothing to do with the others you rightly say about them. I don't know what I'm leaving uncovered now. It's too much of a deal. I'll see you again. I just want to show you that in the islands now, those who work have cartels approved by the Greek state. This will be done, Mr. Varvichiotis, everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u69	I wish! You're a little late, but I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Following the seventh question under number 707/28-3-2016, Mr.Piraeus I, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Member of the European Parliament, with regard to the role of NGOs in dealing with the refugee and immigration problem. Please, Mr Katsafad, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question has been tabled since 11 March. Unfortunately, however, you see that nothing has changed. I would like you to give us the list, to table it in the Minutes, as you committed yourself to a previous question by the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis. You said that by 15 March you would have set up an integrated system for the certification of non-governmental organisations. I act, live, and deal with Piraeus. Mostly, however, I live, Minister. The situation that we are talking about today in Piraeus, with the action of non-governmental organisations and solidarity, has nothing to do with what you mentioned in your answer to Mr Varvitsiotis' question. I do not say that, based on an opposition tactic, if you like. The porters themselves say so. He said so, the port precinct. I would like to confirm and would like to see a clear answer from you - but it will be yours - to the unacceptable event two months ago in Mytilini, where fellow Members went and defended a 'non-governmental organisation', which, from what was revealed, illegally transported to our country. I would finally like to know who they are who make up non-governmental organisations, how many and what they are, what money you have decided to give them and what work they will do. Because the absence of the state, at least for Piraeus, is a given, Minister, both in health care and elsewhere. I would like to ask you something else, on this occasion. Because it is not just national security issues that may arise, because of course the purpose of my question and Mr Varvitsiotis is to clarify the day from the wheat. Clearly, we believe in the work of non-governmental organisations and the great contribution they have in this crisis. But we mean the real non-governmental organisations. You know, it is no coincidence that even today, apart from issues of national security, as Mr Varvitsiotis said, with the unacceptable phenomena that have taken place at our border with Skopje and with the fact that we have called on NATO to guard our maritime borders, we also have issues of economic importance. For the fifth week the railway line is now closed. Some people came out and said it was open. But today, Minister, at the moment we're talking, it's closed. All these people are urging them. In these'some' - at last - we must put a stop, Minister. Because the country must survive, it must continue. It must have a humanitarian hand for all these people who have been afflicted and who have come from their countries, but we must also ensure the interests of our country. The solidarity and some non-governmental organisations which have proved, Mr Minister, are that all they care about is to create a mess, which is negative for our country, in relation to the image it presents outwards. I would like to remind you of the incident in Chios, with those who dipped into the sea and took the port to collect them, when we went to implement the agreement that we had made. At some point, I think it's all over. And there you must show strong political will, regardless of whether they were your friends in the past or you want to maintain a relationship with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Catafados, what I said before is true. I would like to add that it is wrong to mix different things. Piraeus and Idomeni are not the same as the others. They're not state structures. I must say that there - apart from a great deal of help - is chaos. In Piraeus it is easier to control, precisely because Piraeus is a state. It was harder on Assassin. Starting this thing, the line opens, and it won't close again, Mr. Katsafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u74	Now that we're talking, it's closed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u75	She was closed, she reopened, she'll be closed again and she'll be reopened. You can come, if you want, and see the plans that I tell you that they have been made at an international level, precisely so that we do not have bloodshed, which does not suit anyone. You won't be convinced, I understand. And I have no reason to convince you, I have reason to help you keep the line open. So that doesn't make any sense. I also want to tell you that the incident you mention is a way of presenting things. I watched television and said: 'Environmentals have dived...'. There were three of them, Mr. Katasafandos. They were arrested in a quarter and left the ship. Don't fall into a panic that won't lead us anywhere. On the other hand, I can accept without agreeing, in the context of a well-measurable criticism or criticism necessary for an opposition, that what we are doing now should have done it a month ago. Our view is that we couldn't do it a month ago. It's control. We're judging on this. You're judging. But at this stage that we are making a great deal of effort, we want to be together. Make any criticisms you want. We want to be together. Also, in Mytilini with SYRIZA Members, you would obviously not want a Minister to take a stand on a case that is in court. It's the right of anyone to defend something. I have no reason to place myself in this thing. When something's in court, there's gonna be judged who was right and who didn't. So that's not what we should put on either. They'll show things over there and it might seem that the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Migration was right and the five MPs of SYRIZA were wrong. I hope - and I am deeply convinced - that it will not seem the opposite. But it's a trial in progress. You are a congressman, you are in Parliament. I don't know the procedures very well. Respect for independence of powers determines both of us. Finally, we are making a very great effort. What we did on the islands, what we've done in the camps we're building, will be imposed. It takes time. It takes time internationally. They're not inventions of mine. There are scientific studies, there are such things. They'll be done. You might accuse us that we did it late and we'd blame you for it if you did it, we'd have blood. There's nothing coming out that way. We both want the situation cleared up, to help clear the situation. In this sense, I consider your speech to be very positive. You judge me and I judge some points. But this means that the government and Critical Opposition agree - by disagreeing and putting each other in a position of responsibility for what has happened - that the situation needs to be cleared up. It'll clean up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u76	Mr Katzafadou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u77	Thank you again, Mr President. Look, Minister, as regards the fact that there are some delays, as you said, which we can blame you on, and you can tell us that unfortunately it was an unpredictable situation and that it was huge the size of the humanitarian crisis, we were not the ones who agreed to obligations far greater than our boot. It was the Prime Minister who committed himself to the European Union and put in a timetable in which he said he would implement it. At the same time, however, ministers of this government and MPs went out here and said that this was not happening. So you ran behind your tail. We were therefore not the ones who committed ourselves to some things in Europe which were not done in the time that you had committed, at least what you had committed. From there on, I don't personally blame you for bringing some ideas in relation to a part of SYRIZA. But obviously you can understand that, when there is the view and when the previous Minister in the position you are in, he has voted against part of the agreement that you have presented to us and which you have asked us to vote on, it is a political view, Minister. That's who we condemn. That's what we're working on. That's what we say. She's refreshing. It gives the opportunity to non-governmental organisations, to those who do not do this social work that they must do, and to the people of Europe. She gives the handles and inducements to have these problems. And there are serious problems, Minister, because, as I heard last Friday at the hot spot of the Ioannina in Katsica, the five ghosts inside, since the solidarityrs raised up all these illegal immigrants and refugees who were there, were forced to leave the camp. And of course, here's not the Minister of National Defence to tell us what orders those ghosts had. Because, you know, under the Constitution, it's forbidden to engage the Army in what it has to do with the citizens. But we got him involved. So what I'm telling you, Minister, is that you have to have a clear political will to do with all those who wear the cloak of humanism and serve other interests. And these other interests that serve affect not only our country nationally, but also economicly. The railway line of Islam - I'm telling you again - at the moment we're talking, it's closed. There is no doubt about that. He opened up for a very short time today. And it is very nice to talk about tax evasion, about development measures and all of this, but to ask ourselves how we safeguard the interests of the Greek taxpayer for the self-evident. There is no country in the world, Mr President and Minister, where its main railway line, as far as its products are concerned, is closed. There is no country in the world where its central port has become a camp. That's the responsibility. That is why we are next to you, to help them, but free from ideologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u79	It's very easy to blame each other for ideas. I would like to say that I could find very easy ideas in the field of Officership, in relation to poor conditions for refugees and immigrants, in relation to being excluded from the Dublin Treaty, because we were accused of torture on immigrants. That doesn't make any sense anymore. It doesn't make any sense. It's another phase now. It's too easy to make reasons. Also, as far as the rail line in Idomenis is concerned, I would say that Kalei, Mr Katsafados, opened and closed. Calais is France's connection to England. For seven years he was opening and closing. Idiot will open and never close unless something terrible and terrible like this happens again. Today, Idomen is open. Maybe this afternoon he'll close again. Tomorrow it'll be reopened. It can be closed again at noon. It'll be reopened. And he's gonna stay open now. But don't say that's not happening anywhere. I mentioned Calais, France's main trade connection with England. For seven years it's been opening and closing. He's getting beaten, he's not falling, he's tearing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u80	How long did he stay open for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. Varvichiotis, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u82	How long does it close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u83	And for days it's been closed, Mr. Katasafandos. That's not easy. In any case, the way that has been chosen is that. It's a way to work. We'll all be judged on this. To conclude, I say that it is well known that the Army is not forbidden to be involved with a mandate from the political leadership in times of crisis. This is how it mixes in this case. We are happy about the military involvement and we want this to continue. It is a peaceful contribution of the Army to resolving the crisis. It is done in all European countries, in all European democracies. The history that exists in our country in relation to dictatorships and other issues is now far behind. We're in another town. SYRIZA didn't bring it. SYRIZA found it. I think it makes no sense to have such a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Before we move on to the next topical question, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the Kranea Elassonas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We must tell you that you are attending the special sitting of parliamentary scrutiny, during which Members - so there is no plenary in Parliament - come with specific questions to which the relevant ministers are replying. This sitting is called parliamentary scrutiny. We move to the eleventh, with number 763/8-4-2016, a topical question for the second question of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgantas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the Hershua Open Structure. Please, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we're staying in refugee. Today you see that you have your honor. I shall refer to another dimension and, to do so, I shall use an expression that the Prime Minister first used and we have heard it all and now entered our daily vocabulary, the word 'equal distribution' of refugees in European countries. We heard this word three to four months ago. I, as a Member of the Kilkis, come to this Chamber today once again to say that the equal distribution of refugees and migrants and the Greek area. Kilkis became known for Idomeni, for this uncomplicated and informal refugee and migrant camp, about twelve thousand people today. It has not been known, however, that in Kilkis there are two largest organized camps in the country, in Hersos and in Nea Kavala Polykastros, each one of them of three thousand nine hundred people right now. So, we have eight thousand more in one county. Along with the twelve thousand make us twenty thousand. And along with the thousands of five hundred who are in the “ECO” office, more than twenty thousand refugees and immigrants in a county of eighty thousand permanent residents. My question today, Minister, has to do with Hershus' camp for this reason. I do not think there will be any other case in Greece in the camp with about three and a half thousand refugees next to a five hundred and six hundred inhabitants settlement. This is a settlement of which the residents showed an excess of solidarity at the beginning of this case, but at the moment there is an objective impossibility to continue to live with this large number of refugees next to them, just 100 meters from the edge of the village. They have their needs and they have to make their moves. At the moment, local society is on a marginal footing with this unbearable burden and can no longer cope with it. It seeks solutions and requires the decommissioning of the camp initially and then, for the good, I think, of the refugees and also of the people - because it was a solution that you found, I think, in exceptional circumstances, but now that it is time to plan, you have to rethink it - that this camp in Hersos does not continue to work. That's what I had to say in my first place. I have other issues I wish to raise in the second, Minister. I am anxiously awaiting your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u87	I do not know how common it is in parliamentary control, but I fully agree with Mr Georgioda. I don't have to see anything about what you're saying. I would like to stress on this occasion that the people of Kilkis, municipal authorities, local government, volunteers, local NGOs, who have been built there and controlled, have given their souls to this. I also want to tell you that, when everyone proposed the islands of Nobel, I proposed Idomeni. Idomen and the surrounding area had the full burden of immigration, without taking the glory, what is said about the island soul and all that. The Macedonians there did not fall short of the islanders. And the stress they went through in Idomeni - and here I can talk to you about both the Mayor of Paionia and the Coordinator of Idomeni and the Hersos - was for four, i.e. it was the burden of Mytilini, Leros, Kos and Samos. We must recognise to this people what the island plus something. Mr. Georganta, to be specific, I can't promise you right now that Hersso will be reduced. I can promise you that after two to two and a half months this will start unless there are emergencies. I can ask the people in Hersso to be patient. It's not an option for a permanent camp. I want to believe that. if there are no emergencies - because, you know, that's multifactorial - after six months this situation in Hersso won't exist. I'm trying, because I have an emotional commitment with these people there. And I'm talking about the Macedonians in Kilkis, but mostly there, around Idomeni, I've been there so many times and I've seen this thing. I know what they're up to. We have an eye on them more than other places. Make us proposals to improve the situation. I would very much like to be able to tell the people of Hersus "I recognize the effort to the people of Kilkis, in one month I will take you a thousand". I won't. I hope that after a two-month period I will be able to begin to lighten these structures. You're putting an issue on the Army. And that's where I agree with you. I believe that the existence of the Army - I said before - as a presence especially for Macedonia is something that is very important, gives a sense of greater certainty and pride to the inhabitants and gives a sense of order and respect to the refugees. Therefore the Ministry's intention, with responsibility for immigration, is to say that until the end the Army should have a natural presence in Kilkis, Macedonia. So your noisies and hard questions will help to achieve this, to help us, that is, to demonstrate that need. The Army cannot, of course, continue to deal with the refugee problem, but at this critical stage, I fully agree with you in this critical area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u88	After the Minister's agreement, would you like the floor again, Mr Georgioda?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u89	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u90	All right, you got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u91	We want ratification of the agreement! Minister, I would like to begin with the satisfaction of understanding that Hersso really can't stay. It's got a certain time horizon. It's been an emergency service. You will allow me to say this. You said that after two and a half months, the decommissioning will begin unless exceptional circumstances arise. Even exceptional circumstances arise, Minister, there are other parts of Greece - I have to say it - which should put back on all this. Kilkiss is on it. We're not saying that Kilkis will have any structures. I think that it is nonetheless your bet, and as a bet of the whole Parliament, and as a bet of the country that Ensembled within the next few days, should be over in the few weeks. This must happen for all of us, for the image of the country. After that, the rest of the eight to ten thousand left in Kilkis, to have the feeling of fairness among the inhabitants, so that they can actually continue to embrace this effort, Hersso will have to be especially, precisely because it is close to a very small settlement, to get rid of it and then to shut down. The exceptional circumstances were in the first phase justified in a government in which nothing like this had happened. Now I think the design must exist. In this design it can't continue to be the Kilkis in. I will, of course, agree with what you have agreed on, that the presence of the Army in Kilkis centers at this time, the short time that these spaces remain in operation, is necessary. My concern in this part of my question is about the regulation which is in place in the latest asylum legislation, which allows hosting centres and institutions of the 'civil society'. I don't know what the legislator had in mind, I don't know what that means. I, with the particular nature of Kilkis, who is near the border - this centre in a straight line is three kilometres from the Skopje border - I want the presence of the Army, which in many ways strengthens the security of citizens. Minister, I think you owe it, the government owes it to Kilkis, who is undoubted - you must admit it, and you must admit it and everyone - for many months has lifted a very heavy burden. It is time now that the remarks have ended, the clarifications are over and it is time for the initiatives and decisive actions to take Kilkis as well as what is related to decongestion from the total presence of refugees throughout the prefecture and in Idomeni and Hersos and New Kavala. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr Muzala, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u93	I have no disagreement with you. Allow me, because it is multifactorial, to try to safeguard the government, but also the people of Kilkis and Hershus, and all of this from failures, because I really don't know if it falls - let us say - a huge city or if the deal is blown up in the air, what the situation will be. So I'm holding a policy known to you. What I am saying, namely, is happening and I am not saying things that I am not sure can be done. I say, therefore, that for the next two months, I cannot guarantee a reduction. I can guarantee the greatest possible care. Bomb us with requests. I'm also saying that in planning the Hersso will disappear. There's no longer any Hersso in the long run. I also say that the people of Kilkis, Idomenos, have been wronged, has sworn the burden without glory. It would be nice if he had neither the burden nor the glory of someone, but it is a pleasure to have all this burden and no one would say about the Macedonian people, say, while it says about the island. I'm an islander, but this thing is wrong. Finally, for the Army, I would like to say that the administration is not going to agencies or such. Command until the bill can function, maneuver the departments and all these things, it'll be set, it'll be three forms. For a while, we've counted for a month. Army or police or interior department through Immigration Policy Department. Whoever it is, the presence of the Army must exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. We continue with the twelfth under number 726/1-4-2016 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the removal of Greek citizenship from ex-SRF. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u95	Minister, I would like to raise an extremely important issue and thank you very much for the full information we have had, because I have also followed the previous questions from the New Democracy colleagues, in relation to the process of centres and migrants that we have to manage as government at this time. We must, however, raise a very important issue which has come to my attention and arisen in recent years. I considered it appropriate, after studying other elements, to bring it to Parliament under parliamentary control. As we all know, during the mid-90s, using the beneficial provisions of Law 2173, many of the ex-Sustrians acquired Greek citizenship, Podo, Armenia, etc. It seems that citizenship has also acquired a number of people without Greek pontian origin, who have produced false certificates. A series of withdrawals of Greek nationality to Greek counterparts from the countries of the former Soviet Union residing in Thrace and in northern Greece has been observed. So there have been complaints, if you want, in the House and in me. The problem that is being created today has to do with the retrospective punishment of the Greek administration that takes away citizenship not only from those who have probably produced false certificates for their national origin but also from some of the problems created by the administrations of the former Soviet Union, wrong papers or wrong dates. So it wasn't their responsibility. In my dentistry, I'm going to report more details that I have in my papers. Mr Minister, you ask: why has there been an increase in the revocation of Greek nationality over the last two years, causing innumerable problems to several Greek indigenous people? What measures do you intend to take in order to remove the bureaucratic problems that lead to possibly wrong revocations of nationality? Are you willing to listen to those whose supporting documents are insufficient in order to enable them to prove their validity? What about those wrongly losing citizenship and how will they be compensated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u97	Mr Kammene, your question brings us to the knowledge that, you know, all of us being absorbed by the stress of the refugee and all these things, we are often left behind in the effort we have to do to keep a balance with the already existing immigrants here who, as you know, are too many. I confess I didn't know that at all, I put on and looked into it. They're forged and the revocation is done automatically. We have two thousand nationalitys given, about fifty decisions. Thousands of nine hundred and ninety two nationalities have been allocated. So the number is small. There may be more to come out. We give them the possibility of appealing, or if they provide new evidence that there is no counterfeiting, it is withdrawn. At the moment, we are going to make a circular of the Ministry of Interior, so that there can be a uniform treatment of such cases in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mr. Kammenos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I understand the priorities, and that is why I was a little late to bring the matter up. However, it happens in rural areas in Macedonia and Thrace, where the relatives we have invited them here have settled, that there are huge problems for these people's lives as well. We must know the House and the honourable President, who are before us here, that we have given these people land and house to build and are now captives of the Greek public. Their land has not been legitimized. They live illegally in the homes. Let's go get them homes. They've been living in arbitrary for twenty years, but that's another matter I'll see with the Tree. But imagine the same people by mistake in the Greek state, in all the pressure he has, for the second and third time, or to expel them from their homeland again. I can't hunt the Greek blood. I would like to pay attention to some of them - Greeks - who have not made any mistaken fiction of documents or anything else, not to take them captive again, because we have a big demographic problem. We must support Thrace, Macedonia and the islands. In Macedonia and Thrace people have been inhabited who came mainly from Pontus. Also in the south of Athens, in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, we have huge problems. I would like the state to be careful about its management. With all due respect, I will let you see some proposals - they are about a page and a half - simple things, Bullet points, not something difficult - that I have seen with some people, so that we can undo the situation, because it is fascinated in my understanding and one case - I do not judge whether it is fair or unfair or not, as all this is far from me - a man who makes a hunger strike. He's a Greek and he was removed from his papers. We should be careful, because I will give you another example. A family lives in Greece and citizenship has been removed for some reason. The daughter is outside Greece and cannot return to see her parents because she will be arrested. These are sensitive family issues. We have to protect the family. These people - I repeat - have been afflicted by the Greek public as anyone else. We brought them from the Soviet Union, which had been through very difficult, for a better life in Greece, because they are Greek, and here we treated them in the worst way. I think that the state, the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks - and you, Mr Minister and we - should do what is necessary. We have to be law-enforcement. But, please, we must ensure that we do not again make them oppressed, unhappy and homeless. Mr President, I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. Mr. Muzala, here, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u101	I have listened very carefully to you on a subject that I did not know as well as I probably should. I would invite you with great pleasure to arrange a meeting with the Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mr Papadopoulos, who deals with these issues, so that we can see the proposals that we can incorporate in the circular. I would like to inform you that now my partner has informed me that the issue of the family of suicide has been solved by an assignment. However, it remains what you say. We need to heal it. Please help us. Come with your suggestions to discuss them with the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u102	The tenth third under number 724/31-3-2016 is to be discussed with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds and the failure to implement the Greek citizenship law. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I have heard your other answers. I'm really gonna try not to overlap. Since I tabled the timely question to date, many things have changed. The agreement of 18 March has come. We also have the tragic events in Brussels, as well as the developments that have taken place in Greece. Because I have listened to you, then, we will go to crucial questions relating to citizenship, but also to immigration policy. Minister, we are not criticising or, at least, the Democratic Reconciliation at the moment is not only criticising delays, but more about political choices. It was a political choice, as you have said, to have Idomeni or Piraeus. It's a political choice. It is also a choice for you to have today the Greek, which we did not talk about, but I take the opportunity because it is very important, with six thousand people. So what I would say to you is this: we had the opportunity - and I have no estimates - and we visited with Mrs. Gennamata last week in Piraeus and we saw a situation which is within the limits of the humanitarian and health crisis. We visited the Greek, and even we spoke with the four mayors of the region, who are listening to our position today, so that we could have an image of people who live, Mr. Minister, without power, without water, with children washing at sea and crossing the Poseidon in Piraeus without the state structures. Same goes for Idomen. At the same time, Minister, I wanted to tell you something else. There has been a lot of discussion before about non-governmental organisations and solidarity. I think that the clear political position on your part today would be to be seen as being that, because many of the groups of solidarity intervene in a political way and aim in an activist manner, the law solves this issue. We cannot all put them in the same bag and consider non-governmental organisations and solidarity to be the same thing. But, Minister, we do not yet have any information on who they were, which led people from the side passage to Idomeni, in order to create the problem with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and also what happened with all these incidents, which have so far been mentioned. I'm closing up with this, and I'm going to talk about my denology. There is beyond that - I understand the Ministry, but it cannot continue - and the Ministry has a very low production of legislation. We need to see what is going on with the issues of citizenship, which I will be returning to my second language. Thank you very much, Mr President, and Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Papatheodorou, what I have repeatedly said is that Idomeni, Piraeus and the Greek were our choice. I have said that in Idomeni, Piraeus, in Greek, in second objective, it was our choice not to install state structures, to have the least possible intervention to prevent permanent settlements being created in places that we did not want. In Piraeus, it is precisely because of the importance of the port - it is a high security target - that we have much more Police and port than the police who would be entitled to be in Idomeni. We had to do that. Someone could blame us. You should take - and I ask you to take this into account - into account that within forty-two days we have built thirty-five thousand accommodation places and the next fifteen to twenty days we will have another twenty thousand accommodation places. I'm not trying to justify problems. I'm trying to tell you that these problems will be solved. Already since Greek, we're starting a transfer. I don't know how to tell you when it's going to be empty. Our goal is to clear out quickly and not to refill the arrival center, which is this most unpleasant part, what you probably saw. He's got a big ugliness inside of him. Piraeus also believes that in the coming days it will be empty, if not completely, there will be few left, and Idomeni will have started. We'll be here after Easter, we'll be rejuvenated. But I want you to bear in mind that the Greek state from the Asia Minor Campaign and then had no institutional memory "creating hospitality". We built thirty-five, thirty-seven thousand seats, and we make another twenty. Finally, this design, thirty-seven thousand places, sketchy, like Hersus, is more complicated, such as Katsikas, for the first part, to deal with the crisis. In the second part, in the midst of what will be the form of chaos, everyone will be recorded, everyone will get its legal status. The camps of thirty-five, forty-five, will become fifteen, twenty, divided into areas, in the vicinity of asylum services, near the police, with more human conditions, and for them as well as for the dignity and security of our people. So you're right. But there's a plan. We try too much and elsewhere we make it better and elsewhere worse. We don't deny the image you're giving us. This image is tearing us apart and we are trying to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u106	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, do you know where we disagree? However, we do not disagree with finding the situation, because the problem we have at the moment is that what is missing from Piraeus and Idolome is not just the state structure. When we say, for our part, it was an option, we mean that someone has pointed out the area of the former airport for people to go. They didn't go alone. I also want to tell you that when we talk about the presence of the state, as regards the Greek, we must mean the one patrol car that is parked outside the gate on Poseidon. If we are actually talking about the presence of a state beyond the Port in Piraeus - which would in any case be the Port in Piraeus - I would say to you that we have a situation where we have children sleeping on the road. Because when some leave Kavala, Minister - and that is something I saw with my own eyes - and come to Piraeus at night, you understand that this is something that constantly recycles the problem. Why? Because the question was about design. We know that in the areas where there had at first been a question about whether and since a camp is to be set up, the plan has been frozen, because we do not know at this time where and on what terms the new camps will be created. And when we talk about camps, Minister, do we want to solve the problem only for the summer season, before us, so that we can have tents? Because you understand that, because we're talking about the same things, you're not going to build hosting places everywhere, like in Myrsini, that was ready. The rest of the spaces, at least those which are made - with the exception of Scaramaga - are with tents and without even the basic conditions for health care and even the protection of public health. In Greek many speak of cases of scabs and malaria, as in Piraeus. And those who talk about them are neither unrelated nor politicians, but doctors. So you understand that what we have in an area where things are constantly getting worse, I think it is not a matter of delay and only a question of bad policy. Minister, I think the situation has overcome the powers and abilities of this government. I'll close with a question, which I think you should see. Since the resolution of No.4332/2015 we have a number of arrangements for citizenship to be attributed to the second generation foreigners. To date, what we are observing - and we have requested the relevant information from the Ministry - is the disappointing development of the process. Apart from the fact that the paradox can be 100 euros, the cost of access, which a third-country national can have, to have the Greek nationality, can now exceed 2,000 euros when you ask him to go home and have the documents. It is also the procedure followed to produce all kinds of evidence, which is at all times completely different. It's administratively frozen at the Ministry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in a few seconds. My question in this regard was that, from the outset, we have had growing protests from interested parties, and so far, there has been no communication on the administrative settlement of this issue. I think that on the refugee issue we are also going to create a question of saturation of the number of people who want and can take Greek citizenship. There is the procedure, there is legislation, legislation, and there are no services to welcome and manage these requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u109	Mr Papatheodorou, with regard to the last issue and so as not to leave on the others, accepting the shortcomings I still have in matters, which concern policy on all these things that are happening in calm conditions, I would like to say that we have a thousand nine hundred and twenty-two decisions on the acquisition of Greek citizenship. There is no question of further simplification of procedures and we are trying to achieve what you are asking for, rather, to be decentralised so that costs can be reduced. I don't know how much that covers you, but that's what I can tell you right now. I want to go to the refugee again. You're wrong with us. We are not describing the situation, we are intervening in the situation. It's not a limitation. Forty-five days, Mr. Papatheodorou, thirty-five plus thousands of seats. In the next twenty days, another twenty thousand seats. Two thousand, two and a half thousand are the houses. The scenes are scenes of polar colds, which we have taken from abroad, and we have at the same time another five hundred scenes, which are terrible and which we are about to change. It's a big war, Mr. Papatheodorou. It's a very big war. The Army is mobilizing, engineers are mobilizing, the police are mobilizing. It's too hard. I am one of those who assume responsibility, and I have to tell the House that they should have been ready beforehand. But I want you to understand, you've been in governments, you've been in the state mechanism long before me: forty-five days or forty-two - I don't remember exactly - thirty-five thousand positions, which improve all the time. For the next twenty days, another twenty thousand seats. There's been a huge effort. We'll make it. A large part of your criticism may have a good headlines, but in total, I think that this injustice exists. We are not describing a situation, we are intervening. We're trying very hard to change it, we're gonna make it, and I know that then you - not only then, but now you're helping - you're gonna help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. And following this question, we move to the first with number 773/11-4-2016 topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the exception of the Municipality of Volos from the Programme of Social Benefits of Work. In this timely question, the Deputy Minister will answer Mr Antonopoulou. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would first like to convey to you the climate of intense reaction and the sense of injustice, which is recorded in Volos society after your decision to exclude the Municipality of Volos from the programme of public works. We have all seen from press releases and the reactions, not only from opposition MPs but also from government MPs that the selection of the fifty of an ATT, which are part of the public-private labour programme, has finally been based on 2011 figures, a year of general census, which actually offers a lot of data. I have no intention, Minister, to question the methodology used to select the fifty municipalities. What we are criticising you with, and with which we disagree, is that you have probably not updated this information, because Volos has been in a very difficult situation in the last year with a dramatic increase in unemployment. This proves this and the OAED data. The registered unemployed of the Municipality of Volos to OAED at the end of 2014 were eleven thousand four hundred and eight. In late 2015, the registered unemployed of the Municipality of Volos were around sixteen thousand. In other words, we are talking about a medium-term increase, which is, in fact, 16 thousand four hundred and eight, for an increase of 40% in a single year. We cannot understand how when the SYRIZA Government says that this year unemployment has all been reduced by a percentage point and a significant one. In Volos, according to OAED data, we have an increase of 40% registered unemployed and of them six to seven thousand years 2014 and 2015 are long-term unemployed, i.e. over 12 months. So such an area is excluded and fifty other municipalities are integrated. Also, Minister, which I am sure you know, I would like to point out to you that the years of the crisis, from 2010 to 2014, while unemployment across the country has increased mid-borderly to 17.8%, in the Municipality of Volos, the increase in unemployment over the years has been 27.8%, i.e. 10 percentage points above. With what figures - and since these were even questioned by government MPs - and why did you not make those parameters public, which led you to be chosen by the municipalities? Under no circumstances, Mrs Antonopoulou, we do not support the fact that these programmes must come to meet the needs of the municipalities. But when we talk about a city of sixteen thousand registered unemployed, about seven thousand, are long-term unemployed, we believe that this municipality should be included in this programme. In my dentistry, I'm going to quote more evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying we haven't ruled out any municipalities. All municipalities - as I have repeatedly said and wondered why we insist on using the same arguments that do not apply - will join within 2016. A project is pilot, precisely because we are setting certain criteria which I will testify to you. I refuse to accept that there are no criteria that they have chosen. The criteria are uniform, the criteria have not been met. It is horizontal and uniform for all municipalities. Well, let me say two things to get this straight. The first is that all municipalities join. The invitation for the seventeen first municipalities starts in May. The thirty-four will then join immediately, i.e. by September, all municipalities will have joined. What all this dust that has risen has not been understood by me, but, in any case, to continue with the second point I want to develop. The second point concerns the criteria. The criteria are three, to be clear. The first criterion is what happened in 2011, because we are not only in census time, but one year after the first memorandum and three years after the 2008 crisis that caught the whole world and Europe. So we see that this differentiation has a local footprint in 2011. In 2011, it is the only time we can say that we have the most valid data on the unemployment rate. The rest of the information we have is about how many people are registered but we never know the unemployment rate in the municipality, because there are no figures from there, that is, there are no workers and the unemployed, data used in the denominator, when we make the unemployment rate. But what do we have from OAED? We have exactly what you have said before, the recording of all the unemployed, the absolute number, and the participation in these unemployed of the long-term unemployed. So we can make that percentage. So we come and look both in 2011 and in 2015 the percentage of the long-term unemployed, our second criterion, namely, and the third criterion, is the increasing trend of the long-term unemployed from 2011 to 2013. Looking at these figures for the country, we say who are the most vulnerable municipalities and we get the average in the country for these three things I mentioned, we say plus 3% and we catch after the municipalities that are above this limit. For your own municipality to which you referred and which I repeat is part of September, these elements that we have shown us could not be integrated. The score didn't allow him to join. The statistical programme told us that this municipality does not fulfil the three and on these three criteria, the first two and then the third one we put in. So I would like to tell you and to assure you that, given that all municipalities are integrated, the reason why we have made a pilot project is this. This program is changing. It's not five months but it's eight months. We won it with a lot of trouble. The second thing that changes is that on the fifth day we have upgraded skills, digital skills in particular, and seminars that will be attended by the unemployed who have joined on entrepreneurship, that is, business, and social entrepreneurship. So let's see how the OAED and the municipalities can work together, how electronically we collect the necessary data, we had to try this experimentally in some municipalities. By drawing the conclusions from these pilot municipalities, then we come and apply this new generation of programmes to all municipalities. So whatever evidence you can give me, I will tell you that there are corresponding elements in other municipalities and that horizontal and uniform used these three parameters we have used and on the basis of them we are walking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too. Mr Buquoir, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u115	Minister, I'm waiting for the evidence you promised me you'd let me know. I would point out, however, that once your choice has received such a question, even by government MPs, you should have made this information public in order to make noise even worse. From that point on, you know, the question I asked you is not about what you will do, but about what you are doing to date, in other words about the fact that the Municipality of Volos was excluded and that is why I want an answer. You told me that the evidence advocated this decision. We would therefore like to be convinced, through the evidence, that it is indeed the case. You accepted that the dominant role played the 2011 figures. But don't you think, Minister, that's too far away now? We are in 2016, because of the crisis we are going through times of extremely dense and the next general census is no longer. In other words, the 2021 census is from 2016 as well as the 2011 census. Of course, you have also referred to two other elements. I fear, Minister, that you have not taken into account some of the latest developments in the Municipality of Volos and, indeed, the deindustrialisation wave that lived in the last year. In 2015 and in the first months of 2016 - they were unprecedented in our region - two major industries suspended their operation. "COCA COLA" was transferred to Schematari - an industry employing hundreds of employees - "IMANDA" ceased its operation - another three hundred employees - "VIS" cut its production in one wing, the Anchialos airport which gave many seasonal jobs to local tourism stopped in 2015 the foreign lines, which brought tens of thousands of tourists. I don't know whether your department has included all this evidence. We said we're looking forward to giving us the information on how the choice was made. Something that has a political dimension, Minister. At 12.00 noon on 8 April, a meeting was scheduled under the presidency of the Minister for the Coordination of Government Work, Mr. Flamouraris, and with the participation of the three SYRIZA government MPs to discuss the matter and seek a solution. One hour earlier, your office issued a press release, which spoke of 'pressures' and that 'nothing will change', and you showed both my fellow Members and the Minister who had provoked the meeting. I would like to remind you, too, that your chief minister, Mr Katrugalos, immediately after the announcement of the first OTA group to participate in the programme, said that we need to look again at the issue and in any case he had let it be understood - by means of the Magnesia Members to the Magnesia society - that there is a possibility of redress. I have no reason to doubt that Volos will join in September. For you it may be a short time but for the long-term unemployed of Volos - who do not ask for grace or charity - it is a long time to wait another semester and lose the opportunity of an even eight-month job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u117	Listen to me. The long-term unemployed you know who created them. You created them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u118	He was 40% in Volos in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u119	Please listen to me and don't interrupt. Listen to us. Would you once again come to create, mislead and tell the world what? That you are interested in the unemployed, while we are not interested, and we can easily make decisions that exclude some, allowing others to enter this program. The political pressures you take are understandable. But we, both at local and at any other level, say the following: uniform criteria for all! Nobody has the right to make exceptions because pressure is being exerted and I say this. Like Volos, other municipalities, so other MPs wanted to see their own municipalities join. The answer is there will be programming. Trust us, trust us. We work intensively. We are the ones who are looking at how to save the euro 1 in order to defend the unemployed and not to unjustly spend that money and we have already proved that. So I have to tell you this by closing down. In addition to the information I will submit once again, there is a press release where the information has been communicated. If you are not aware, we can send them back to you. From there on, to conclude, as much as we are pressing, we will move firmly with what we are doing, so that there are no injustices that have been in the past in all these programming for the defence and support of the unemployed. Here we are, and in a reasonable period of time we will determine what we have done. We've earned a good job yet. Since the first day we received, the European Commission and our services have told us that with the programming that existed on this programme by the previous government, it would be the last time that it would have been. We have succeeded not only in maintaining this as a programme and as an intervention to support the unemployed, but in passing from five months to eight months. In addition, we have been able to integrate those actions that are overall supportive, such as advisory, skills upgraded. There are at the moment too many municipalities, who say that it should be done that this festival should be stopped, that we have covered standing and permanent positions. The previous ones did not want to touch it, because there would be local reactions. We understand the following. When we bring equality and uniform criteria, some will be affected. But we will learn to walk together, so that we can help our country out of this deadlock, which has made unemployment from 7% to 27%. So here we are, and we'll see you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u120	However, in Volos it has not been reduced. It's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. We'll have a little break, because because of traffic congestion, the Minister is out of the House. In a few minutes he'll be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u122	The sitting shall be resumed. The second question will be discussed under number 783-12-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to ensure free and quality food and housing for students studying in the Annexes of the University of Patras in Agrini. The Deputy Minister will answer Mrs. Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, and the students in the city of Agrinio, as in the rest of the country, are experiencing huge problems in feeding and housing, which are the result of cuts, budget strangling at universities and TEIs in the country. This situation makes it difficult for children of the populace to complete their studies. It is a shameful cost for the labour families. They cannot meet the rents of 200, 300 euros, especially in the city of Agrinio, where all students are staying in rent rooms, because there is not a single dorm room. All these costs are to be added to the payment of writings, material equipment to attend courses and workshops. Of course, in the annex to the Patras in Agrinio there is a huge problem with regard to feeding. There is a feeding card - obviously the same is happening in the rest of the country - with income criteria and this responsibility has been granted by the university to a private person. Of course, we have huge problems because we have food - from the testimony of the students themselves - of poor quality and small portions. The request of the student movement is timely as never before. Their request is that there should be free feedingstuffs to everyone regardless of economic criteria and that there should also be sufficient funding to ensure this good food quality. Our question - and the students themselves, the students - is. Will there be direct funds from the state budget to solve this huge problem of feeding and housing? I shall refer to the second part of the question of housing. In the city of Agrinio and in other cities, there are also areas of study in the country where children of popular families will be housed. Unfortunately, Minister, and you must know, children of people's families are facing huge problems, until yet - they are still returning to their homes and cannot study underneath this unreasonable cost. We expect a concrete response to these two specific requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u125	I'm sorry, first of all, about the delay. You know that I am consistent with parliamentary control, but the movement does not always allow anyone to count properly. I would like to begin by telling my dear colleague that with the Agrinio departments there is a time-consuming problem. From changes made, these departments first belonged to the University of Ioannina, then became a University of Western Greece, which the project "ATHENA" was abolished and all three departments were left in Agrini, of course included in the University of Patras. I say this because there have been many problems, problems that have been inherited in connection with both feeding and housing. There was no framework fixed in relation to these three sections. I would like to say in general, in order not to create a picture of the danger that the money in the budget has not been cut at all. In other words, while we have cuts in the institutions' operating expenses, we have no cuts in food and housing. As far as feeding is concerned, all students have an income criterion, which I think - and I think you agree too - is too high. It is 45,000 euros, increasing by 5,000 euros after the first child. Nearly all students are fed in a Greece where the annual income of 45,000 euros is not very common. So there's a restaurant, and there's a matter of Patras University, as you know, but that's another conversation. We have already studied the question of the operation of all student restaurants in the social economy, but that is why we need to make a specific framework so that we can implement it. As far as housing is concerned, that is why I referred to the problems of these three sections because they were at one university and when they were in the other, and so the infrastructure for a student centre has not been created. What we're talking about now is the rental of a hotel. However, also the allowance, which reaches a budget for students from country to country at 47 million, which also did not reduce, is for room or home rental benefits for students. It's not much, but it's a 1,000 euros aid, and we're in that direction. What I want to stress - and I will say in my dentistry too - is that we are taking care of students' homes to create where they need to be created, where we need studies from the universities themselves on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u126	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u127	Madam Minister, your own students are disgusting. They're talking in particular. They say about the particular restaurant that the food it provides is a little bit in quantity and very bad in quality. This is the testimony of the students. But I'll see you then. You mentioned the wandering of the schools of Agrinio, from the University of Ioannina to the University of Patras, and it goes on to say. There is another fair request for students. In the Environment and Natural Resources Management Department you know very well that it is in mobilisation - yesterday it was mobilised in Patras - because there is a deterioration of the study. There is a reduction of one year of study and it actually leads them not to have any professional rights. Of course, we are clearly saying that this is the policy of the European Union, which all your governments and your governments serve. Instead of working with rights to the subject they are studying, graduates meet unemployment, perpetual wandering, insecurity. Instead of completing scientific education, it turns into on-line training, to a whole range of skills, with degrees that become ravenous in literality, because that is what happens. Instead of exclusively free studies, unfortunately they become merchandise and students and they become customers, because you are counting all these things, like the previous ones and the European Union itself at costs. This is all because there is a conscious underfunding, regardless of the fact that you said that there is no reduction in budgets. There is, in particular, a serious underfunding of these institutions. And this broadly opens the way for private companies to enter the field of research studies. This direction, as you have mentioned, also exists with the 'Athens' project. This situation, as we say, in particular on the question of housing has an impact on people's families. And don't say, Minister, that there is a rental allowance, because that's not even enough for the 1/5 of the rents that students pay. I would like here to say that in the city of Agrinio, there is a particular proposal from actors in the prefecture and institutions of the city of Agrinio, for the old hospital in Agrinio. The facilities are very good and could with a good plan to grant this building to the Ministry of Education and with little money - that is our opinion, of course, there are also technical issues - to house hundreds of students, unless you have your mind to take the schools from the city of Agrinio. We say clearly - and we know that very well, because we have daily contact with the students - that they are forced and working at the same time to get through, because the vast majority, as I mentioned in my prototype, are children of the people's working families who work in a state of work of the jungle, middle ages. You know very well what it is when young people are forced to work and study. We say that today students must have the focus of demanding their movement to fight for free education that will serve people's needs and not education that will be systematically delivered to the great capital. This is the aim of the students, but we would ask you in your dentistry to answer specifically. Are you thinking of turning the old hospital of Agrinio into a student home, which is now inactive and which is a very good building? Also, do you think there should be intervention in the feeding of students? Because I'm telling you again that food is too little and quality is not good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u128	Before giving the floor to the Secretary-General to answer, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-three students and four educational sessions from the 4th General School of Heraklion. You guys, follow the parliamentary scrutiny session, and in particular the last question tabled by the Member, Mr Moraitis, to the Minister of State, Mr Anagnastopoulou. Since the meeting has been completed, you are lucky and unlucky. Lucky because you see the question but unfortunate because the House is empty, because the Members who have asked have already left and received answers from other ministers. Consequently, the House welcomes you to her last question, which you are following at the moment. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u129	Mr Colleagues, first of all the budget allocated to the University of Patras for the feeding is EUR 2.110,000, which was the same last year. The subject of feedingstuffs is managed by each university. But from the moment that there are reports of evil food and a little food, at the meeting I have with the students, with the Dean of the University, with the Dean of one of the departments on Friday at the Ministry, we will also see this issue. As far as Agrinio Hospital is concerned, I've never had anything like that come from the city of Agrinio. I know very well, because I too am in contact with students, that the students themselves have proposed it for a long time but there has been no such impact on us. If there is, I would be happy - and not only will - to see and see how it is technically possible to resolve this issue, much more than it does not exist in the Ministry's thoughts of moving the sections into another city - and I mean in Patras. On the third point you have raised, that we want to privatise the universities and all of this, I think that not only are you wrong, but it is also a completely wrong impression, which is created because we are one of those who immediately tried to restrain the secondment of universities and TEIs. You know very well that after six years, five hundred IPA members are finally declared for the first time - it is not much, but it is something - and we have already guaranteed and awaited the approval of the State General Accounting Office for other five hundred IPA members, as well as the fact that we hired after a long time, since 2008, a hundred ninety five members of research, special research staff, who were pending their appointment, as well as many others. And with food and housing, we are very closely involved and I have said that the thousands of euros are not much, but they are something, Mr Moratis. We are all of people's families - or some of us - and we know that even this allowance for a people's family is something. I'm not saying it's everything. But what I can assure you is that on Friday there is a meeting at the Ministry and with the students and with the Rector authorities and the Quaestor to see how the issues that we did not create can be resolved, Mr Moraite. Three sections, which go from university to university, created by the University of Western Greece without any programming, without any connection to the place, without any care for either student or anything - and I do not use it as an excuse - I think you understand that from October until today I could not solve them with magic wand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 1 February 2016, Thursday 18 February 2016 and Monday 22 February 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u131	The minutes of Monday 1 February 2016, Thursday 18 February 2016 and Monday 22 February 2016 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-18-S1-commons.u132	With the consent of the House at 20.03 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 April 2016, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House, applications for waiver of immunity from Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
